In the 1930s, when logical positivism became popular, philosophers stopped arguing for
the existence of God.
But starting from the mid-1960s, people became interested in these arguments again.
Most of these arguments fall into three categories.
Ontological arguments for the existence of God, that posits God must exist as a necessary
God.
Cosmological, sorry, I had feedback happening, cosmological arguments for the existence of
God, which posits that God exists as a causal agent of the universe, and theological arguments
for the existence of God, which posits the existence of God as a designer of complex
functionality in the natural world, which looks designed.
Welcome, everybody, today my guest is James Fodor, who is a PhD student in decision, risk
and financial sciences program at the University of Melbourne.
He completed graduate studies in physics and economics at the University of Melbourne,
and a master's degree in neuroscience at the Australian National University.
He also worked as a research assistant in structural biology at Monash University.
Outside of his research, James is interested in science, philosophy, and critical thinking.
Thus today, we'll be discussing the subject of his book, Unreasonable Faith, I hope early,
how William Lane Craig overstates the case for Christianity.
Welcome, James.
It's a pleasure to have you on.
Yeah, thanks, David.
Pleasure to be here.
It's really nice to talk to a fellow Australian.
You're living in Melbourne, is that correct?
Still?
Yeah, that's right.
Yeah, that's where I was born.
It's a good part of the world.
Yeah.
Not the city part, though.
Like, I wasn't born in the city, but...
Well, a lot of people were.
Yeah.
Okay, so, first question, and this is, yeah, the first question is, what are we drinking
today?
Well, I'm rather...
Oh, go ahead.
Yeah, go, go, go.
I'm rather boring.
I don't really drink much other than water, but I do have my vodka bottle here, which
I use for refills, so I might take some of those out of that down there.
And I thought that was such an interesting...
You must know, as a neuroscience major, that you must know that water, hydration, is key
to the brain, right?
So, that's why the water is the key.
So, yeah, so I'm drinking water as well, this first time I've done water, this is cool.
So, I was wondering if you could run us through the Kalam and give us the best-faith interpretation
of William Lynn Craig's Kalam cosmological argument, which is probably the most famous
argument for the existence of God, what do you say, or are there more famous ones?
Well, it's hard for me to say what is sort of famous in the general population.
It's probably the most famous in the apologetics sphere these days.
So, is it...
And your book is...
I got this the other day, and it arrived the other day, and I was like, this is so thick,
I was hoping to be able to get through it, but it is dense, and it's like, you've really
put in the work.
How long did it take you to write this down, to formulate this argument?
I mean, I think about a year spent actually writing.
There was plenty of time spent before then developing different ideas, particularly the
resurrection component, and that took a lot of research.
The Kalam also took a lot of reading, because Craig's written a lot about the Kalam and
related issues, and a lot of that writing.
You think my book is longer, some of those are much, much longer and much, I think, harder
to read.
So, yeah, I mean, a year for the actual writing, but overall project was several years.
I don't even know exactly how to put markers on that.
Do you think that you're probably the most researched in William Lynn, like you've watched
the most William Lynn Craig out of anyone possibly in existence?
Not in terms of watch, because I haven't watched all of his debates.
I've watched many of them, but there are some people who, like he has followed, particularly
Christian following, who watch like literally all of his debates.
In terms of having read his apologetics, I haven't read as much of his theology.
He's written a favorite theology, but in terms of his apologetics, I probably read
the large majority of that.
There's a lot of repetition, so I haven't, again, literally read every bit, but it's
probably up there, yes.
And this is the first book that systematically addresses Craig's apologetic.
So there are books that have addressed parts of it, but there's not been a book that
addresses all of it.
So in that sense, it's the most comprehensive.
So I've never been hugely impressed with the Kalam cosmological argument myself.
My background, obviously, I had, I used to be a fundamentalist Christian, and now I'm
not, however, I don't necessarily get the sense that it's a very strong argument,
however, I'm also not a philosopher.
So I was wondering if you could just lead us down what the Kalam says and then why
maybe people are convinced of it, and then we can go into why you're not convinced
of it.
Does that sound good?
Yeah, sure.
So the Kalam is an argument that attempts to establish only that the universe has a
cause.
So this is something that Craig points out a lot during debates is that the argument,
at least in the narrow version or the strict form, doesn't actually establish that God
exists.
What Craig usually then does is he sort of adds on one or two extra premises to get to
the existence of God.
So I usually like to talk about what I call the extended Kalam, which is not a phrase
that Craig uses.
It's my own terminology, but I just like to include all the elements that actually get
you to God, because that's really why anyone cares about the argument.
So if I talk about it in that way, the argument has, well, three to four
premises, depending on what you want to include.
But the main ones are that the universe began to exist.
Everything that begins to exist has a cause.
And if the universe had a cause, that cause must be a personal being.
And so from those, Craig concludes that the universe was caused by a personal being
and he identifies that with God.
So that's essentially the argument.
And in defense of the first premise that the universe began to exist, Craig
appeals to two different lines of argument.
He appeals to philosophical arguments and he appeals to scientific arguments.
We can talk about some of those in a moment.
In terms of the second premise that everything that begins to exist has a
cause, he largely appeals to sort of the intuitive idea that, you know, things
can't happen without a reason or a cause and you can't just have like
universes popping into being and things like that.
He has less to say about that premise, but he appeals mostly to intuition there.
And in terms of premise three about that, if the universe did have a cause,
it must be a personal cause.
He has two lines of argument for that.
One is basically that, well, it can't be material and it can't be an abstract
object because abstract objects can't cause things and it can't be material
because then it would be part of the universe, but the universe can't cause itself.
And so he says that the only thing left is a personal cause.
So it's kind of by a process of elimination.
He has another argument as well, which relates to the alleged specific unique
powers of libertarian agents, so like disembodied agents, to cause things
without themselves having a cause of that action.
So that's the general thrust of how Craig gets to the conclusion.
Now, one of the reasons that fundamentally I don't think it's a good argument
is because in order to defend all of those premises, he needs to invoke a whole
bunch of extra assumptions, which become progressively more sort of complicated
and intricate the more you dig down into it, which is what I do in my book,
obviously. And I think that it's pretty much impossible for Craig to defend
all of the positions that he wants to because there are internal inconsistencies
that I draw out in my discussion between the defenses that he wants to give
of one premise versus another premise.
Part of those relate to the philosophy of time, which maybe we can talk about
about a bit more that he needs to assume.
I would love to talk about that because I knew a little bit.
That's the one area that I knew a little bit about because of a previous episode
on Deep Drinks. I had someone come and talk about their PhD and they're doing
a, Mark Granado, he's doing a PhD on kind of the arguments around
time with A theory and B theory and like the history of that.
Super interesting.
I didn't know anything about that until we had the conversation.
But Russell, I posted this on the MythVision podcast
Facebook community page and Russell Miles said, a book wouldn't a paragraph
and a half be way too much to address the column?
And normally I would go, yeah, like I reject straight away from the first
I reject the first premise myself.
But what I love about your book is there is it's so dense.
And I haven't read the whole thing.
I've been watching your your series on your YouTube channel, where you go
through it systematically.
And there's nowhere to hide in this thing.
Like you really, really, that was the goal.
Yeah, it's supposed to be a comprehensive discussion of all of the issues
that he raises. Yeah.
Yeah. And because that hadn't been done before.
And what you get doing that is that you draw out you draw out issues
that aren't clear if you just focus on one or two little points that Craig
makes is that you notice that he makes arguments that are inconsistent.
And he draws upon principles in one place, but then contradicts them in another
place. And so you can't sort of have them both ways.
That's what I think one of the major weaknesses of the column is, is that
it does actually have a lot.
It's quite complex.
Now, this is the reason why it's attracted a lot of philosophical interest
is because it does have many different avenues or implications.
Like it relates to philosophy of time, philosophy of causation, quantum, quantum
mechanics, philosophy of like, well, philosophy of space or time, like the
origins in the universe, and it relates to philosophy of mind in terms of like
intentional action and agency and things like that.
So that makes it philosophically rich and interesting to discuss, but it makes
it worse as an argument because the more sort of pillars that your
argument depends on, the weaker it is.
Because remember, this is a deductive argument, or at least that's the way
it's typically phrased.
So you knock out one pillar.
I guess pillar is not really the best analogy, right?
Because multiple pillars will support the same structure.
And, you know, the more pillars you have, the better, but it's actually
the other way around in a deductive argument.
You only need to knock out one and the whole argument is defeated because
you need all pillars to, to, for the deduction to follow.
Yeah.
In terms of your earlier point about whether one paragraph is not enough, I
think, see, this is one area where I differ from a lot of atheists.
I mean, you could say one word, in a sense, you could say one word is
sufficient, you could just say no, right?
You could just disagree with the conclusion, right?
But the question is what your objective is.
I mean, psychologically, one can not accept any claim that anyone gives you
irrespective of what they say.
Yeah.
And if, if your only objective is to express your disagreement, then one word
is sufficient.
If your objective is to engage with the reasons given, and ideally to sort
of present in a sort of a systematic and, and fair minded way, why you think
that they've gone wrong and also potentially to persuade other people,
then I think that it does take quite a bit more than one paragraph to, to
discuss the column.
I don't think it does take a whole book though, because the column is only one
section of my book.
So I think it's my discussion of the column is about a hundred pages.
Now, you know, you could probably condense it a bit, but yeah, I think it
probably takes about a chapter at least to, to deal with the column.
What I, what I'm kind of shocked by as well is there's not much fluff in this.
Like, you know how you, like some books, like they're quite fluffy.
This gets right to the point.
It's very systematic.
Yeah.
So, I mean, so when it comes to, um, so you kind of open this book talking
about time, right, talking about the, the, um, A theory and B theory or how
you, how it's phrased is tense and tense less.
Um, which one is more cringe?
A theory or B theory?
What's, what, what are you, are you a B theorist or an A theorist?
Well, I find A theory and B theory, the labels is kind of cringe.
That's why I don't use them in my book.
Actually, originally I did because that's what Craig uses.
He has, Craig has four books on the philosophy of time and each of them is
very long and boring, um, and very hard to read.
So I've read most of three of them.
I think one is more theological.
I didn't focus on, but anyway, I tried to incorporate the discussion of
those in, in that section of the chapter.
And anyway, one is called the A theory of time.
One is called the B theory of time.
And the other one is, oh, the other two, one is about relativity and time.
And then one is theology and time.
So those aren't the titles, but that's what they're about.
Anyway, so Craig uses A and B theories labels.
I find those very unhelpful because they're not in any way connected to the
content of the theories.
It's just labels that I kind of remember who came up with them initially.
Tense and tense less, you know, tensed and tense less theories aren't great names,
but at least they're slightly descriptors.
So that's why I prefer those.
I should emphasize that technically tensed and tense less aren't the same as A and
B, but they're close enough so that I don't think that we need to make any
distinction here.
Now, personally, I think that the tense less or the B theory of time is the
correct one.
And I think that essentially that is supported by, I think there's philosophical
arguments, but I think the definitive evidence is scientific that the special
and especially the general theory of relativity, I think essentially, if you
interpret it realistically, like in terms of scientific realism, if you lean
towards that, then I think that you should conclude that they support the
tense less or the B theory.
And that's a problem for Craig, because Craig, as he said himself a number of
times, is an A theorist.
So he's a what's called a presentist.
So that's a form of the tense theory of time.
He thinks that only the present exists.
And he thinks that that's essential for the column to succeed.
So if you can show that presentism is wrong, then the column's not even doesn't
even get a starting point.
The reason this is relevant, by the way, is because if you recall the first
premises, the universe began to exist.
And that word began is critical there because this is actually fascinating.
I think I mentioned this in the book.
Craig wrote his, his initial work on this was his PhD thesis.
It was at which he published, I think it's just called the column cosmological
argument, and he doesn't discuss philosophy of time at all in that book.
And Craig has said elsewhere, I think I cite this in my book, that he said that
it was only after he published his thesis that someone brought to his attention
the whole A versus B theory issue, right, the whole philosophy of time point.
And Craig says that he wasn't really familiar with this beforehand.
And he's sort of just intuitively assumed an A theory of, an A theory of time.
So the way I interpret this, which I think is fair, given what Craig has said,
is that Craig wrote his column cosmological argument and got some attention
in the philosophical space or apologetic space.
And then he sort of realized that there was this gaping hole in it,
which is that if you reject the A theory of time or reject presentism,
then you can just sidestep both of his premises because they presuppose
this particular view of time.
So then what he did is he spent years going back and basically trying to
substantiate or defend his particular view of time.
That's why he wrote these four books, right?
And but the issue is the issue is this doesn't get discussed much in popular debates.
There's hardly any debates where this even gets mentioned.
I think maybe Sean Carroll, it comes up briefly, but for the most part,
he's able to skirt around this because most people aren't aware of this.
And even many philosophers who discuss the column with him on this
don't bring up this point about the theory of time.
But I think it's actually critical.
And that's why I start the book off with this,
because I think it's foundational to everything that comes afterwards.
Yeah, that that's so, yeah, to me, I look at premise one and go,
the universe began to exist.
I don't even know if I can answer that question.
Like I'm you've you've studied physics, right?
I have no idea, you know, I think maybe you can correct me if I'm wrong,
but we have no idea what happened or even if the word happened
before the singularity is even a sensical term like terminology.
Like in many ways, when it comes to the Big Bang Theory
and like the expansion of the early universe, we have where we've got theories
and concepts, but we don't have like a definitive answer yet about
like why things expanded from the singularity or or or I guess
that the reasons reasons for that.
So the first premise for me as a layman is just, I don't know.
Like I don't know if the universe began to exist.
I don't know if it always did exist.
You know, I don't I don't know if like before the singularity,
there was something there was an infinite regress of universes
that expanded and collapsed.
And so, you know, what are your thoughts on my layman's
rejection of that first premise?
Yeah, well, just linking it back to the discussion about philosophy of time,
I think, excuse me, I think there's a bigger problem for Craig,
which is that unless you accept presentism, nothing begins to exist
in the sense that Craig means it.
So Craig seems to, well, not seem to, I mean,
he discusses exactly what he means by by begins to exist,
but he means it in a kind of sense of literally things
or perhaps intervals of time.
He's not always clear about exactly what specifically,
but things don't exist and then they come into being and that's the present.
And then they go out of existence again and, you know,
like the next part of time or moment of time or interval of time comes into being.
So there's a sort of succession of
realizations of different parts of reality or like times in reality.
The thing is if and that's what he means by begin to exist.
So the universe began to exist in a sort of absolute sense.
And unless you accept presentism,
not only does the universe not begin to exist,
nothing begins to exist like that.
Basically, the the tenseless theorist of time thinks that time is like space.
There's over here and there's over there, but there's no absolute.
There's no absolute beginning, just as there's no no like absolute sense
in which one side of my room is like absolutely to the left of the other.
It's to the left relative to some frame of reference, right?
But it's just one part is over here and one part is over there.
It's not like one part is more real than the other or something.
Likewise, it's earlier and later than times exist,
but no one of them is more real or less real than the other.
So according to this view, the beginning of the universe is
is just as real as the as now, right?
It's just that it exists sort of over there at a different part of time.
And so we don't experience it now because we exist at this part of time.
So nothing really begins to exist in the way that Craig means it.
And so that that's a bigger problem even before you talk about
the beginning of the universe itself.
And that's why the first part of the chapter is addresses.
What reasons does Craig give for thinking that presentism is true?
And how do we evaluate those?
And then and then the next section is where I turn to the specific premises.
OK, let's just grant Craig his presentism now.
What can we say about the universe?
Does the universe begin to exist?
And I essentially agree with you that the best answer is we don't know.
But Craig wants to say that we do know and he has a set of
he does appeal to scientific results, but he says that the main reason
reasons by which we can know are philosophical arguments.
And so those consist mainly of a series of thought experiments
which attempt to show that either an actual infinity cannot exist.
So Hilbert's Hotel is one of these.
Maybe we could talk about that if you want.
And then there's others that attempt to show that irrespective
of where their actual infinity is going to exist, you can't have an infinite
succession of events.
So the past must terminate at some finite like distance sort of before the present.
And that would be the beginning of the universe.
So it's got two lines of argument which are basically built on thought experiments.
Yeah, it's the Hilbert's Hotel thing always gets me as well, because I am
and I might be philosophically lazy with this.
But but my my perspective on the Hilbert's Hotel and the the idea of
infinity is is very much a hands up in it.
Like like I don't think anyone can understand infinity.
Like I think it's like it's it's not we can't rationally contain it within
our brain other than to kind of describe it.
But we can't actually like we can't actually as soon as we've gotten there
when we think we've understood infinity, there's like we're missing something
like where there's more to be found, if that makes sense.
Maybe I'm saying this.
Have you heard about the the the monkeys and the typewriter like thought experiment?
Yeah.
So.
Sorry.
So sorry, there's just got a super chat.
Brock said, if you don't agree to play Codgner and he's turning off the internet.
OK, thank you. Thank you, Tom.
That was very that was very encouraging.
So.
So with the with the monkeys at the top of the thing,
I had like a heated debate with my family about this.
Like they were convinced that it was impossible that it would never happen.
But not only is it impossible, but it's like it's like it's proven
in the premise, right, because the infinity kind of works it out.
Like the like it can't not happen.
Like it's it's but I think if you have infinite monkeys, right?
And type, yeah, I pride is and Craig's going to say that's impossible.
Really, it's physically impossible, but like metaphysically impossible.
So in any possible universe, you can't have an actual infinity.
That's what he says.
Yeah, you see, that's maybe that's why my family didn't understand, didn't accept it.
Well, maybe I don't I don't know.
Well, wouldn't hang on and then please excuse me as I just go off on random thoughts.
But wouldn't that also because one of the other arguments for the existence of God,
which I quoted by the same apologist is that like you think of like God
and the thought of God is like a perfect being.
And so a perfect being would be even better than the thought of God.
He's a perfect being there for God exists.
Right. Yeah, so that sounds like the ontological argument.
Yeah. But so.
So so Craig William Lane Craig would have to reject that then because an infant God.
So it's gone on. Yes.
Well, so the thing is most most objections you can think of
to the column Craig has already heard and has a response to.
I like to think that I not I level a few novel ones, mostly that involve
connecting areas that other people haven't connected before.
But anyway, so Craig has responded to this particular objection.
Now, whether you find his response convincing is another matter.
Basically, what Craig says is that when he's talking about infinities being impossible,
metaphysically impossible, what he means is a quantitative infinity.
So a denumerable set of discrete items.
So like moments in time, for example, or I guess monkeys on typewriters.
Now, when Christians say that God is infinite, they don't mean that God has
like infinite things inside him or an infinite is some infinite set or something.
They mean this that he they mean it in the sense that he doesn't have any limits.
He's unbounded or he's, you know, maximal in some sense.
Now, I don't actually think this works, right?
Maybe that works in some ways, but there's there's one specific sense
in which you can show that that doesn't work in my opinion, and that is God's knowledge.
So for example, you could ask the question, how many prime numbers does God know?
Seems like the answer has to be infinite, right?
Because there can't be like a high, there's no highest prime number.
And surely God knows all the prime numbers of which they were infinite.
And so you can say for each prime number, there is a some kind of fact
that God is aware of or knows that corresponds to, you know, that prime number.
And it seems like there's an infinite number of those.
So in order to get around that, Craig just kind of has to say, well, God
doesn't have propositional knowledge.
He just sort of knows things in a non propositional way.
It's not really clear what that can mean.
I mean, he still knows an infinite number of facts, right?
So the point I want to make with that little example is that it only took a few
steps to get to the point where in order to defend his claim, Craig has to say
that God's knowledge is non propositional.
And already I'm scratching my head wondering, how does that work?
Like, what is a non propositional knowledge?
Do we even know what such a thing is like for a God to have?
And does it make sense for him to have non propositional knowledge
about things that seem to be discrete items like this prime number and that
prime number? And the thing is that when you when you work into the column,
you find that there's a whole host of things like that, that in order to get
around an objection, Craig just has to make an assertion.
And it's like, OK, well, there's that.
And then there's OK, so God's knowledge has to be non propositional.
What else is there?
Well, we've already got like the presentism as a theory of time.
We'll see there's a host of other things that come up later.
And when you put them all together, he needs all of these for the column to work.
Otherwise, one of these objections goes through.
And that's why I think the column is so weak is because it turns out you need
so many things to defend.
But the way Craig gets around this is in any one debate or discussion,
people usually only levy a few of these objections because there's just not enough time.
And so he has responses and it sort of sounds reasonable, right?
At least he's good at presenting himself.
What you don't realize, I think, is just how many of these, I think,
at least dubious claims, at least claims that are reasonable to doubt.
How many of these claims he has to defend?
And when you level them all up against each other, you realize, you know,
this is really more of a house of cards, right?
Like, there's so many things that have to defend here.
It's almost, have you counted how many, like, how many, like,
how many that he has to, like, kind of...
I think I might have said something about...
Yeah, I think I might.
I mean, it depends how you, like, individuate them, right?
I think I discussed this in the conclusion of the chapter.
I can't remember the exact number.
It's at least, yeah, so there's, at least there's the philosophy of time,
then there's the, he has to adopt a particular interpretation of relativity theory.
He needs to make at least one or two assumptions about the nature of, like,
God's mind and causation.
Then there's some assumptions about, like, the nature of infinity that go in there.
And then, oh, yeah, the impossibility of, like, they're being a...
Anything that comes, anything that's temporal, but comes from a non-temporal state.
We can talk more about that.
So there's that one.
I think there's a couple.
I think it's at least, like, eight to ten major relatively independent assumptions
from memory that span across a wide area of philosophy.
And remember, this is only one argument for the existence of God.
It's not like that these assumptions undergo different arguments.
They all undergo just one argument.
And I contend that it's just not...
Because he needs all of these, and they're all, I think, questionable.
To say that they're all probably true is just not really, I think, very reasonable.
Or at least it's extremely reasonable for someone like me to identify these and say,
look, on the basis of this, I just, I don't buy it, right?
That's why I don't buy it.
I saw a tweet from our friend Captain Christianity when I say friend.
Have you actually spoken to Cameron before?
Cameron Batuzzi.
Yeah, Batuzzi.
No, I think he's...
I don't know if I should say this.
I think his approach is to pretend that I don't exist.
Because, yeah, we've had some indirect interactions, but I've never spoken with him,
no.
He's spoken with Nathan, whom I've obviously done work with.
Yeah, I'm the same.
I've asked him to come on Deep Drinks a few times.
I don't think I have any amazing arguments or anything.
But I think his position is definitely to only platform people who make the argument
for Christianity look really good.
He's tweeted at me a couple of times, like when I've said some stuff on Twitter about...
I said an all-powerful God shouldn't need to rest on the seventh day.
And then he got angry at that.
But he said something that bothered me, not bothered me, but he's so good at trolling
people on Twitter.
And one of the things he said was, it's like a meme about, like,
oh, there's no evidence for the existence of God.
And then it had a list of all these arguments.
I can't get to seeing that.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And I was like, if I only had come on to Deep Drinks to discuss these,
I'd love to chat to you about any of these reasons to believe in God.
And just a random aside, because it seems to me that no apologist actually arrives
at their belief system because of these arguments.
They're like, they arrive there because they grew up Christian.
They got off drugs as a Christian or a Muslim or whatever.
They had some experience.
And then they're like, oh, Big Bang Cosmology kind of demolishes the seven-day Adam and Eve account.
Like, you know, maybe I'm going to go find how I can fit this together.
And then they go looking for the evidence post hoc.
But it's not fair for us to just sit here and talk about the ridiculousness of apologists.
So I want to actually flip the script a little bit just for a random aside and just ask you,
what is your worldview?
Do you have a belief in God?
Do you where do you think we came from?
What is the purpose of life?
Do you have like a elevator pitch for what where you kind of stand?
Well, I'm actually working on this at the moment in the form of a second book,
which will discuss a or outline a positive worldview for a form of naturalism.
Yes, I'm an atheist.
Now, I don't think atheism is a worldview, although theists sometimes say that it is.
To me, atheism is just the denial or rejection of the existence of God.
It itself is not a worldview.
Naturalism, metaphysical naturalism, I think is a worldview or at least a class of worldviews.
So when I say I'm a naturalist, what I mean by that is that I don't believe in anything
outside of the physical material world.
Some people distinguish physical and material.
I just use them pretty much the same.
So I believe that everything that exists is ultimately a product of the interaction of,
I guess you could say, fundamental particles, electrons and quarks and that sort of thing
interacting in various complicated ways.
Now, that doesn't mean that, for example, there's no such thing as morality or
minds or free will or meaning in life.
It just means that these things can be ultimately reduced in terms of their parts
or what grounds them.
This is a term philosophers like to make, like to talk about.
What grounds these things is ultimately bottoms out in physical state of affairs
in their interactions.
Now, this is distinct from many worldviews, theistic worldviews, for example,
as well as some other worldviews which postulate some sort of fundamental mind or spirit substance
that undergirds reality or even philosophies like Hinduism, which not necessarily theistic,
but think that there's some kind of stuff that underpins reality that's maybe not
mind, but not purely physically than karma and Brahman and other things like that.
So I reject all worldviews that have those sort of components.
And I think my ultimate reason for that is I think that we can account for everything
that we need to in the world or all the phenomena that we sort of experience.
We can account for all of that quite well just in terms of grounding it in physical
state of affairs.
And that's what I'm sort of working on in my new book about showing how that works,
looking at phenomena that theists often use to say, we need more than the mere physical,
the mind or morality and things like that.
But because I don't think that you need to postulate anything extra,
then I think, well, it's not necessary, so just leave it out.
Plus, I also think that these are other worldviews entail a lot of difficulties
accounting for these new processes or substances that they introduce,
which you can just avoid if you don't believe in them.
Yeah, I'm pretty much exactly on the same page as you in regards to that.
How do you account for something like consciousness personally?
Someone has studied neuroscience.
Yeah, well, that's often regarded as the most difficult thing for...
Solve it for me, James, so just tell me the answer.
Yeah, well, I mean, discussing that does probably require a book or at least a section of a book.
So I tend to think of...
So if by consciousness, what we mean here is what's sometimes called qualia.
So this means a phenomenal state, so a state that it's something to be like.
There's an experiential component of it.
People often point to the redness of a rose or something like that,
or it could be smells and sounds and other things like that.
Something that it has an experiential quality to it that we think that minds have,
but computers or trees, presumably, or rocks don't have.
So I follow an approach that's fairly popular in philosophy these days,
but certainly not universal, called representationalism.
And basically this says that qualia are representational states.
So the idea is that when we have a phenomenal experience,
like that redness of the rose, what that is is that's kind of a first-person viewpoint,
or first-person kind of way of experiencing what it is that that experience is representing.
So from an external point of view, you might be able to track the activity in my brain
and sort of correlate that to what I'm seeing.
But to the third-person observer, that's just going to look like certain physical correlations,
or I guess statistical correlations of physical states.
It's not going to feel like anything.
The idea of the representationalism is that there's kind of this disconnect between
what you can, how do I explain this, what you can determine if you just look at a system
from a third-person point of view, and what is experienced when you are that system.
This is how we resolve what's called the knowledge problem or the problem of the gap,
whereas, well, I could look in your brain and see the activity of the neurons,
but I wouldn't experience anything as the person who's like detecting that activity.
But the idea there is that in order to have that phenomenal experience,
you need to essentially be the cognitive system that is forming a particular representation.
So a third-person observer isn't that system.
There's some other system.
They're a different brain.
They're not your brain.
So you basically need to be that system in order to gain access to the what it is like.
So there's nothing ontologically new there.
So there's no fundamental new substance or stuff that produces consciousness or anything.
It's just that we are limited beings, and so that we can't get access to what it is like
to be a particular state just by describing it from a third-person point of view.
So there's a sort of a cognitive limitation there.
And what consciousness ultimately is, is a certain type of representation.
So consciousness has a function in that sense.
It reduces a phenomenal state to a sort of functional state,
a state that does some work by representing something in the world.
And it's just that we can't get access to what that's like unless we are actually that thing itself.
That probably isn't a very satisfying answer,
because I haven't done the work to sort of set up the principles there.
But this idea of representationalism I think is quite powerful,
and I think gives the materialist a lot of
a useful scaffolding to approach an understanding of consciousness.
The other thing that I will add to that
is I don't think that competing worldviews have any better explanation of consciousness.
Usually the strategy is to argue that the physicalist cannot in principle explain it.
So like they'll try to make a deductive argument without themselves offering anything better.
They'll just say, well, you can't in principle.
And so therefore like materialism must be false.
But I think that those in principle arguments fail,
and then it comes to a matter of, well, who can explain it better?
And the dualist or the panpsychist usually just define it into existence by saying,
well, there's just this extra thing that just has the property of phenomenal consciousness.
Well, I don't think that's a very satisfactory answer myself.
Just to push back on that, because I'm pretty much in agreement with what I understood there.
But I have a family member who's very into this kind of thought.
And they kind of posit, have you heard of, I forgot what his name is?
He wrote, I forgot what his name is, but I've got it back there.
I'm not going to go looking for it.
He wrote this book.
He was essentially saying that we have consciousness first.
The first way that we experience life and everything is through consciousness.
Right. So the material world is unjustified,
because it's happening and only reveals itself to us through consciousness.
Does that make sense?
Is this Bernardo Kastrup?
Who's that, sorry?
Oh, well, he's an idealist.
So it sounds like the sort of thing that he argues,
although maybe it's not him specifically.
But yeah, so I mean, this is an idealist argument.
It's Rippit Spirer.
It's Rippit Spirer, sorry.
What was I saying?
Yeah, so this is an idealist argument that what we have direct access to
is the world of ideas or like perceptions and thoughts and so forth.
And then anything beyond that is sort of inferential.
Now, and therefore, the argument there is that we should put ideas
or mental states at the grounding and then anything beyond that is sort of
emergent or develops from or is dependent on the mind.
So where I'm still sort of working on a robust response to idealism in my book,
but what I would say at the moment is I think that's sort of true,
but I think it gets the inferential step wrong.
So what I would say is it's true that in a sense,
we do have more direct access to say mental states like phenomenal perceptions and things,
then we have access to the material world,
because I think that we have an immediate access to the material world
through our perceptions and thoughts.
But it doesn't follow from that, that the material world is grounded
in or like dependent on ideas.
It only all that follows is our beliefs about it are dependent on our mental states.
So the way I approach this, I'll go ahead.
Well, what they'll say, what these people will say is
even just discussing the material world,
you're begging the conclusion, you're begging the question,
because there is no material world.
There is just consciousness is what they'll say.
And then so this is an analogy that I'll give, right?
So me and you were sitting in a white room and I say to you,
I say to you, hey, there's more than just this white room.
And you say, no, that's bullshit.
There's just this white room.
And I said, no, there's way more than this white room.
And I leave the white room, I pick up red flower,
I come back into this white room and I show you the red flower and I say,
look, here's a red flower.
And you say, yes, but that's still in this room.
So all that exists is within this room.
So now in this hypothetical, I'm leaving this room.
So it's not exactly the same, non analogous.
But the concept is anything that you kind of give,
it's un-falsifiable, which pisses me off.
But the only thing that you give is, I can just say yes,
but that's happening with the inside of consciousness.
So you're unjustly presuming materialism.
Yeah, I don't see how that's a presumption, right?
So the claim is that the mental world is, well,
either it's the claim that is foundational,
perhaps that it's all that there is.
Those aren't quite the same statement.
I suppose, yeah, if you're an idealist,
you would probably say that it's all that there is.
But either way, now, an alternative explanation
is that the mental world is not all that there is,
that there is some other facet to reality.
So merely raising that as an explanatory alternative
is not question begging.
It's only question begging if, in defense of that,
I sort of presuppose my view in some way.
But I don't see how it is because the claim is that,
well, and this is what I was going to say before.
I think one question that arises when we seek to explain
our perceptions and thoughts and so forth
is why are they the way that they are?
Why do they have structure and regularity and features
and so forth that they do?
And in my view, the best explanation of that
is to postulate a material world that obeys
certain laws or has certain regularities to it,
that all different minds interact with.
And they interact with each other through their connection
with that physical material world.
That's a postulate about the structure of reality
which is made in order to account for the phenomena
that we experience or the aspects of phenomenal consciousness
and thoughts and memories and so forth that we experience.
I think that idealists struggle to give any account
as to why it is that our perceptions, memories,
and thoughts are the way that they are
without accounting for some kind of structured regularity
that stands behind it.
Now, they could maintain that that structured regularity
is still something mental.
Perhaps it's in the mind of God, for example,
or it's also some sort of shared constructed dream
or something like that.
But I feel that that's just very hand-wavy
and that the materialist has a very coherent alternative
which is provided by science,
which I can ultimately point to,
fundamental particles, how they behave,
force fields and interactions and so forth,
and state that actually this is the fundamental
substrate of reality.
And then all of our thoughts and perceptions
are actually grounded ultimately in that.
So that's an alternative proposal that accounts for,
I think, the same phenomena ultimately.
And I think it does so in a more successful way.
Yeah, I'm a little bit of a,
and I'll get your thoughts into this,
but I'm a little bit of a determinist myself.
I believe if I drive a stake through my head,
my brain will stop working.
If I take Valium, I'll feel relaxed.
If I take any depressant, if I'm depressed,
I'll likely become not depressed
by exercise, I'll feel good.
Does anyone disagree with those?
Yeah, most people agree with those.
Yeah, I think most people agree with those,
but most people don't accept that the universe is deterministic.
Do you think the universe is deterministic?
Well, before I answer that question,
I'm curious as to why you say that,
because previously you'd expressed
a lot of agnosticism about things
like whether the universe began to exist,
or the nature of time, I think, as well.
How can you be so sure that the universe is deterministic?
Because I myself would say that I'm not sure.
Oh, really?
Well, let me educate you here, James.
No, this is just, this is-
I'm not saying you shouldn't think that.
I'm just sort of curious as to why you do that.
Yeah, so the way, so when I look at like the decisions,
well, okay, maybe I'll soften my language a little bit.
I don't think, I think that free will doesn't exist.
I don't know if we're in a deterministic universe,
but I feel like free will doesn't exist
on a fundamental level.
I believe it's an illusion.
And we will get back to the clam, I promise.
But what I'm kind of getting at is,
I think that if there is like,
if you imagine like a rock, a hill,
and there's a rock on top of the hill,
you push the rock down the hill,
it rolls down the hill, and hits a certain spot.
If you know every single variable of that rock
and the hill and everything, the friction,
the temperature, the speed, the velocity, all that stuff,
you can predict with 100% certainty
where that rock is going to land 100% of the time.
Like you could run that experiment a billion times over
and it would never change.
This is kind of not,
I know that there's some quantum randomness and stuff like that,
but just in a, without dealing with quantum mechanics just yet,
we can predict where it's going to land 100% of the time.
So I think that our brains are just a much more complicated version
of the rock and a hill.
And I believe the universe that we're in
is a much more complicated version of that.
So the environment that we're in, everything like,
is like, I don't have agency in that.
Like I can't take like a mass amount of,
you know, something that's going to make me unconscious
and then fight it off.
Like I can't just will it to,
you know, I'm trapped by the physical limitations of my brain.
I can't just choose to fly.
I'm trapped in the physical body that I'm currently in, right?
Like I'm stuck with the limitations of biology.
And biology is what seems to make,
is what seems to drive the processes that build the stuff
that's going on in my body.
So I therefore believe that that's where it's,
consciousness is coming from and decisions as well.
Yeah. So I agree with that.
And that's sort of the view of reality that I articulated
was sketched when I mentioned naturalism.
What I would say though,
is that it doesn't follow from that that we don't have free will,
although it does depend on what you mean by free will of course,
like many things.
So there's a former free will called libertarian free will
or libertarian agency,
which I think is the former free will that you're referring to,
which is the idea that we,
that at least some of our decisions,
and maybe all of them are ultimately generated
without any antecedent causes.
So, or in other words,
regardless of what the antecedent set of causes are
in your brain and body and the environment,
you could still choose to A or to B,
even with the exact same physical set of causes
and the exact same initial state.
And I agree that we do not have that type of free will.
Most physicalists reject that type of free will,
although there are some who think that it's still defendable,
but I don't think that it is.
But that's not the only type of free will that's on the table.
Well, can you rephrase that for me?
So you don't think it's possible?
Like, so if I have point A and point B,
like if I have like option A and option B,
do you believe that I was all,
I'm always going to choose one option?
Like there's never like, I can't,
I don't have free agency to choose
which option I want to choose, right?
Well, you've got to be careful there.
Like, what do you mean by free?
Like free in what sense?
So, yeah, so there's a sense,
so there's a sense in which this is often discussed
that the ability to do otherwise.
And what this means is that in the exact same
physical configuration,
so imagine if all the atoms,
well, the extreme case,
put the all of the subatomic particles
in the entire universe in the same configuration,
does the same result play out in the same way every time?
Or do you always choose left or do you always choose right?
Let's assume there's no genuine randomness
for the sake of argument,
because genuine randomness doesn't really get you free agency
because randomness isn't free choice,
at least most people think so.
So putting that to the side,
if in the exact same physical configuration,
you always choose the same option
and could never do anything else,
then you don't have the ability to do otherwise.
If you think the ability to do otherwise
in the exact same physical condition
is required for free will,
as libertarians do,
then you will typically think that materialism
and free will are incompatible.
And so that seems to be what you're articulating.
What I say is we don't need that to have free will.
That's an erroneous requirement.
Okay, interesting.
Of course, you could always just say,
well, I define free will to be this particular way,
and you know, okay, that's kind of boring.
The question is,
does that have any connection to the naive sort of concept
of free will that we have,
and the notions of like responsibility
and other things that are connected to it?
And personally, I don't think it does.
I actually think that that's a crazier requirement
if you dig into it.
Okay, yeah.
Can I give you a random hypothetical,
and then we'll get back to the,
and then ask you what you thought,
and then we'll get back to the column.
But the, so Adam and Eve, right,
let's pretend the historical,
the story of Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden,
it's a historical fact, right?
If God, and let's pretend God is an omniscient,
omnipresent being, he knows everything.
In those two instances that it's real,
and God knows everything,
he created Adam and Eve knowing exactly
what decision they were going to make ahead of time,
because he knew the environment they'd be in,
he knew the brain chemistry that they had,
he knew, he could see,
he could see that if he put this neuron here
and this neuron here,
like that they would make a different decision,
but he knew ahead of time that they were going to eat,
they eat from the tree of knowledge of good and evil.
In which case, I would posit that they didn't have free will.
There's no universe in which God,
if you believe God was omniscient,
that God would be surprised.
God wouldn't go, oh my gosh,
you didn't eat from the tree of knowledge of good and evil.
And I've heard Christian apologists say,
well, God just removed his knowledge
for a short period of time,
or God doesn't have all knowledge,
and that's how they'll get around it.
Would you agree with me that that would be the case
if you have a deterministic universal,
there's a universal I'm kind of thinking of
and you have an omniscient God?
Do you think that follows necessarily?
Sorry, does what follow?
That if God created Adam and Eve
with the brain states and the environments that they were in,
they couldn't, they had no other option but to eat the fruit.
They couldn't have done otherwise, right.
Well, what theists who believe in free will will typically,
and not all theists do,
but theists who believe in libertarian free will will typically say
that the physical state of a body like Adam and Eve
is not sufficient to account for the behavior
that you need to add in some kind of immaterial spirit or soul.
And that has this special causal power to generate decisions
or to act volitionally, to exercise volition
in different ways, even in the exact same physical configuration.
So Adam's body could be in exactly the same way,
but because of his ability to exercise volition
through his soul or whatever,
then in the exact same physical configuration
he could either eat the fruit or not eat the fruit.
And then the question is,
well, how does that relate to God's knowledge?
And theists will say different things about this.
Some theists will say, well,
God can still know what happens in the future
and then sort of he looks into the future,
you know, speaking loosely,
and then sees what Adam chooses.
There are some theists who think that there is no fact of the matter
about what will happen as a result of a free choice
because it's open, right, until you actually choose it.
And therefore, even God doesn't know what will happen in the future.
Those are called open theists.
They don't think God knows the future.
I think that that's actually more plausible myself.
I think that there's a deep...
I think the notion of libertarian choice is fundamentally incoherent.
I don't actually think it makes sense.
And so then if you're going to ask,
well, would God know the outcomes of libertarian choices,
I think you just get into a whole...
You get tied in knots because the underlying notion
you're working with is sort of doesn't make sense.
But perhaps I'm wrong about that.
And you could make sense of the idea that God knows the outcome.
But yeah, they disagree with each other there.
So it's a bit hard to nail a specific thing.
So in regards to just to stick back to the free will thing,
you believe that the...
How I laid out libertarian free will is a high bar,
is what you're saying, right?
Well, in a sense that it's not realized,
but I don't think it's high in the sense that it's somehow better to have.
I think that there's no reason to want libertarian free will like that.
I think it's actually very bizarre.
I mean, I can sort of see some of the philosophical
intuitions that lead there,
but I think they're ultimately mistaken.
I think that in a deeper sense, you should have should...
Or after reflection,
you shouldn't want that type of free will.
And it's not somehow better to have it.
It's not like we wish we could have it,
but we actually unfortunately can't.
I think it's incoherent and there's no reason to want it.
Okay. Okay.
So what type of free will do you subscribe to?
Well, I mean,
compatibilism is the broad category that says that you can accept both determinism
and free will.
Of course, again,
understanding that free will here does not mean libertarian free will,
or sometimes it's called contracausal free will.
So I don't think that we need the ability to do otherwise in order to have free will.
I think that free will should be under...
I mean, I'm still developing my ideas about this,
but I broadly understand free will in line with a particular
particular approach called reasons responsive accounts of free will.
So this locates the notion of freedom in a certain set of cognitive capacities,
which broadly would be the ability to understand the consequences,
or likely consequences of your actions,
and in some way to be responsive to the reasons that you have to act this way or that way.
There's questions about how to flesh that out precisely,
but the idea would be that...
So for a start, like small children and animals would have limited to know
freedom because they don't have the capacity to understand the consequences of their actions
and modulate their actions in accordance with their reasons.
They don't have those cognitive capacities.
Likewise, people who are significantly cognitively impaired.
And the idea is that freedom amounts to being able to have that level of cognitive capacity
and the ability to regulate one's behavior in accordance with considerations for
and against acting in a certain way.
And I think that that matches...
I mean, there's work to be done there fleshing that out,
but I think that matches much more closely with what we actually care about,
which is the idea that you can understand the consequences of your actions
and you're affected by reasons.
Because remember, someone who has libertarian free will,
why would you put them in prison for doing the wrong thing?
At least from my point of view, because it doesn't matter what punishments you would feel.
Someone who...
No, imagine libertarian free will was real, right?
And then you say, well, we can punish people then because they're responsible for their actions.
But why punish them?
Because the whole point of libertarian agency is it doesn't matter what deterrence you put in place.
They can still choose to do A or to do B, right?
They still always have that decision.
It seems that we would actually want to live in a universe where we can put in place
incentives or reasons, rationale that affect people's actions, right?
Because if you divorce someone's actions from the reasons in place that shape their actions,
then I don't actually see how you can preserve a notion of rationality.
Proponents of libertarian agency say that you can.
They say that people act for reasons, but they're not caused by those reasons.
But to me, that just leaves a huge undetermination problem.
Like, in other words, how is it that your reasons lead to your actions
if there's no causal connection?
Yeah, let me give an example that might make this a bit clearer.
So suppose I put, again, let's pretend libertarian free will exists.
And let's put a person, let's say it's Adam, right?
We put him in a room and we say, eat the fruit, don't eat the fruit.
And we say, well, it's a different fruit though.
It's not the normal one.
Let's say if one fruit will, if it's one fruit, it will kill him immediately.
And let's say it will be painful and then he will die.
And the other one will give him a bazillion dollars and he'll live happily forever after,
I don't know, like whatever, some amazing good outcome.
Now, what would you expect to see?
Now, remember, we're telling them the outcomes.
There's no deception here.
We're just saying these are the options.
Now, presumably you would expect pretty much everyone to choose the good one
and not the bad option, right?
It would be a bit strange for someone to choose the painful death
when there's no reason for doing so.
It's just kind of bizarre.
But the point here is that libertarian agency says that it's still open to that person
whether they, which they choose, that they can still choose to do either one.
And what I want to know is, well, what does that mean?
Like if I set this up a thousand times, what does it mean for it to be open?
Often the way that this is understood is that there are some possible worlds
in which the person chooses the painful death for it to be open to them.
There's a possibility.
But the question is, well, then how many of these possible worlds are there?
It's presumably not 50-50.
Is it like 90-10 in terms of possible worlds or is it like 99-100?
And then if we're able to, and this is, I think, the key point,
if we're able to change the probabilities of people's actions
by changing the incentives or the reasons for action,
then how does this relate?
So it seems that we can have a causal effect on people's decisions
by changing the environment and the reasons they have for acting.
But if we can causally affect people's decisions based on causes in the environment,
then that seems to undermine the idea that the person can act regardless of the circumstances,
that they can choose the good or the bad, like the painful death or the good option.
But it seems that they kind of can't, right, because we've set it up so that causally,
we're almost making it certain that they choose the one option
because we're causally affecting their decision.
I don't think you can have it so that the person, because libertarians want to say that
it's all internal to the person, which option they choose,
irrespective of the physical setup or whatever the initial conditions.
But on the other hand, they want to say that that person will also be sensitive
to reasons for acting.
But then it seems that if you change the reasons,
you causally affect them to act in a certain way,
and that violates the whole idea that they can act irrespective of the initial circumstances.
What if there is someone who just is born and they love pain more than anything else,
and then they want to have a painful death?
There's that famous case where there's that person, he had a brain tumor,
he killed his family, he killed a bunch of people,
and he told them to do an autopsy on his brain,
and they did an autopsy, they found a tumor pressing on part of his brain,
and they posited that that was the reason he went on some psychotic rage, killing everyone.
That person didn't necessarily, would you say that person
chose to make those decisions to kill his family,
or would you say that his brain was affected by something outside of his control?
Well, this raises an issue for the libertarians as much as it perhaps more than it does for
compatibilists, because if changes to people's brains can affect their choices in a regularly
and statistically detectable way, then how can we understand the idea that someone has
a choice to do A or B irrespective of what the physical state of affairs is?
The whole point of libertarian agency is that you are the first cause of your actions,
and it doesn't matter what the causes are acting on you, you can still choose A or B,
you can go either way. But the thing is, it seems that that's false, right?
You can cause people to do things, maybe not with 100% certainty,
but you can dramatically change the probabilities by changing the incentives in the environment,
by talking to them, by fiddling around in their brain,
that there's all sorts of ways we have for doing that,
and so that doesn't seem to work for me, that you can causally affect people's choices.
Let's say we gave Adam and Eve a bunch of Xanax or something, and they were so chilled out,
they never got the tree, and ate the tree of knowledge, good and evil, whatever.
But that's what I'm saying, I'm saying that I don't think we have that free will,
like I don't think we have that choice.
So I'm not quite sure I'm understanding your argument, so the reason that I relate,
the reason I was talking about the relationship between causation and reasons is because I think
that what you want to say is that people act for reasons, sorry.
What the libertarians want to say is that we act for reasons,
they want to say that we're capable of apprehending reasons and acting on the basis of it,
but they don't want to say all of our actions are causally determined,
because that would undermine the whole notion of libertarian agency, right?
Well, yeah, I guess that would be different.
But I'm saying you can't have both of those things.
So which of them do I reject?
I reject the idea that we should be worried about whether our actions are causally determined.
I think they are causally determined.
Put aside indeterminism for the moment, I think that they are causally determined,
but that's consistent with having freedom, because from my view,
the requirement for freedom isn't that your actions are causally non-determined.
I think that that is actually silly.
Rather, the requirement is that you have some kind of sufficient cognitive capability
to understand the consequences of your actions and act in accordance with the reasons that you have,
at least sort of to within some statistical regularity.
We could argue about exactly what that looks like.
Interesting.
A certain degree of brain injury is going to progressively
remove that capacity to understand and act in accordance with one's reasons.
I don't want to say precisely what that looks like,
and I think freedom is something that comes in degrees.
This is another point where I differ.
I don't think you either have free will or not.
I think that you have levels of freedom depending on your capacity to understand
and act in accordance with the reasons that you have.
So the worst, the brain damage is, I think, perhaps the more impaired someone is
in terms of exercising freedom.
And it's going to depend on the specifics in cases like that.
Interesting.
I'm going to have to think more about that,
because I think you may have put me on the path to sway my perspective a little bit,
because I need to think about it more.
I'm a bit of a slow learner, so I take a while to process a thought.
But that's interesting.
That's really interesting.
Well, I've been thinking about these ideas for years and trying to read a lot.
And I'm still early stages, so I wouldn't feel bad about that.
OK.
So going back to the column, so back to the column.
We've got the first premise, right?
And you're saying before you even get to the first premise, the universe began to exist.
You've got an issue with the presuppositions we have around time.
A theory or B theory, which is tensed or tensed less time.
Can you please explain the difference just quickly between the two?
Yeah, so I sort of mentioned this before.
So the tensed theory of time.
I'll call it presentism, which is close enough.
So presentism is what Craig is.
Presentism says that only the present exists.
So me talking to you now, that's presumably part of the present.
So that exists.
The start of this conversation, that's in the past, that doesn't exist anymore.
The end of this conversation, that's in the future, it doesn't exist either.
And what happens if it exists?
What does exist mean there?
Part of reality.
So the idea is that there is a succession of periods of time.
Only the present exists.
The present then gives rise to the next period of time.
So then what was present goes out of existence.
It did exist, but no longer does.
And then what was future now becomes present and now it does exist.
And so you have this objective process of temporal becoming is the phrase that Craig uses.
And so things objectively come into and go out of existence.
Right.
That's what the presentist thinks.
And that's what Craig thinks.
And that's what Craig thinks you need for the column to work.
Now the alternative view, which we can call the tense less theory.
It's also called the block theory of time says that this notion of objective temporal
becoming is nonsense.
There is no such thing.
There's no such thing as an objective present or past or future.
All there is are earlier than and later than relations between different points in time.
So what I would say as a tense less theorist is that the start of this conversation was earlier
sorry.
The start of this conversation existed in the earlier than direction in time.
And the end of this conversation exists in the later than direction.
All of those exist alongside the I can't say the present moment technically.
What I say is the part of time that's simultaneous with what I'm saying now.
All of these parts of the conversation exist.
They're all real.
It's just that they don't exist here.
They exist over there and back there.
And by that I mean like not spatially, but I mean in terms of temporal relations.
So the tense less theory of time is sometimes called a spatialized view of time because it
views time as basically like another dimension of space.
It's just that the main difference is that you can't go backwards and forwards in the temporal
dimension like you can spatial dimensions.
You can only go forwards at the same speed.
Well, so how does that like so with the obviously you know with the Hubble telescope,
we can we can see back millions of billions of years into the existence.
Yeah.
So how does how does William Lane Craig kind of cross that?
Like I don't think that has any philosophical implications because the idea is that the
photons that were released at let's say five billion years ago,
those photons have been traveling for five billion years.
And so the event in question is the Hubble telescope detects a certain photon and that
event occurs maybe it's happening right now.
So that event will occur as part of the present reality according to Craig.
But what Craig wants to say is that the emission of that photon that doesn't exist anymore.
That went out of existence five billion years ago.
Whereas I would say that still exists.
It just exists five billion years back that a way so to speak in the earlier this is so
this is so complicated.
I do for me anyway.
Like I'm going to rewatch this conversation to try and wrap my head around it.
So Michael Granada when he came on, he said and he was very careful with his wording.
So and he said, yes, be careful.
But he says a large portion of 21st century physics lends itself to be B theory, not a theory.
Is that correct?
Yeah, that's a more careful version of what I said earlier, which is that if you interpret
general relativity realistically, then I think that you will support or you will accept the
B theory or the tenseless theory.
Right.
So something that you wrote in your book, which I really loved.
And like I said, I'm only up to like page 3033, but you kind of bring up the fact that William
Lane Craig kind of states that his reason for believing in tense time is essentially a subjective
experiential one.
So he says, so here's the reality of tense is experienced by us in a variety of ways, which
are so evident and so persuasive, pervasive, sorry, that the belief in the objectivity,
objective reality of past, present and future and in the passage of time is a universal feature
of human existence.
And you said in your video, which is on your channel that you have to be careful whenever
when anyone uses that kind of wording, a feature of human existence experience.
So experience.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah, Craig is.
Oh, sorry, go ahead.
No, no, go.
Oh, actually, well, I was just going to what you kind of point out and which is what I really
love. You say quantum mechanics provides an example of a field whose findings stand directly in
contrast to many of our basic intuitions and direct experiences of the way the world is.
We experience space as continuous rather than discrete objects as past objects as
possessing a definite location rather than being spread over a region of varying probabilities
and objects as moving smoothly from one place to another rather than suddenly jumping to a new
location with some probability.
Indeed, our intuitions about space and time are easily shown to be inaccurate even in the most
familiar settings.
Yeah.
So yeah, I love that.
That was to me that that that I guess that to me in that sentence, you kind of describe the whole
prospect of kind of the whole even even even the debate around scientific, the scientific method
and subjective experience that someone might experience in like a temple or a church or
something where they have this experience that makes some conclusions based on this
experience.
Like for me, I used to speak in tongues and I was part of a Pentecostal church.
Right.
So I used to have these experiences and I draw conclusions from these experiences.
But I had no, there's no, it's completely the polar opposite of how the scientific method
works and how we like to determine make deterministic, determine determinations on
the universe that we live in.
Yeah.
So what were you saying?
Sorry, before I cut you off.
Well, this is the issue with Craig is that in fact, if you look throughout all of, so remember
I talked about how Craig needs to make quite a lot of assumptions in order for his to defend
his premises for the column to work.
Almost all of these premises, in fact, I'm trying to think if there are any exceptions.
I don't think there are.
Basically, all of these things that he needs to assume, he has various arguments defending
them.
But in all cases, the primary and he thinks the most significant argument in favor of them
is just that it's intuitively obvious.
So he appeals to his own personal experience and intuition repeatedly throughout all of
his arguments.
And this isn't really surprising because Craig has been very open about the fact that this
is his real reason for being a Christian in the first place, his own subjective experience
of the Holy Spirit.
And he says that that's the real reason that he's a Christian, the primary reason, and that
even if all of his arguments failed and were shown to fail, and even if there were many
arguments that he couldn't refute for atheism, then he would still be a Christian because
of these experiential, well, these experiences that he's had.
So this shouldn't come as a surprise, but I do think that it's important to know this when
addressing Craig's philosophical arguments is because at the base of pretty much all of them,
there's going to be an appeal to his own intuition slash personal or his own interpretation of
his experience is the way I would say it.
Although he usually uses and universalizes that.
So he says that the way everyone experiences things is the way he does.
And I don't accept that.
So he says it's about the nature of time, the notion of the notion of like the pateran
agency, the concepts of infinity.
He says that it's obvious that, you know, infinities can't exist.
He says this about the notion of causation, like it's obvious that things can't come into
being without a cause.
So he appeals to his own experience and his own intuitions here a lot.
And I just don't accept that those are reliable.
I mean, you gave a quote from the book where I sort of give one reason for thinking that
that we should regard such intuitions or interpretations of our experience as highly
suspect, because we know that even with things that are fairly familiar, like space and ordinary
objects, that we can be wildly inaccurate in intuitions about their sort of underlying nature.
Our intuitions are really only suited and interpreting our experiences only really
suited to everyday types of tasks with sort of every ordinary sized objects and
fairly narrow range of experience.
Once you move beyond that, I think that they become extremely unreliable and shouldn't
be trusted.
But Craig just doesn't seem to agree with that.
He just seems quite happy to appeal to his own interpretation of his intuitions about
things.
And that's just really interesting to me.
Yeah, I mean, I mean, the usual response is to say, well, yeah, sure, sometimes our
perceptions can be mistaken, but that's an unusual case.
And most of the time they're reliable.
That's the usual response.
And I just think that that's sort of factually wrong.
It depends on what the reference class is that you're looking at, right?
If you say, well, what about recognizing ordinary objects that people are familiar with in good
lighting when people are sober and so forth?
Okay, sure, then generally perception is reliable.
But that's actually not what we're talking about.
We're talking about perception or like interpreting your experience when it comes to
origin of the universe, infinity, the fundamental nature of time or freedom, right?
I mean, how do you expect our intuitions to have any bearing on those cases?
And yeah, I just think Craig doesn't really have much to justify him on this point.
I think he's just relying on people to have the same intuitions as he is.
So you got issues there straight away before we have an app premise one.
But let's say like you mentioned in your book, and you have to forgive me because I haven't gotten
this much further into your book yet.
But you say that you do eventually go, let's posit that it's correct.
Let's posit A theory is correct that the terminology used was, sorry,
tense time is correct.
You address these arguments there.
How do you address, do you think there are still problems going forward after that?
Even if you do accept the tense time?
Nope. Sneeze came a bit left.
Well, yes, because that just gets you up to the premise the universe began to exist.
And then Craig needs to establish that the universe began to exist.
So as I said, he appeals to both scientific and philosophical arguments.
I don't think that either of those are very successful.
I think the scientific arguments are much more convincing than the philosophical ones.
But ultimately, I think the appropriate attitude to have is one of agnosticism.
I don't think that we know whether the universe began to exist in any sort of ultimate sense.
Yeah, there's a lot to say about that that we don't have time to get into here.
But a lot of the philosophical arguments also rely on appeals to intuition about Hilbert's hotel or
people writing diaries for infinite time past and whether you think that that makes sense and so forth.
Yeah, I don't think that any of those are ultimately very convincing.
Uh, what we'll do is because we are coming up to time.
I want to first promote your book, which is is this
It's it's dense. Okay. I just can't I can't get over how well you've um, you've kind of done this book
You also have a youtube channel. Um, I want to kind of promote this
promote some stuff and then we'll go to another question, but
Check out the book on uh, amazon and the link is in the description
And you also have a podcast that you've been doing for how many years did you say?
Uh, about 12 years with with some with some gaps in there
That that's incredible. Um
How old were you when you started this this so that must have been of 20 I think
Oh, jeez. Wow
Cool, I need to change that cover image by the way that they recently changed that on me
I don't know who that woman is. It's just a random. I need to update that
Awesome, uh, and uh, so that's the science of everything dot net
And and uh links will be in the description also guys
Make sure if you haven't subscribed make sure to subscribe tomorrow morning
Australia time, which will be well in 12 hours time. We're doing a book club
So me and nosconformant are going to bring out 10 or 11 of our favorite books each and explain why
So this will be a bookshelf tour, which will be really cool
And also if you want to support this channel you can come a member of the channel now and you can also join the patreon
We have an a disrupted interview with pepe
um a ugandan
Activist and obviously with the laws that are happening over there at the moment where
You can be imprisoned now just for being trans
That's getting pushed through so you can watch that if you're a patreon member
So thank you so much everyone. So the so what I want to
What I want to say, uh, what I want to ask you is so we kind of just even just touched on the first premise
But is there a premise in here that you think is the worst premise like the premise that just
Falls over or is that the least plausible premise least plausible? Yeah, I'll use my I'll use my wording correctly because I'm talking to a philosopher here, so
Least plausible. Yes. Well, I think that the least plausible premise is is the last one that if the universe had a cause that cause
Must be personal and this is the premise that by far gets the least discussion
Which I think is unfortunate precisely because it's I think the least plausible and and in some ways the most interesting
So basically this is where
Let's say that we think the universe did have a cause, right?
And remember this is all the strict or narrow form of the column attempts to establish the universe had a cause
A naturalist, I think can fairly readily accept that. Um, well, there's a little bit of work you need to do
But it's not obviously inconsistent with naturalism
And it's certainly consistent with being an atheist, right?
It's a get to get from to get from the universe had a cause to theism
You need to establish that that cause must have been God essentially and that you rule out all the other possibilities
and I think that the
Craig devotes a very little time to actually doing this
As I said that there are really only two arguments one is there are no other alternatives
Which is just a laughable argument because he doesn't even try to come up with other alternatives
And so I present some other alternatives in my in my book
That are neither God nor like physical
Um, I don't believe in these other alternatives, right?
But the point is that you can't just say there aren't any without trying to see well like has anyone offered any possibilities
Or is there anything we can even think of as possibilities? Well, there are right? So it's just a laughably silly argument
Um, I don't know why no one's pulled him up on that before because it just always struck me as dumb
But then the other argument that he gives in favor of the personal cause is to say that well
You need to postulate a libertarian agent in order to solve this problem of how it is that the universe started
um
without um
Yeah, how it is that the universe began in a you know in the sense of absolute becoming
um
With a cause but without existing from eternity past because basically this gets a little bit technical
But craig said craig thinks that there's a problem here is that either what you're going to get is the universe is never caused to happen
so we just have no universe or
It existed for an infinite time past because basically whatever the cause was well
The idea is why did it sort of wait a while?
I have to put weight in quotes there because it's not like it waited through time
But why why if the cause was eternal? Why did the cause not give rise to the effect?
With the effect co-existing eternally with the cause
um
And that's the fun that's the issue that the craig wants to present
So he wants to say well the cause of the universe can't be something that began to exist because then you'd ask well
What caused that to begin to exist and then that gives you a regress
So then it seems that the cause must be eternal or at least like existing outside of time
But if the cause exists outside of time, then how is it that you get a universe that just began a finite time in the past?
he thinks that if you have
An eternal cause you must have an eternal effect
And so he presents this problem here. Well, how is it that the universe was caused?
But but was caused to begin a finite time in the past and he says the answer to this is well
It must be a libertarian agent which exercised its volition to just bring about the universe
And he goes into some more detail about why he thinks that that's a solution
But yeah, I just think that this is entirely a pseudo problem
All you have to do even if you buy into everything else that he says is simply you say
Well, yeah, whatever it is that caused the universe has a special causal power where it can give rise to a temporal universe
This is exactly what craig thinks right? He thinks that god is such a being
But all you have to deny is that is that this special cause of the universe is a personal agent
That there's just no inconsistency there craig is just sort of assuming that you have no imagination
And you're accepting his word when he says it has to be a personal agent
Well, no, no, no, it can just have us a special type of causal power
We're postulating an entity that exists outside of time which has a causal power of bringing about the initial state of the universe
From a from an atemporal state
You can postulate that as an explanatory entity and it's better than what craig does because what craig does
He's postulates an entity with this special power
In addition, it has all other powers. It's omniscient and it's omnipotent and it's omnibeneval
It's got all of these other things as well
Whereas in fact, that's not necessary at all all that you need to postulate is an entity
That has just the sufficient power to bring about the initial state of the universe
Anything beyond that is postulating more than is needed. It's excessive
And therefore I think it's not a good. It's not a good argument
I feel like
the those who like
the
column are
people who have already bought into their positions and the people who
would like to criticize it
Kind of get to the first like they think it's so easy to criticize
They don't put as much work into it that you have and I think that's where that's why no one has written the book that you've written
Because you've you've taken what seems like you see if I got if I was you and I got to that last premise
And I saw how silly that was. Um, I would or even the first premise I would just kind of well
No one needs to write a book on this like this is this is very
You know, but you did um, so I'd really do recommend people get the book if they have any interest in discussing these
um these points with your um conspiratorial uncle at christmas
um
Well, I think that's the problem right because the more sensible people like you who don't spend all this time on these arcane points
Just sort of you know
I don't necessarily give it that much time and and what that does is it leaves
For the most part the people who just sort of find this stuff intuitive for whatever reason like rake does
Or who basically just sort of wants to believe or are pre-committed to believe in the conclusion for various reasons
Um, and so give the argument mostly a free pass. I don't want to say that all theists are like that
But I think there are theists like that
And therefore it's kind of an echo chamber where everyone's sort of saying
Oh, isn't this such a great argument or it's so persuasive or you can't get around the column
You know, you see this sort of discussion, but I think that it's um
There are many aspects of the climb that aren't that hard to I mean some of them get a bit technical philosophy of time and
You know general relativity
But some of these points like well if there was a cause of the universe it must be a god
Like you only have to think about that for a few minutes to think well
No, there's all sorts of things that could have caused the universe
I don't know what it was, but it doesn't have to be a god right it could be all sorts of things
You just need a little bit of imagination and to think through it for a few minutes
But it's surprising how this that doesn't get raised a lot and I think it's because
Yeah, a lot of the people who engage with the argument do so in fairly stereotyped ways like they all start debating
Um, the hillbets hotel, right, which I think is less interesting than just just jump straight to the point
Does the supposed the universe had a cause does it have to be god or could it be something else?
Yeah, you know, and I sort of encourage that sort of more focused way of dealing with things
I do want to um, I do want to kind of shout out. Um, I'm on
You normally see that I've watched a few of your videos, but I'm on my other account, but you do
Where where was it you do these like seven hour long?
Um videos, which is amazing. So that's the bad apologetic series
Oh
So they're not on this channel. They're on Nathan's channel digital. No, oh, okay
You've got a seven. Oh, except for that one. Yeah, that was 500 a 100 arguments against Christianity
Which is
It's just amazing. Um, but where's the you had one where you're actually going through your book. Um,
Yeah, so those have my book as the thumbnail. Oh, yes. Yes. Yes. That makes sense
So if you want to actually see you go through the book, uh, and you kind of explain things in greater detail
It's fantastic
I really believe people should go subscribe to your channel and um, listen to at least the first two videos
And then see if you want to pick up the book
If you're still on the fence, but it's it's fantastic
500 uh five hour arguments. Yeah, it's um, it's uh, it's amazing. So, um
So I do I don't want to get into hillbill's hotel because that'll consume the last five minutes that we have
But I do want to ask a few questions if um, uh, of you
So with all the research that you've done, uh, do you think willing craig is a bad faith actor?
Uh, I've gotten to trouble uh saying this before
And one of the reasons I don't like to talk about it so much is because
I think it's more important to simply address the arguments than to
speculate about his psychological state
That being said, we've spent most of the time talking about that since since you've asked. Um, I I don't think that
Uh craig is sort of entirely bad faith. I do think that he uses certain tactics slash arguments in bad faith. Um, I haven't
I've debated about whether to try to put the evidence for this together in one video
And I just haven't been convinced that it's worth the time doing because then people would just attack you for focus
For an ad hominem whatever
But there are a few points that I highlight throughout my book
Where I think that it's hard to argue that he's acting entirely in good faith
One example that I think that is probably the simplest to understand is in craig's presentation of the ontological argument
I document this in that there's a section at my book at the end where I talk briefly about that craig doesn't talk a
Lot about the ontological argument, but he does sometimes present it and there's one presentation where he and he's done this number of times
where he will say that
um, one formulation of the ontological argument is essentially that um
If it is possible that god exists then god exists. It's possible that god exists. Therefore god exists now
That might sound kind of silly. I won't sort of get into why we're interested in that
But the the point here is that in presenting this argument to a you know popular mainstream audience craig will say well actually
most philosophers think that
They agree with the first premise most philosophers agree that if it is possible for god to exist
Then god exists right and and he's right right and all he means there is that most people think that god is a necessary being
So if it's possible that he exists then he does like it's not he could have existed
But maybe does like it's it's a kind of an all or nothing thing so to speak
So he is right when he says that most philosophers agree with the first premise
Of course, then the issue is is it possible for god to exist? But then what he does
So far so good, but then what he does is he said he appeals to the audience and says well
What do you think is it possible for god to exist?
If you think it's possible then you will think that god actually does exist by the first premise
And the reason this is intellectually dishonest is because craig is using two different notions of possibility here
In the first premise he's using the notion of metaphysical possibility, which is
Like is there a possible world in which god exists?
And that's a sort of a technical notion in the second premise when he appeals to the audience
He's well the second premise technically should be using the same sense of possibility, which is metaphysical possibility
But when he's appealing to the audience and asking them
What do you think do you think it's possible for god to exist?
He's appealing to a an epistemic notion of possibility
Which just means as far as you know, and that's a very different notion of possibility
You can have something that's epistemically possible, but not metaphysically possible
Um, I suppose vice versa as well
But um, so the point is there he is clearly and unambiguously in my opinion equivocating
In in presenting that argument. I don't think there's any ambiguity there
That is what he is doing in appealing to that because otherwise you wouldn't you wouldn't say do you think it could be because that's just
a neuroneous usage of the notion of possibility relative to the first premise
So and craig is far too smart to do that by accident
So I think the only explanation here is that he does that because it's um, it sort of sells well
It goes down well with a crowd. It's like, huh, well if most philosophers think this and I think it's possible for god to exist
Without sort of understanding the nuances of the difference between metaphysical and um
An epistemic possibility. So I think I mean there are other examples
But that's actually the one that I think is clearest and easiest to explain
I think craig is being dishonest and disingenuous when he does that he does other tricks like this as well
like selectively quoting experts um using
Using an argument in ways that are inconsistent between two different things that he says which he would know
But he's hoping other people don't don't notice. I document some of these in my book
So I don't think that craig is like I think that he believes the things that he says
I just think that he takes these liberties because he thinks that he can get away with it and
Ultimately his purpose is to spread christianity and reinforce, you know, the faithful and that's his fundamental
objective his fundamental his
What's most important to him is not intellectual honesty. It's you know pursuing apologetics
And so I think that he takes these liberties and shortcuts when he can and I think that there are cases where you can fairly clearly document that he does that
Yeah, um
Of course, I should answer that people who don't like that will make excuses to try to say oh, well, you know, he meant this or you know
So you can if you if you I believe in in being good faith in the way you interpret people
But there's always a limit, right?
Like you can always make up excuses to justify any behavior
But my opinion is when you look at cases like that and others that I've seen that the best explanation
Is that there are cases where craig?
Is dishonest in the way that he makes certain arguments or what he appeals to
Others may disagree based on their background and that that's fine. But that's my own opinion based on what I've read. Yeah, yeah
Yeah, do you do you think most apologists are intellectually dishonest?
In the sense that I just articulated there
Yeah, like there's a sense in which well, they're just total frauds and they're just like saying things that they think yeah
I don't think I think a lot of I think that's like one percent of apologists or preachers are like not even that
I think it's very I don't think a lot of them are scammers, you know, like peter popo for something
I think a lot of them
believe what they believe believe but they then
Twist it and lie about it and stuff like that. How many of those like how you just describe it?
How many apologists do you think I think the majority?
But it must be said that I think that that's true for
Popularizes of pretty much any ideology. So I don't actually have any data on whether atheist popularizes are like more intellectually or less intellectually
Sorry, I forget what I said. I don't know that atheist popularizes. I mean, yeah
But I don't know that they're actually more intellectually honest
I'd like to think that they are but I don't actually have any data on that. I haven't looked into as much detail
I focus more on
Apologetics and countering that so I see those but I see a lot of bad arguments in atheist and rationalist spheres as well
It is very like it's it's very tempting to
to take rhetorical wins if you're in a debate with someone
And you know, it's sloppy
Yeah, it'll be sloppy and use arguments that you know a kind of dodge, but it's just sort of easy to use them
You know things like yeah, you can get it
You can get them to shut up about one point
So you can move on to the point you really want to talk about or something like that
Like I've done that in the past where I have to pull myself
Like well someone challenged me and I go actually no I don't even think about this
It's when you're in the heat of the moment too
So so my there was actually a pre-question to the question
I wanted to ask which was who do you think is the most honest apologist that exists?
Yeah, I
I don't know that I'd like to answer the question quite that way, but maybe
An apologist that I respect the most or something
Which is intellectually speaking obviously I don't want to comment on
What people like personally, but in terms of interest
Um, I have a fair bit of respect for Sean McDowell
He does um
Posts some stuff that I think is a bit cringe, but I think he's more fair than a lot of other apologists that I've seen
And um, I was trying to think if there was another one. Oh, yes. There was another one. Um, what's his face?
Michael O'Connor as well
I do have a fair bit of respect for him
One of the reasons is because he has actually gotten in trouble with his employer or maybe former employer
I'm not quite sure because yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah because he was raising some questions about one of their
Aspects of um, they're um, what are they called the statement of faith that they have to sign
You know, and he's talked about having genuine doubts and other things like that which for example
Craig has never ever said anything about having doubts
And that's because I don't think he ever does
Because of the way he or if he does they're so suppressed down anything that whereas Mike McConnor has talked openly about that, right?
So I I have respect for Michael O'Connor intellectually
That I don't have for Craig for example
Michael O'Connor, I I definitely agree with that. Yeah
Okay, uh, two last questions. I'm sorry. We're going a little bit over time, but um, let's say
Have you got any kids or anything?
No
Okay, let's say
You had a kid and they like came up to you and they said I had a dream and they retold and it's like it was
I was in another life and they retold this
Thing that was extraordinary, right? That was extraordinary coincidence. Something that actually happened in like world war two or something
and um
Where I'm kind of getting at is um, there are a lot of like documentaries that
I kind of pose the same idea. That's that their child's not having dreams
They looked into like some medical records or some military records and they found that that that it perfectly
Aligned with something that happened in history that the child never knew about
And the child is saying that like I'm I'm reincarnated from that person
What what would you make about if your child came to you and said something like that?
and there was some
uh, some evidence behind it in regards to there was some
Like power like I'm
Geez my brain is not working. Um
Normally drinking when I do these things. So I'm normally probably worse. Um
the like, uh
Explanatory power this is my explanatory power like so they go. Oh, you know, I dream I dream that I was in a plane
The plane's number was one four two three x y
We drowned and then if they go there and if they find that there was this plane there
And there was that pilot of the same, you know, what would you make of that without change?
Yeah, it's like incredible coincidence
Incredible coincidence. Well, I mean I have investigated quite a few claims like that not not by people
I know personally but through interactions on the internet and uh cases that I've read about
In every single case that I have investigated in detail
um
And there would be dozens by now. Um over the years
Uh, the the reported facts are not the actual facts as far as they can be verified
And the actual facts lend themselves inevitably of more mundane explanations
Now I don't like giving that as a response because you could
You know, it's one of these proven negatives, right where I prove there isn't one where they they don't they can't be explaining that
Well, well, obviously that's impossible. So it's a whack-a-mole, right? It's well. What about this case? What about that case?
um
So it's a never-ending
It's never-ending. So it'd be it'd be like the child says something like I was in a plane and it crashed and there was
Number seven on there and then they find this plane that crashed that had like seven four two six four six
And then they say oh the child knew the number when it was really just one number of the
Well, yeah, they're they're a case. I mean not the specifics
But cases like knowing things that they couldn't have known and and often what you don't have is for example
Documentation that there was an actual that someone actually knew something and that they couldn't have known it
um in any other way
So you'll get them saying post-hoc that they knew it but couldn't have known it any other way
But well, how can you prove that like it's actually very difficult that you have to be able to control a lot of variables to be able to
Be convinced well reasonably convinced that that couldn't have happened
And that's exactly what we try to do in scientific investigation is to control those variables
and what you don't have is any of these sorts of
Phenomena being replicable or documented under controlled conditions
But your initial question wasn't about that
Exactly. It was about what I would say to my child or maybe someone else that I knew
How would you cross the T and like dot the i's there? Yeah, well, what I would say is well
What do you think happened and then maybe they would say something and and I would say oh
Well, why do you think that or do you think there are any other possible explanations or how would you know if you were wrong about this?
So just you know opening up questions like that
I mean it would depend on how old the child was or the person was and so forth
But I don't particularly if it's like a a younger person. I don't want to be
Prescriptive about oh, this is what I think and so that's the right answer
I think much more important is the process of thinking thinking things through and I think one of the most important things to do
is to practice
Um thinking of alternative explanations and then trying to work out. Well, how could you adjudicate between them?
Often what we do is we stop at the first explanation that seems plausible to us
And that is a terrible epistemic practice. Everyone is guilty of this. I like to think that I'm
better because I think about this a lot and you know, I
Kind of autistic as well with like with these sorts of things as illustrated by the book for example
But but but everyone falls prey to this sometimes and some people fall prey to it
I think almost all the time where it's the first thing that sort of satisfies the curiosity or that assuages their
Concerns or that fits their biases, whatever they just accept that and they don't question it
Or they don't ask for competing explanations or seek out a different view
And I think that that's one of the most important things to um to foster that's kind of why I wrote the book in a sense because I want
Simultaneously, I want theists to think more carefully about these sorts of arguments and often
They don't they just sort of agree with what craig says because you know, he's depending what they believe
But I also think a lot of atheists don't think about them too seriously either because they sort of dismiss it as oh
That's kind of silly
And even if they're kind of right that in some sense it is silly like there's still there's still substance there
There are still deep questions to be addressed about like time and
You know freedom in the universe and stuff like that and they can't all be dismissed by just saying it's silly
Um, there's there's work to be done there. Um, and so I sort of want to encourage
You know people from different perspectives to take seriously
The arguments and and address them on their merits
That's great. That's that's um, I like that. Um
Last question, um
What if anything would change your mind?
On the well about about what specifically?
The god belief
Oh about theism
um
Yeah, I thought about this
I mean, it really depends on the specifics of what theism we're talking about like what particular belief
Um, I think if we're talking about the traditional omni god, I think the most
Important thing would be a resolution of the problem of evil because I think that's the single
If you're assuming god is all good if you're not assuming that
Oh, sorry, if you're assuming god is all good and all powerful
I should say if we reject one of those two things and this ceases to be a problem
But that's a part of the traditional notion of god
So if we take if we keep those two things, I think that's the single biggest problem
Uh with with that form of theism and so that's not something where it's a question of evidence per se
Although I suppose evidence could come to light that would help us to understand that at least theoretically
But I think it's just a fundamental problem. Um that keeps me away from that form of theism. Um, and so
Some argument or evidence relating to that
That helps a long way to resolve this would probably be the single biggest thing for me
But it wouldn't be sufficient by itself because there are lots of reasons why I reject theism
So I don't think any single piece of evidence or argument would be sufficient
But in terms of blockers, that's probably the single biggest one
One thing I will say is that no personal experience
Well, I can't necessarily say what would happen. No personal experience should convince me that god existed like
Or if he appeared to me or did a miracle because I don't think any any
Certainly no single singular experience or event like that would justify such a belief
In fact, even if we couldn't replicate miracles like that
I think that it would be more plausible that they were caused by aliens than by a deity
So I think that evidence like that is not or should not be convincing
Are you a fan of shume?
Oh, very much so. Yes. He's my favorite philosopher though. I certainly don't agree with everything he said, but I really like his approach
Yeah, it's the same. Uh, have you read shume's abject failure?
I haven't read it. No, I've read a bit about it
Okay, I'd love to get your opinion on that because that was I read it. Michael Jones suggested I read it. I read it and I was um
I my brain is not big enough to understand what I was even kind of comprehending there, especially with the Bayesian analysis
Um, I'll send you the pdf, but
Yeah, I think it comes down to interpreting what he was saying which there is a lot of dispute about and that's the sort of thing
That I'm not really very interested in
Exegesis of dead philosophers just doesn't interest me that much
Even though I do respect him a lot whether he was talking about like the likelihood of the posterior probability or whatever
Like it's just not it's not a great interest to me. Um
But yeah, it is of great interest to a lot of people
So but so many apologists seem to think that if they can refute Hume's argument against miracles
Then that's like the strongest weapon in atheist asshole
Even though he wrote before Bayesianism was really developed on those sort of like, you know
There are actually developments that have happened since then. We don't have to just rely on Hume as good as he was
Yeah, exactly. Well, um, thank you so much James for coming on. It's been an absolute pleasure
Guys, make sure you go check out his book and his youtube channel and his podcast. It's really really good stuff
I'm gonna leave everyone with a trailer for a panel that we're doing in april on purity culture
Purity culture horror stories. So we'll see you there. Peace guys
Oh
Oh
