Welcome everyone to Deep Drinks Podcast. This is going to be a really fun one. I feel like
I said that every episode, but this really is going to be a fun one. It's been a long
week for me and when we get to the drink, you'll see why I'm excited.
Hany was once a Muslim, once a Christian, and now an atheist. He runs the popular YouTube
channel Critical Faculty, which is dedicated to the use and elevation of our critical faculties.
Hany's desire is that everyone can improve their understanding of reality and make better
decisions when dealing with the emergent issues of our existence. I really love how he said that.
If you go to Hany's channel, you may find philosophy, psychology, and science as he debunks,
refutes, and discusses myths, pseudoscience, and dangerous dogmas. I'd like to very excitedly
welcome my new friend, Hany. Welcome to Deep Drinks Podcast. Thanks for coming on man.
Thank you so much David. I'm really excited about this.
I feel like we need a studio audience because we're always not clapping for the guests.
I need some side effects of my studio too.
Yeah, I should get a sound effect. That's really cool.
We're just having a really casual conversation tonight. We're initially going to talk about
more of your journey into Islam, and I'm sure we'll get into that and things like that,
but we're just going to have an open conversation about religion, philosophy, and science.
I don't normally do this, but we've had conversations on the phone a few times,
and often it's like 40 minutes in and we're like, oh, we've got to get like, this is just going on.
So I hope everyone else can enjoy our conversation because I definitely will be.
So what are we drinking tonight, Hany? Well, cheers. I've got vodka cranberry with
a dash of raspberry. Oh, nice. Well, for me, it's been a long week so far. So I'm very much
looking forward to this, and I apologize everyone. If I say some really silly stuff, I've got brain
fogged tonight, and I don't think this is going to help, but we'll see how we go. All right,
so I'm mixing mine. So how much vodka did you put in yours? There's like two servings,
like double. It's a nice large glass, so I'll usually have double servings in there.
Yeah, cool. Well, I think I might have to do a triple because my glass is huge.
So one thing we wanted to quickly touch on before, well, I guess I should say you want to
quickly touch on before we get into like a deep conversation is you were watching the
live stream the other night, and you super chatted something, and you've got a beef,
you've got a beef to resolve. Is that right? Yeah, it's not kind of, it's really putting
things straight because I felt when I was in your podcast the other day, speaking with
Massoud Ahmed, that he, I don't want to say deliberately, but maybe he was not aware of a
verse that I was trying to lead to. We were talking specifically about the verse where men are
not just allowed but instructed to beat their wives as a step number three in sorting out
a domestic dispute. Yeah, I will actually say I've had a few, I've had some people reach out to me
who have been in domestic abuse situations themselves, and they're thanked me. And so
thank you for pushing back against that because, you know, it's this very type, my perspective is
that this type of rhetoric is what, and this type of dogma perspective is what causes these
type of domestic violence situations to continue. Not necessarily, I don't think it's a result,
like I don't think, I think the average person that beats up their partner or abuses their
partner or something isn't doing it because the Bible of Quran says so, whatever, but there are
some people who obviously would find that acceptable and do it. I think, yeah, so I'm going to show
the little clip of when your super chat came up so we can just set the record straight and,
because I wasn't good enough to be able to find the verse at the time. So here we go, this is the
clip from a few nights ago when I had Massoud on who is a Muslim and we were having a conversation
about the existence of God and we were talking, he got a little heated and we're talking about
Quran 434 which says, if you fear high-headedness from your wives, remind them of the teachings of
God and then ignore them when you go to bed and then hit them. So here we go. I am in that.
Massoud, you just asked a question, you said, I don't know how people get this, and I was just
explaining. I was just saying, to me it looks very similar to that, but critical fact we asked a
question and I don't know what he's referencing, but he said, David, please ask Massoud about the
chronic verse where the very situation is in reverse. Ask him about the steps taken. What are the steps
taken? Well, if the woman wants to beat, yeah. See, look, the Quran does not prohibit a woman
not to beat the man. It does not prohibit it. Nowhere you will find a statement in the Quran,
ladies, you cannot beat your husbands. This statement is not in the Quran. If the lady wants
to beat the man, she can, but the risks are at odds. She's at high risk to be beaten back.
Is that what critical fact he's asking? The chronic verse where the very situation is in reverse.
Is that what he was asking?
I think, I don't get it, the chronic verse where the very situation is in reverse. Ask him about
the steps taken. The steps taken will be the same if the woman wants to beat or the man wants to beat.
See, look, there is equality in law. In the Quran, if you read verses in chapter two,
where the Quran is talking about relationships between a man and a woman, it gives the ladies
equality in relationships. There's a verse in the Quran, it says the rights are similar to ladies.
So even if a lady wants to beat a man, she has to go through counseling first and then separation of
the beds. And then if it continues, it's, of course, you can beat. But what I'm saying is,
if she ends up beating him and gets beaten back, the stakes are high and there's great damage being
done. I understand that. So I don't know if we need to go any further, but because I'm going to get
retraumatized because we will on that point for like 40 minutes. But yeah, so you were saying that
there is a verse in the Quran or in Hadith or? Yeah, so if I may share something,
if you allow me to share something so we can actually show our audiences as well,
that. So can I present the verse? Absolutely. And hello everyone in the chat. I know this is
a different time than we normally stream. Hi, Dr. Cheryl. It's awesome to see you here. There we go.
Right. So we are going to start from verse 34. It's horrible and disgusting verse.
Men are caretakers of women as men have been provisioned by Allah over women and
tasked with supporting them financially. And the righteous women are devoutly obedient and when
alone, predictive of Allah as entrusted them when. So this is the precursor. This is preparing you
psychologically for why men should start acting this way towards women. It's been justified through
men are the financial supporter of women and therefore women should be subordinate.
So this is the psychological preparation. And it's it says here and if you sense
ill conduct from your women, advise them first. They persist do not share their beds,
but if they still persist, then discipline them gently and that is a bit of apologetics in there.
It's not in the Arabic text. It's obviously somebody 21st century's morals have overridden
their compass and saying all this. This could be not right. Let's put discipline sort of hit
because the Arabic word is actually literally hit and lightly isn't there. So this is the
translator is being a little bit more human still far from it though, but you know,
trying to improve on God, on God's word. And then and if they change their ways and not unjust to
them, sure, so basically their repentance, right? Now, in the same Surah, this Surah is called Al Nisa,
which means the women, right? And this 434, the same one, if we go for 128,
right? I'm just going to display that now in front of everybody.
The the Arabic language looks like it's amazing. Like, wow, what it looks like.
It's very artistic. It's foreign because I'm bilingual. I was born with speaking both English
and Arabic. It's interesting. You've got to change your your perception of things you read,
obviously, from right to left. And but it's I do agree. It's quite artistic. It's beautiful
to look at. Now, look at this in 128. This is exactly the verse I was referring to,
which he claimed that he couldn't remember or it didn't exist. So I want you to read it for yourself.
Let me make it a little bit bigger.
Can you see that? That's exactly the same situation in reverse.
Do you want to read that out? Yeah, so if a woman fears indifference,
it's actually it's not indifference or negligence. Again, the translator is being dishonest.
It's the exact same Arabic word that was used in with men, but in reverse,
which is disobedience, right? So if women fear disobedience from
her husband, there is no blame or either of them if they seek fair settlement, which is best.
Humans are over inclined selfishness. If you are gracious and mindful of Allah,
surely Allah is all aware of that you do. So if women are in the exact same position as men,
they don't have the choice of one,
counseling to so counseling through them directly, right? Like the woman would counsel
and or advise the man to deserting them in beds or number three is to scourge them or to hit them.
It's straight away goes to. Is there anywhere I'm just curious, but is there anywhere in the
Quran where it talks about women having the right to say no to their husbands?
No, as a matter of fact, really. So yeah, if you go. So it's just
so hang on. So it's just the man that goes, no, you're not getting none of this dick tonight.
And then like going up like that's what it explicitly says to do.
Yeah, actually, there is a Hadith that says if a woman
refuses her husband's sexual approaches and sleeps at night, the angels in heaven would spend the
entire night cursing her, condemning her. Wow. You'd expect angels to be able to get the curse
done in like one go. That's a job description of certain angels. We are the Department of Cursing
of Non-compliant Wives Department. Yeah, thank God it's most likely bullshit.
But so I say most likely because I don't I don't make affirmative statements about something that
is unfalsifiable and unknowable. But so the issue is, and of course, you know exactly
what, you know, there's a way to get around this, you know, I think he even said,
Masoud even said in the clip that, you know, it doesn't say anywhere that they can't
beat their husband. So it's like, you know, the problem is is like, and like I gave the example,
like Masoud said, he lives in Adelaide. I live in Brisbane. It's about a, I don't know, it's
like a thousand, two thousand kilometers or something. It's probably way more than that.
I don't know what I'm thinking. It's about five or six hours on a plane. And I said, like, if I
told him I was walking to his house and then the next day I rocked up and I said, Hey, I walked here.
And then in the in the future, they discover, oh, we couldn't have walked there in that amount of
time because it would take, you know, four or five days, we're constant walking on a flat road or
something. And then they go, Well, actually, you know, David knew about, you know, pre future
apologists of the religion of deep drinks could say, Oh, actually, David knew that, you know,
about deep vein thrombosis, and then it's good to walk on an airplane. So when it's actually,
it's actually teaching us that the holy text of deep drinks is actually teaching us about
biology is teaching us that there's deep vein thrombosis and you have to exercise on a plane
otherwise. And you can make, but is it the most you make anything work? But is it the most like
accurate interpretation of what's happening here? You know, and I'd say no.
Obviously not. But one thing you also neglected to show you that this was verse 1234, sorry,
434, about the scourging and hitting of the women. But if you go to 35 immediately,
if you anticipate a split between them, a point and mediator from his family, and another from
hers, if they desire reconciliation, Allah will restore harmony between them. Surely Allah is
all knowing. So you get an arbiter and the arbiter is first look, he gets the first
pick. So his family is before her family. So some from his family and then her family.
And that is exactly the one we go back skip to 421 28.
And you'll see that you'll see that straight away, they go to that arbitrary
like sort of judgments, you know, like you get a couple of groups from their both of their
families to to settle the question between them straight away. Well, yeah. And I mean,
and this is what I'm seeing over and over again in in. So just so everyone just I'll just I'll
just share my screen quickly. I have a short of Nuri Khan. Probably can't hear that, can you? But
there's a short of Nuri Khan talking about how, you know, talking about her story, you know,
she was she married a Muslim man in Dubai. They got married, he became abusive. She tried to
divorce him. They went, she can have the right to divorce if the husband agrees, right?
And then they went behind before court, the court believed his side of the story, not hers.
And then she was ordered to go move back with him. And it was almost taken there a couple of times
by the police. Cool, right? Like story. And you should see these comments. As Muslim, I'm
shocked this girl is such a good actress. Why are you cutting the video of this interview was
embarrassing to watch with a blatant misrepresentation. That's an odd lie being spit out of this woman.
She is such a liar, the best actress ever. My wife, who is who isn't going to come of her own
choice says that she's very happy with me. I must be doing something wrong. The biggest lie
I've maybe heard in the UAE, blah, blah, blah. I'm W for that woman, for that man. So like saying,
like, he escaped, he escaped something horrible because, you know, whatever. Some guy in here
called me trans, if that was going to be insulting to me, as if I have a problem with trans people.
But also like, I'm like, wow, like, this is a beautiful collage of logical fallacies.
Yeah, she's wrong on so many levels. Like every day, I'm just getting this is misleading. Women
in Islam do have the right to initiate divorce. You know, like most of the comments here are just
like people calling her a clown. And I'm just getting like one every like few hours. And the
video is actually doing really well. I'm getting like 11,000 views. But you just see here that
you lay out the facts before them. This is what the cooler says. This is what this is her story.
And they go, Oh, bullshit. Absolute bullshit. She's a liar. She's a snake. She's a and you just
like, damn, like, I'm getting sick of it. Imagine what she's dealing with her on her channel when
she's doing this stuff, producing this content all the time. The situation that we're all put
in front of everybody here is is on on the part of the suit. We've we've actually questioned him.
I said, can you please mention the verse where the situation is reversed? And he said, there is no
such thing. And he actually claimed that women have access to the exact same steps. And I did show
the verse where it's that's not true. I'm a suit is in the chat. And he said, I'm happy to host
David and Hany to discuss this on my channel or the channel of your choice. I mean, yeah,
so just an email was to discuss it. I told the suit, like he knows my answer. I said, I'm not
I'm not not interested in further conversations. Because I think this when I heard him saying
that he would like Sharia law implemented in Australia. And he thinks hitting of women is
a bit of a blessing from God, because that's the if it's not there, then men will continue to hit
women anyway, and they will lead to a divorce. This is this is just an incredible apology for
disgusting behavior. So if anything, I would actually consider this as hate speech to be
to be blatantly honest. Yeah, and there is and to be just just and we will move on from this
subject. But you left a comment in the video. And you said that you're happy to discuss this
with real world analytics. I don't think we wrote me real world analytics. When we got off stream,
we had a extended conversation continuing on after the stream ended. And I asked you blatantly,
like, there's a society a where it has, you know, instructions, counsel your wife, ignore her and
then beat her. And there's society be exactly the same society. Counsel your wife, exactly the same
except it says at the end, but don't beat her. And I asked you which society has more beatings.
And when you dodged and weaved and wouldn't answer the question, once I've held your feet to the
fire, you said there'll be no difference. So I've asked that same question in the comments.
And I need a one word answer of you. And if you can answer that one word answer, I don't care
which answer it is. I'll consider having a chat with you again. Otherwise, like, to me, there's no
point. It's my problem, David, it's not just about the rights of women here. This is more, this is
the rights of humanity. And I will have to take Christopher Hitchens sort of ideas on that because
this is half of the worst population. At any given time, the ratio between female and male
is 50, 50, 49, 51. It's always balanced like that. Religion, especially the Abrahamic ones,
have been a culprit of putting 50% of the creative work in population on this earth
to sleep, saying you're only good at home, you're not good for anything else. And you only have
to look at the stage of countries that put women, Afghanistan, for example, no education for girls.
They've closed down the last library where women or little girls can actually read a book.
They're about to isolate women altogether. You look at the state of affairs there in terms of
individual income, happiness, human rights, you name it. I think it's such a miserable place.
And contrast that with countries that, you know, we're still a long way to have proper equity,
not just equality, equity. And there are a lot of countries that are doing better than other
countries. And I think when you contrast the situation, you'll see these Scandinavian countries,
Australia, New Zealand, Canada, United States, and you look at them and you look at the society,
how the society just jumped in all sort of aspects, because they've liberated 50% of their capacity
to achieve things. And you look back and you look at the state, mostly Muslim countries,
with that sort of situation, is completely backwards. And, you know, there is a very good
reason for it. They're crippled, literally. Yeah, well, this actually might move into a topic
that I'm genuinely interested in, and that is, how do you address the problems with an ideology,
but not, I guess, paint that whole group of people with a brush. So for example,
you know, like, I'm critical of Islam, I'm critical of Christianity, and, you know, Hinduism,
and every religion, I'm critical of atheism, I'm critical of, I can be critical of anything,
I don't have any, I'm not tied to any dogma, I can be critical in the areas that I think need work.
And, you know, I'm happy to do that. But, and sometimes I'll see someone like jump into the
comments and they'll say something like something, you know, like, Islam is a disgusting, smelly
religion, blah, blah, blah, blah, and you're like, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, that's,
that just sounds bigoted, right? You're now you're, you've kind of, you've kind of moved from, it's
like, what's that all saying? It's like, what's the difference between like, you know, artwork that
shows nudity versus pornography? And it's like, I don't know, I don't know it, but I know it when
I see it. You know what I mean? Like, it's like, you know, when you see it, but you can't, there's
like, not a fine line that you can say, okay, well, this is now no longer artwork, it's now
pornography. So I feel like it's the same when it comes to critiquing an idea. But, but how do you
deal with that, Hani? Like, how do you? Well, to be honest, I would not call something bigoted,
because it's, it's directed towards an idea. I think things of discrimination, racism,
bigotting is, it can only be directed towards other humans. But ideas don't have human rights.
Ideas don't have human rights. So an idea, if it's wrong, you got to call it space to space,
it's wrong. But I can make the distinction when it, when it gets practiced by a human being,
and I will need to find out if that human being is also victim of that idea. Because I can say,
well, you're doing this because you have been indoctrinated to do so. And I'll try to explain
to them why the idea is so wrong, and what kind of effect is going to have on them. And I can
completely say, I don't have to call this person names to convince them that. So I can be very harsh
criticizing an idea, while not, you know, depicting any pictures of, you know,
or describing that person as anything. As a matter of fact, it might be victims.
I understand that. But like, let's say, like, just to spit it into a category that is,
that is very different. So it might give us, it might isolate the nuance here. Like, if,
you know, you might have, like, let's say you've got some, like, redneck person. And now I'm being
bigger than right now. But let's say, yeah. But let's say you have like a redneck, right?
And they're just going on and on about how all rap music is trash, and how the, the, the cultures
that you would normally associate, associate with rap music, with black culture, with things like
that, that is all trash, right? And then they just go on and on and on. It's like,
you know, I went, you know, sorry. It's, it's like, at what stage is that person causing harm to
that group of people that the person that that a group of people, people who like rap music,
are now feeling like their thing isn't like it's being attacked. Now that's rap music. That's not
someone's all exists. That's not something that someone prays to five times a day
and devotes their life to. And, you know, so yeah, how, like, how, how do you like, because I,
I, like, for example, like, I'll give you, I'll give you a good example. So if I'm talking to, say,
a Jewish person, I probably won't use the word Yahweh, because that word is meant to be a sacred
word for them. It's not, it's, it's for them, it's offensive for someone to say that loud. It's
supposed to be unutterable, like Voldemort, right? So, so it's like, I try to be respectful there.
So it's like, how do you, when you have a religion like Islam, where you literally can't
criticize it, as far as I'm aware, without causing huge offense, like how do we just have to go,
oh, well, we have to criticize it, because we have to offend this group of people, because I just
don't know if pragmatically that actually helps the discourse at all.
Well, these people have to start understanding that ideas don't have human rights.
A southerner living in the United States, and I'm not going to, I'm going to give them the name
southerner. Somebody looks at it. Somebody looks at it. But actually, we think about it.
They have all the right to say that rap music is trash. There is absolutely no consequence
whatsoever. It's actually a matter of taste. It's just exactly the same as you look, I don't
like acid music. It actually does my head in. And you can say that. And it should not offend
those who like trans music or acid music, because that, because it's not an objective area of
judgment anyway. It's subjective. So people can choose to like or not like anything.
But if you start saying those who listen to rap music are absolutely evil and come back,
then that's a problem. See the difference? That's the difference here. So especially
when you show, so rap music shouldn't really lead to any malpractice or stupid actions. But imagine
if your idea entices you like, we've just read now and instructions by God for men to hit women.
I don't think you can go soft on that. I don't think you can go, oh, I cannot really say anything
here because it might make some people upset. It breaks the rips of women in the Middle East
and gives them black eyes and Chiners. I am going to speak about it. I am not going to condemn the
man. I'm going to condemn the God or the alleged God who mentioned that. And I will say to men,
Middle Eastern men or Muslim men, please, that is not reasonable. And I will question the verse.
I will not question them. So I will draw the, that's the distinction I'll be drawing.
I like to spin it. I like to say that Muslims are teasing the creator of the universe. If they
believe the creator of the universe said that it's teasing the creator of the universe because
that it's like insulting. It's making them out to be dumb, irrational, moody. It's insulting
altogether for the creator of the universe. And I'm sitting here as an atheist saying, hey,
stop teasing God. It's not okay. When we go deep in philosophy, you'll find out most of the
arguments against God, the existence of God, the problem of evil, the problem of divine hiddenness
are actually suggesting, and maybe you understand the premises, it would actually say,
and therefore there is no good God. It doesn't actually cancel out the existence of a, of a
douchebag. Yeah, yeah, douchebag God. Yeah, exactly. Masood asked in the chat, and I will,
I do want to kind of wrap up the wife beating because that's all the last episode was about.
But please ask, honey, what is a, a, a, a, a, a, aesthetic, I think it's atheistic recommendation
to resolve wife bashing. It's definitely not to, well, I'll give you my perspective. It's definitely
not to encourage wife bashing. I would say that's probably the best. It's definitely not to say
it's okay under certain circumstances. I would say that. By the way, I mentioned this to one of
the someone I work with who used to work in domestic violence, and they lost their, they,
they were like, they couldn't believe they, they laughed and they were like, how do these people
think this? And to use that as saying, that's like a kind of a step one. But, but I think there's a
lot of education need to happen. We've spent centuries, this is a residue and reservoir of men,
men being on top, even outside of religion. So some even nationalistic, you know, men are supposed
to be stronger women, you know, and we can discuss the evolution of the feminine gods and how the
agriculture sort of Arab was very sort of female dominant, and it was quite peaceful. And then the,
the iron ages arrived in the war machine and men took over. When possession started to emerge,
because people didn't own anything before them. And after settlement, things were, people were
owning things and things are, you know, are very tempting to steal, you know, that will save you
spending so much time trying to do agriculture and spend ages trying to, to, to harvest what you've
seen before. And people say, oh, we can just steal the villages, fortune and stuff. And the male
dominance of sort of emerged. And therefore the male gods and the male male and everything.
And it's time to reverse that because actually we've shot ourselves in the foot.
What we've done is we've crippled 50% of the world's population thinking that this is going to be a
better way of living. It wasn't. We've actually retarded ourselves. We could have, we could have
been a lot more advanced if women were liberated a long time ago. So this is an educational issue.
You can have very educated person. You can even have an atheist. It's nothing to do with God
whatsoever. So it's cultural. And it's, it's, it's, it's, it's a indoctrination. And it can then
be masked by religion or even non-religion. You know, I've known atheists who bash their
wives. So this is way deeper and it needs to go. But if you have a verse, an instruction from God
to tell you that this is how you should behave, that should be omitted for a starter. That is a
God. That is, if this was in the Bible or if this is in Judaism, as you know, Israel doesn't do any
of the mosaic laws. Otherwise, you know, you get killed for saying good morning.
The thing about the other religions is I've had that chance to, I think this is the difference
between Islam. They've had that chance in other religions to reform. But the problem I see with
Islam is that, and Christopher Hitchens talks about this, he says like, it says it's from God,
never to be corrected, never to be changed, never to be fixed. So they can't have their,
their reformation, they can't have their, the growing of the times. So many people,
so many Christians I talk to when I say, what do you think about slavery? What do you think about
taking your little children and bashing them against the stones? What do you think about?
And they go, Old Testament, Old Testament, Old Testament, you know, and then when you bring up
stuff in the New Testament, what about how women can't speak in church or have authority over a
man? That was for a time. That was for a time. What about homosexuality? Oh, yeah, I don't like
that they get married. That's not cool. Like, so they're big and cheese. Yeah. Well, you see,
Islam has got a couple of problems. Obviously, the youngest of the brother Karamazov, you know,
the three brothers, Judaism, Christianity, and Islam. And they all disagree as you know,
that Judaism doesn't believe in Christianity for obvious reasons, because that's the wrong
messiah. They're expecting a king. Christianity believes in, because you always need a foundation,
you see, you always need an anchoring foundation, then Christianity comes and says, Oh, well, we've
not come from nowhere. Judaism is our roots. And the messiah is not what you expect. It's,
it's, it's the kingdom is not from this world. And, you know, you end up with Christianity,
and it's supposed to be the sort of the end game. Then Islam comes to claim the same thing,
that is, the last message of to humanity, yet claiming that its foundation stemmed from the
other two religions, but then saying, Well, they have been changed over time and corrupted.
One big fundamental problem is Quran is the literal word of God. The word, the Quran was
pre written before the creation of humanity. It's like the, it's like the strength. It's like
the thing that's thought to be in a strength is actually the thing that is, is the weakness. Yeah,
a weakness in regards to like, it's, it's going to be like a clash of like, you can't, you can't
resolve it. So there's, there's going to be this divide in humanity. The only way to resolve it
is you got a move that's called the Quran only, which will try to say, for example, that word
hits. They will say hit here means to separate or to get a divorce or to, to, to give them examples,
like hits, you know, like in Arabic, you can actually use that verb along with a proposition
and another word to mean to hit, to give an example. Right. But that makes, makes no sense,
because the, the punishment is, it's, it goes from one level to a higher level to a higher level.
So the third level couldn't be the makest of the three, you know, it doesn't just, it doesn't
follow. Plus the word hit is straightforward. It doesn't have a proposition to change its meaning
after it. It's straightforward. What, what, you know, in evolutionary terms, if something cannot
evolve and does not evolve, what do you think happens to that species? I mean, we know what
happens to species that cannot evolve. It dies out. Yeah. It can no longer survive. So if you
have the New Testament, for example, which is written after the event of the four evangelists,
you know, the four gospels in kind Greek way after the event inspired by God and not word for
word. So they understand that these words can be understood slightly different and it does not
to be literal, you know, and a lot of people are sort of using that sort of method at the moment.
So Christianity has that little bit of flexibility where they can change meaning to suit a little bit
of the 21st century. Islam doesn't have that unless you go Quran only and completely change,
which is a movement that I don't mind because they're trying to modernize Islam to suit the
21st century narrative. I don't mind, but I still fundamentally, you know, I disagree with
God and religion, what's, you know, for different reasons. But right now we're talking about the
practical repercussions of beliefs, because as you know, beliefs demand actions and actions of
consequences. Yeah. There is, I just checked because I was going to put it up so everyone can
so and put the challenge out, but Masoud has actually answered the question like I asked,
which is thank you Masoud for actually answering it. So my question to him was in the following
two societies, which would be the, which would incur the most domestic abuse? Society A, in this
society, men are instructed to cancel their, their disobedient wives, then ignore them and then beat
them as a last resort. Society B, in the society, men are instructed to cancel their disobedient
wives, then ignore them and then are not permitted to beat them as a last resort. My answer is Society
A. So the society, which is exactly the same, but can beat it better than our instructors to
beat their wives. And Masoud answered, he says society B. That's strange. And I have absolutely
no way. I don't know how beating stops beating. I have no way to comprehend this.
Now, I don't think he wants to stop beating. I think the worst case for him, he thinks divorce
is the worst of evil. He wants to stop divorce via beating. He reckons beating will bring
reason back into the human's head, into the woman's head. And therefore she sticks around
marriage. This is a world where people think staying in an unhappy marriage is the right thing to do.
They don't understand the benefits of getting divorced and actually staying mate with your,
you have never heard of such concepts of you divorcing your wife and still remain friends
forever. Because you have come, I mean, we've seen Bruce Willis, by the way, he turned 80 or 81,
he's got aphasia. It's affecting the brain and he's going to forget everything,
very poor situation. And there is a video now circulating around the social media where
he's celebrating his birthday. He's got his current wife. And what's the name of his ex,
Demi Moore, Bruce Willis, and Demi Moore. The video is current. And they're all there
celebrating because his kids between Demi Moore and Bruce Willis are in the video. And it shows
the ex there celebrating and so happy to be within the family. And this will be unheard of in the
Middle East because divorce have to be freaking ugly. They don't want that. They don't want to
stick around for the kids, even though they might spend the rest of our lives completely miserable.
If you're not comfortable to pivot to this conversation, but I'm interested to because
I've pondered this myself. What do you think about the natural state of like if we could redesign
society where we have societal norms and we could go like, click at the finger, it's not okay to
torture animals and then kill and eat them. So we get rid of factory farms and we make it so
farms are nicer. And what does the relationship look like? What does a family unit look like?
Do you think there'd be any differences if we were to rebuild it from the ground up without
having these like old dogmas and stuff? Like what I'm essentially getting at is,
do you think polyamory or some form of non-monogamy is humanity's natural state of
existence? And I don't want to get you in trouble with you.
This is an area now that's very intellectual and I'm interested in that and that's going to
lead us to science because I have chased polygamy and monogamy in species because it's not a choice.
It's where the oxytocin restrictors are arranged in the brain. The prairie voles are monogamous
and the reason is their oxytocin receptors, the one that oxytocin is your hormones for
happiness and the ones that reward bondages and it sits in the area when it encourages monogamy.
If you look at a baboon for example, the oxytocin receptors are concentrated around the clan
so they might have sexual, different sexual partners but they are happier in the clan so
you see them sort of fleeing themselves, each other and that sort of thing. Humans,
and this is yet to be looked at and I think they're too afraid to look
for obvious reasons but it seems that we are happier with, at least in the monogamous sense,
maybe from social point of view, it has been drummed into us. Whether we belong to the baboon
and we better off having multiple partners or we have just one, I think it is going to depend on
where these receptors are set but regardless, it's going to be completely something out of our...
Is this something that we're going to get an answer to in the next five years? Are there people
looking at this or is it like no one's looking at it? It's one of those dangerous areas because
like for example looking into the IQ amongst ethnic groups. It's hijacked, yeah because it's
been hijacked by like, it gets hijacked by like race realists and like, you know, like...
White supremacists, if you get a white supremacist, get it with your hand on that and they're going to
have a sample bias and they're going to choose the white men to be smarter, that's going to be a
problem. The problem is, what if the white men are smarter? Because IQ are affected by education,
nutrition, there's a lot of things here and we know how the black people suffered over
few hundred years because of the suppression of and maybe as a result, you know, they're having
nutrition, education, a lot of things. They'll talk about like, they'll talk about like the warrior
gene and stuff. Like I've dabbled in not like engaging in these conversations but like I'm
sometimes like to watch internet blood sports and the best kind of internet blood sports is when
people are screaming about really degenerate stuff and I've listened to a few conversations and
they'll talk about things like the warrior gene and this like made-up pseudoscience that
isn't really real. I think from what I understand is with the studies that have been done on IQ
with different races, the IQ like differences aren't enough to affect, like aren't enough to be like,
you know, if I was like, you know, and I'm likely in 182 IQ, right? You know, if I'm like 180, you
know, if I'm like 100 and someone's like 105, it doesn't make too much, a huge amount of difference.
What actually makes more of a difference is like how they're brought up, the education they were
given. Do they have like a safe home environment and things like that, that actually...
It's controversial, David. I mean, IQ is not enough. There's something called IQ, emotional
quotient and then you've got an IQ, adversity quotient is how you deal with challenges.
There are different quotients and there's actually, it's not really scientific to get into
and let's say, let's say we spot differences. The problem is the consequences. What are you
going to do? What are you going to do to the... Yeah, what's the prescription for that?
Yeah, and there's no such thing as races, you know, that's a made-up word.
Yeah, sociologically, it exists, right? Like, we can see people that look different in
general categories, but biologically, no, it doesn't exist. Exactly. So they call it the groups.
That's why I call them, you know, it's a human race and you have to, we must use the word race
doesn't exist in biology. There's no such thing. So we're all homo sapiens sapiens. We're under the
same genus and it's under the same family. We're, you know, minor genetic differences and it's
because of the epigenetics of having to live in different environments, like skip implementations
and things like that. But that's to suit the area you live in. There is a reason, there's a very good
reason why very hot areas have darker pigmentation. It's got a scientific reasoning, you know?
It's not to do with one of Noah's sons after some vodka. Yeah, oh my gosh.
That, yeah, because I don't, I think answers in Genesis actually, they ask that question as if
it's like a slam dunk. He's like, well, how do you account for all the different skin colors?
And it's like, how do you account for all the different skin colors? And they already use
medical zoo boat. Like it's just, it's, it's wack. It's well known in science. Why do we have
different pigmentation and even hair texture, everything, the subtle differences, even the,
the eyes, that the tilting of the eyes, why the Asians have the extra eyelids and things like
that. It's all explained in science, in biology and maybe in one of our many conversations to come,
we can have conversations just based on a science. So we can talk biology and evolution. We can
talk cosmology and we talk, you talk things about the big bang. And, and it suddenly relies
that certain science is supposed to be a tool to better our lives and advance
and improve the quality of life. If there are areas of knowledge where it might lead,
I wouldn't even, I would kind of disagree with that. And also, by the way, Nuri,
if you're still listening, I put your super chat up. I don't know if you were hearing,
but I know I put your chat up. Yeah. Thank you for popping in. Really respect you.
She's one of my favorite people. I always send a drunken voice message and be like,
oh my God, I can't believe I saw this on your, because I don't experience any of this Muslim hate.
And until I start putting up videos on Nuri. Anyway, but I see that she goes through it a lot.
I don't know if I agree with that. Like the, I think science isn't there to make our lives
better or anything. I think we can use it for that. But I think it's, it's just a tool,
like the scientific method is just a tool to investigate the natural world. But I think I
wouldn't even, I try not to even go any further than that. Oh, no, I do agree. It's a tool of
epistemology. It's, it's, it's not, but, you know, right. True. There are some things that we might
find out that might not immediately useful. We might find out a use for them later on. Like,
we didn't know the general relativity is going to be used in GPS later on, but it actually,
it is used in GPS because of the time. Do you know, so I have a, I have a background in spatial
science and so work for a Spain and town planning company. And there was a while ago where, and I
think I mentioned this on the stream before, but it was a while ago where our GPS systems went out
of whack, like not like the ones you'd use in your car or anything, but like the ones that we,
the scientifically accurate ones we use in the field. And we couldn't work out like the whole
surveying industry worldwide. Couldn't work out why they're like, why is our system out of whack
in just a little bit? And it was because China built a dam that was so big that it put a wobble
in the earth's orbit. And we had to then put, yeah, we had to put algorithms back, like we had to
send algorithms to compensate for the wiggle. Amazing, right? Not enough, again, not enough to
notice, unless you're dealing with like, you know, seconds of degrees and things like that, but yeah.
Really seconds. It's usually 100 seconds because they have atomic clocks for that sort of thing.
You are away from gravity, because if you're away from gravity, time passes by slower.
That's exactly what general relativity sort of predicted. And the GPS are done that way
to compensate. I think the difference could be up to eight kilometers in difference
when it's off whack. Well, let me spin the conversation around to ask a question that's
relevant to what you just said. So let me just end my stream. Guys, if you haven't watched this
stream before, I'm an ex-youth pastor. I'm now an agnostic atheist. I have conversations about
religion, philosophy, and science over a drink of the guest choice. And one of the past live streams
that we did, I spoke with Mark Granado about time. And it's his PhD thesis, which is essentially the
arguments around A theory versus B theory, the history of philosophy. And so I learned about
what A theory and B theory was kind of. And then I didn't realize it was relevant to the
Kalam cosmological argument, because William Lane Craig, when I had James Fodoron mentioned that
the, I forget which one it is, but that you for the Kalam to work, you need tense time or tense
time. But B theory, which is what we use for what you were saying before the, oh, my gosh.
Time dilation. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, we use that we like B theory mostly fits into that category. So
that's actually for James, that's actually like before you even get to premise one,
you've got to deal with the time issue. And most physics deals with B theory of time. So my question
to you was, what are your thoughts on A theory versus B theory? Or do you know much about it?
And then secondly, how do you have any thoughts on that in relation to the Kalam?
And the argument thinks this is a God? Well, you see, I've actually had lots of
conversation with the Kalam cosmological argument, because actually, it stemmed from Al-Ghazali. So
it's actually had Muslim origin. And William Lane Craig adopted it and taken it and sort of
made it his own. But it's actually started as a Muslim argument for the existence of God by Al-Ghazali.
And obviously, it uses causation, causality. Causality requires time, right?
So for this to work, time has to, you know, one of the things about the hour of time,
time is a very interesting concept. And by the way, what's the name of the philosopher you spoke
with before you mentioned his name? Michael Granada or James Fordo? Michael Granada. Okay,
I know Michael. I know Michael. I've had him on my channel. They're lovely, lovely gentlemen.
Oh, he's a great guy. Yeah. Yeah. So for the time, for time to pass through,
and you need the hour of time, so you need time to be linear for the term causality to go through
it, it definitely requires time. So when you contrast it with the A and B theory, I tend to go
with the B theory, which is not sure of how popular that is. No, I go with B theory as well. But
I'm like, it sounds like we're both kind of just like, this one feels the best, like I can't
substantiate it myself, but I don't know if you can. Well, you can't really sort of, it's still
debated. Even physicists are not sure about the nature of time, and whether it's actually a thing,
because time is not fundamental by the looks of things, but linked with space and space time as
one unit, it is fundamental. But time as we think, as the arrow of the time or passing of the time,
why we can only remember the past, why can't we remember the future, we can only remember the
past, that's an indication of something called the arrow of time, which happened at the symmetry
breaking at the beginning of the universe. So the universe was symmetrical, and a break
in of symmetry happened at the early stage of the universe, causing a residual imbalance of
matter. And that created the arrow of time, the time goes as an arrow. And obviously, the existence
of subsequent conscience beings like ourselves, who are finite in nature, will experience that
timeline. Whether that timeline exists within nature itself, whether like, does the universe
experience of past, future, and present, or fundamental matters, or quantum mechanics is
there such a thing? Because how do you explain then retro causality in quantum mechanics, where
the future affects the past? Yeah, like this is where, so a few things. Michael says that all of
this is, and what he says, he says it's prickly. He says this conversation is prickly. It's not a
solved science. And I like the word that he said prickly there. He also said that, and this is a
quote, a large portion of 21st century physicists lends itself best to B theory, not A theory. And
you need A theory for the column. And this is just, and so this was a random stoner thought,
not that I smoke weed, but this is a random stoner thought that I had one time. And I wrote it down.
And this is, I want to get your opinion on this. Time is a construct that we as a society have
invented to account for the decay rate of atoms, the changing of seasons and the rotation of earth
around the sun. The concept of time is an arbitrary tool that only exists in quotation marks,
in our subjective experience. Agreed. Yeah, okay. Yeah, I agree with that. But even the column,
I mean, even the column cosmological argument, I would actually argue it doesn't even follow
the A theory. So I'm just thinking now. So A theory, you know, posits that even the past and
the present, sorry, the past and the future don't exist, only the present moment. Once the present
past does not no longer exists. And it's only the present time is dissected into into like sets.
But the actual past, once it's past, is no longer in existence. Which means it actually with them,
it will go with with the God who created the universe and no longer exists. So pantheism
will be a lot more suitable to the A theory of time, the one to suggest that God was absorbed by
the universe and became the universe. That actually makes sense. So the column cosmological argument,
actually, as a matter of fact, goes with the classical colloquial understanding of time,
the time that the one that has present and past and nature, because one of the issues that he
posits that infinite regress going back in time, it creates absurdity. So you cannot go back in
time. There must be an ultimate beginning. Because if you go back in time to infinity,
you cannot come to the present moment. That's what Yeah, and I that this is where I disagree
have most heavily with with William Lane Craig is because I don't think we can make statements
like that about infinity. Because by definition, infinitely is essentially unknowable from that
level. Does that make sense? I know that I can keep counting one, two, three, four, five integers
for infinity. But I can't comprehend what that infinity actually is outside of
the kind of approach to get there. I've had conversations with debates with Muslims on
TikTok, and they will say that we need God, we need God, because otherwise you have an infinite
regress. And they say we need something that that style at all. Otherwise, it just keeps going back
and back and back and back. But I say, I don't even know if that's I don't have any way to evaluate
that question. Because I don't know, like, when we get to singularity, like the start of the Big
Bang cosmology and all that rap, all that good stuff, I don't know if it's even a
sensible question to ask what happened before the Big Bang. I don't know if it's sensible to
to to posit any form of question to time at the moment. Like, I don't even know if I can say
before singularity, I don't know if that works. So for me, that I look at this and go like,
this is a big mystery. And we should look for answers, we shouldn't just say, God did it. And
then like, you know, dust our hands off and go, that therefore that solves the problem because
it doesn't solve the problem. Yeah, you see, there is a misconception about going, I was like,
oh, you can't say the word before the Big Bang, because time did not exist before the Big Bang.
Because the inflation of singularity, space time were created. So when t equals zero,
we call it t equals your time equals zero. And the right answer is we don't know,
there could have been time that is different than two hours, because we don't know where's
the singularity come from. It might have been another collapsed universe. It might be a bubble
of the ensemble of universes that creates multiple singularities and some are fruitful and some are
not. The end theory or the super strength theory suggests that parallel universe is a multiverse
could be there. And we live in different in a universe that has which will fix the fine tuning
issue that has our laws of physics, but other other universes might have different laws of
physics in there. So the the issue of time is is not resolved. But I can tell you for sure
that I had mathematicians and and I'll pose the question to Lawrence Krauss and and and Brian
Green and the likes. And there is absolutely no problem whatsoever in mathematics to go back to
eternity. Did you say that did you did you say that you've posed that question? Have you had
Lawrence Krauss on your show or have you spoke to him? Yes, yes, I've had him six times on critical
faculty. That's awesome. Yeah, great. Great time to actually shout out your channel.
Good faculty guys go subscribe links in the description links in the um so if you go to
the videos please uh you just go instead of going to the bio so go to the videos uh sorry home
home yeah yeah um so you can see Lawrence Krauss in there. Oh man I can't believe um
yeah Dave Professor Dave explains is like going off and everyone on Twitter at the moment it's
pretty funny. Oh man that is that's so cool I'm gonna have to watch these interviews these these
these look great. Yeah so so forgive the ball the ball haircut uh this is around COVID like my
wife used to cut my hair using a ball. Really?
Well that's really cool I'm gonna I've never I've never seen it so I have seen some of your videos
I'm not I'm on my Deep Drinks channel so I can reply to people so that's why it's not
um I'm showing that I've watched some but you also have Matt Delahante coming on soon which is
going to be a cool um yeah yeah we're looking forward to that yeah yeah yeah Lawrence Krauss
is coming again in April um that's so cool yeah so in that question so we have no problem at all
going back to infinite infinity um mathematically there isn't absolute absurdity or anything whatsoever
um as a matter of fact the existence could be infinite and that's consistent there's absolutely
no problem and that will solve the prime mover issue and the first thing so the first thing
is the universe itself or existence with capital E you don't need a first mover or a first starter
it's it's existence itself it basically it suggests that nothing was never in there ever
because if nothing is there at some point it is something how do you define nothing yeah exactly
so but it doesn't feel intuitive and this is where I always get this is where I always get
suspicious if something feels intuitive to me and that's the reason I believe it I'm very suspicious
of that belief system because my favorite statement has got me through a lot of anxious nights
is feelings aren't facts you know the world might feel like it's falling apart for me but
feelings aren't facts it's probably not falling apart I don't need to worry about things that's
my favorite state so if something feels intuitive to me um then I'm suspicious of it and that's
probably a bias that I have but for me it feels intuitive that something must have had to
created us right and so I go why you know like well you know who created that creator you know
and then they go no one created that creator and then you go okay well if no one created
that creator why can't we just cut out the middle man and say no you know the universe
created us or like you know you'll have to commit the special faith in fantasy you know like you
you make a rule and then you make an exception for one thing and then you say you've actually
so broke the rule but one thing about I'll tell you something really interesting Muslims
Christians and not Jews because there was no hell in heaven in Judaism you probably
have had some of your expert theologians would have told you we will be talking about that with
it's oh my gosh sorry guys I have to give I have to give deep drinks a shout out now
um also you had a you had a um conversation with Masood debate right um but um just to
shut up deep drinks before we we move on um we coming up we have the amazing um Dr Matthew
Munger and we're going to be talking about why the Old Testament doesn't have a soul
do you like my art but Munger's Bible missing so yeah so we're going to be talking about that
because yeah the Old Testament doesn't have a soul and he's and that was one of the things
that he kind of discovered in the um in the uh in his deconstruction process and his scholarship
so yeah we'll be talking about that so yes we'll be talking very much for that but keep going what
you're saying no no soul no hell um no afterlife satan wasn't fully developed the way it was
developing Christianity it was actually the right hand of God you know the book book of job
what would explain it all you know he was working for God quite quite nicely they were
working together uh so yeah that's good but here's a concept for you to think about about
the eternity in time so Muslims and Christians believe that there is eternity in in uh in the
future right so when you go to heaven you're there eternity right yeah did you know that
eternity like infinite sets is exactly the same in the past as the future so if you have a problem
about the past it will be exactly as the future so if the future is is um infinite you will also
have no you can't come to today will the same problem will still exist
yeah and I just really get like that's amazing but I just also realize that then William Lane
Craig will have a problem with heaven if heaven's infinite anything evident can't exist yeah if he
uses the same there is a call the um the uh I can't remember now the the hell brand hotel I think
oh Hilbert hotel you know where he loves to talk about that yeah but that's that that shows you
that infinity is not as consistent there actually sits within infinities so you have a superior
set in infinity they're called aleph which is it's actually used it's after the alphabetical
aleph which is a in arabic so you see algebra and a lot of mathematicians were Arabs so they've
created a lot of things and uh it shows you that a lot of contradictions can be created
within the concept of infinity because infinity isn't a number it's not a number it's a concept
and if you deal with it as a number you will always feel it's a concept of of infinite series
of numbers and never ends yeah the mojo pose a really interesting question um god is eternal
right what did god do before creation eternally past did he always create do you know what I mean
or did god or is god god without a universe is god a plot device well it's it's a question I've
always thought about because if god at some point and it's evident that he must have been
because if other things coexisted with him they will be co-eternal so god must have been
the alpha and the omega you know he's he had to be so at some point he was all by himself
and no other consciousness was aware of him does that mean before creation god then could not be
attributed to creation he would not be a creator at that point and what is existence because he
does not fall on other consciousness to recognize his existence does that mean that he actually was
around or if he was around would he be relevant does he does it mean that creation stemmed from
a need because of god never created he would have never been acknowledged imagine god spending
eternity all by himself and never been acknowledged by a consciousness yeah it's
yeah but then yeah but if he was perfect he wouldn't need to be acknowledged by you know it's
you would think so you would think so that's what I thought a perfection demand you can be you can
be your company your company actually I spent a lot of time by myself because I've got enough jokes
on my head where my wife just passes by and says why are you laughing at you dick I've got stuff in
my head that I can replay you know so you think why is god can do that but no he needs to be glorified
and the Quran says blatantly it says god created the gins that's the not the alcoholic drink you
yeah it's the fun it's the fun demons the quirky ones and humans only to worship
it's a Quranic verse so god created them for a reason those who do things for a reason what do
you think what kind of what kind of entities they are they have needs right if you create something
for a reason then you must have a need otherwise why would you create and if you have a need that
means you're not complete you you are you've got a hole to plug you you've got you've got something to
fulfill therefore you know you're you're not as perfect as you claim to be yeah I mean yeah
the whole I've had these like similar conversations with theists and we get to the stage where they
have to just admit god isn't perfect or at least he's made himself not perfect in order to be like
relevant or something like especially like the problem with like um omnipotence um like all knowing
oh that's going away now nobody's sitting on there they're trying to go with the maximally things
oh yeah yeah yeah I hate that word hey that's what willing craig is that doesn't mean he says
a maximally powerful or like and you're like oh god it's it's it's it's just it's just like it's
it's the it's the flying to our late thing all over again it's like what can we find that can
you know make this problem go away so we can feel nice like um I mean that's probably a bad
that's a dishonest framing but yeah that's the ontological argument by anselm and and uh
likeness you know the the maximally conceived greatest being and that's the ontological argument
which is like city is like what because I can imagine something greater to me therefore is god
you know what so what do you think I'll throw this I'll throw this at you what do you think is
the most convincing argument for god's existence fine tuning fine tuning is the one place it plays
by the rules yeah but there's got an answer and like you know a physicist and a good philosopher
together I think shown carol um if you watch his conversation his debate with william link rake he's
he's finished him off in that sort of debate he's completely debunked uh the kalamka's logical
argument and he brought up the fine tuning because shown carol is a I don't know if you know him as
a great physicist but he's steel man he's the one brought the fine tuning as interesting the best
argument for the existence of god what do you and christopher hitches said the same thing by the way
okay give us the give us the steel man version of the fine tuning argument just for for the audience
sake and for well there's about 27 now they have been sort of minimized to smaller number
of of certain universal constants if each move by hair here or there the universe would not be
the same as we have here yeah but that but why does that matter like so it matters because it
means that it was planned for us to exist it means it's been planned it's it cannot be coincidental
according to theists yeah okay so is it saying like essentially it can't all be a coincidence
like it's like but but what's to say you know how like you were saying before how
you know the universe is possible that you know multi multiverses and things like that
is it possible there's an infinite amount of universes that just don't have the right
things going on to do much of anything yeah absolutely yeah so for example the the electron
has a certain mass and if that mass is not exactly that amount matter would have not gathered
you will end up with a universe just that's full of gas planets will not emerge so therefore
if no planets of no stars no planets no living organism no consciousness and that is a that's
possible but the fine tuning is a is a is a random game so if you have infinite set of random numbers
our universe is not just a possibility it must happen
hmm one of them must click you know because you've got infinite number set of number of
of probabilities then our universe must have happened or must have it it also like again
it seems a bit insulting to god as well um i i love going back to this argument because i
really think it does it does it causes a problem is if you do accept that like you've also got to
accept that um god created a universe that is perfect for the creation of black holes which
are the most distracting destructive things that we can think of or um you know if it is you know
you've ever seen those like back in the day there used to be a lot of facebook you know sunset photos
with the psalm and the bottom right hand corner of the photo and it was like you know god covers
us with his feathers or whatever like imagine doing that with a photo of a spider they're
both equally as created but like wonder doesn't feel right you know one one one feels you with
or one terrifies a lot of people so it's like you know you have to take the good with the bad if
you're going to make the argument that like look at the trees look at the sunset look at the fine
tuning you have to go well there's also a lot of things that aren't fine like aren't fine tuned
for life definitely not um the fact that the universe can kill us it's it's it's actually
the radiation and everything it's actually trying it's not hospitable at all uh the very
thing that gives us life is also killing us like with cancer oxygen yeah yeah yeah well oxygen um
yeah the sun you know um yeah it's it's wild unless you're you know members of my friends and family
who believe that sun cancer isn't real unless you put sunscreen on and and that's how they
keep the profits going yeah i love the sunscreen gives you cancer i love the water in the whole
analogy actually you know there's a piece of a bit of water inside you know a hole on the ground
and it goes oh my god look at this hole it's exactly my size look at this it's it's as if it's
made for me it's perfect my shape look at it it's just perfect it's made for me not knowing
that the water takes the shape of whatever hole it's in or whatever visits it that's exactly how we
are we evolved in this universe we evolved on this earth so we're suited to endure the issues with
this universe but we are reverse engineering it because we want to understand we would like
to think there is a reason it's otherwise nihilism and despair is coming our way it doesn't have to
be that way but people need fathers and uh when our fathers go away from us we still need that
father in the sky to look after us and it's time to take responsibility it's time to know
that prayers is not going to stop earthquakes in syria and turkey but better buildings and buildings
suited for natural disasters that pre-existed in humanity these things were here before us
they're not punishment and they're not even a problem of evil because the problem of evil you
know it it poses there is a god but if you take god out of the picture these things are explained
the way quite nicely and naturally without having to add any additional probabilities okum raiser
well there's there's the uh the other one of the arguments that i and i agree with you but one of
the arguments that i it's probably my the funnest argument for the existence of god because it's
just so easily demonstrable for me at least unless i'm misunderstanding it which is the watchmaker
analogy yeah well yeah yeah you're walking along and correct me if i'm wrong it's been a
while since i've you know looked at any of this stuff or even watched something like the atheist
experience um but like so you're walking along you find a watch and you're like wow this watch
is definitely different from the environment around it therefore it must have had a designer you can see
that it that is that's designed you know it's essentially the argument but the problem with
that and i heard matthew hunty say this um it's like you're you're you're in a field of watches
like like what you know you look at the you look at your human ear and you go oh it's so beautiful
designed and you compare it to like a rock but you're like but that rock is also designed like
what are you talking about like everything is designed you believe everything is actually
designed so how can you think that you know maybe you can still man the position against that because
like that to me it's just it's it falls over right there yeah well this one is it's very old you know
it started with tom aquinas and was popularized by the 18th century english philosopher william
pay the watchmaker and yep it's it's it's flawed it's flawed because if you get to understand i mean
darwin has fixed the problem everybody believed that the the biological diversity it was an issue
iman welcomes the german philosopher said there will never come a time uh that the
the isek newton uh or sorry there will never be an isek newton for a a blade of grass
that nobody's gonna be ever able to explain the biological diversity and few decades later
uh Charles Aaron came about and explained it all the way that's not how things evolve
people thought things were designed right they are not designed animals were not designed
they evolved and they descended from older um and sister species uh they don't need to reproduce
you know that you get the city bowing 747 inside um a garage uh you know being
being hit by like pieces of metal and parts are hit by tornado and you end up with 747
that's incredibly like naive to say such a thing because biological uh evolution is based on
living organism that needs to eat that needs to survive uh there's a struggle for resources
there is reproduction there's passing of genes that leads all these changes machines don't do that
you know you don't you don't go around the beach if i watch two watches you know uh having a go
then i'll go okay well there's something going on you know they're trying to make them trying to
reproduce but they don't reproduce they're not under no biological pressure to survive
that it was such a flawed analogy but i can understand it was created when humanity
still thought that everything uh just came about the way it is a giraffe was just like a giraffe
it didn't come from a common ancestor an elephant which is exactly created like that is a complete
it's called the teleological argument which comes to come from the Latin word to teleos and
as in something made with a purpose like a mug with handles made for a purpose so he reckons that
the universe was made with a purpose and and therefore it must have a creator it's flawed
it's wrong it's been debunked many times over so so what's your what's what's your like worst
argument for existence of god if mines the watchmaker what's your like the one that you think
that's just never get attention that ontological argument i think it's quite silly it's like if
you can imagine the the the most amazing being before and therefore god exists it's like the jump
is just like weird it's yeah so what is so that's you it's like so if you imagine the most um is
correct me if i'm wrong because like it gets me a while if you can imagine them at your god and
that god is like a perfect amazing being well an actual perfect amazing being would be better
than your imagination therefore exists like is that essentially the yeah that's the ontological
argument yeah that's the most conceivable the best conceivable being and yeah because we
can conceive of that concept therefore exist which is very strange we can conceive so many
things that don't exist you know so yeah i know so you will want some muslim wants a christian
and now you don't believe well i don't know if we want to get like right into your story because
we're you know we're we're almost at 90 minutes i'm happy to go over if you continue wanting to
continue i'll take you to my queue you tell me when i'm happy to continue okay okay um but so
maybe give us give us a give us a quick give us a quick over give us how many story in like
a couple of minutes give us like how do you become a christian how do you become a muslim give us a
quick overview because then i'll read into some questions yeah very very quickly um i was born
to an egyptian father of a muslim background he was no longer muslim he was an atheist
and an irish mother who was a new age catholic you know like you know she didn't really go to church
but she believes in spirits and star signs and stuff like that and christ the power of crystals
um so i was we had a big library my father was a big reader and i was encouraged to
to read all the way from the bible to niche i could choose whatever i wanted to be
um uh so i was not practicing any religion till the age of about 14 15 and then um i'm a teenager
and you know what when you're a teenager who's the first person you want to take on it's your
father usually and i was like oh you don't believe in god i will believe in god i'll prove you wrong
then so um uh uh so before that i i went into christianity for a bit i never really got baptized
or anything i read a lot about it and i thought it was bogus like for after like a year it's like
didn't hit the nerve at all it's like it's just like that that's that's not you shouldn't you
shouldn't be reading you know these are all faith things you know you're gonna don't be reading
out you know yeah but his love was interesting because it was quite quite rebellious to me it's
like wow you know fuck the system type of thing you know so i thought i'll take it on and i'll
just prove my dad wrong uh just two years later he stuck his tongue out and say i told you so
you know and because i'm straight to it you're right all along so that between the age of 16
maybe 16 to um 18 uh yeah at that point i've become kind of agnostic um you know i was reading a bit
now here and then uh then i got busy with university and you know this is the time where
you forget about god forbid and you start drinking and living life uh and then i'll come back to it
later after studying philosophy and in my degree i matured a little bit more and i got interested
in the debate and the conversation and this is where i start calling myself an atheist and
probably around the age of 21 22 and i was able to actually articulate arguments against against
the existence of gods and things like i was i'm interested ever since i think religions
are interesting we talked about it off there uh they're all to be studied properly they they
revealed the psychology of ancient humans and i think they should they should they should be
respected in the way that they are human literature um they they they they betray a lot of our
fears and ignorances and and they they need to be studied closely and not thrown away or burnt
like you know that's like the the actions of ignoramuses and i i don't like that yeah 100
percent like you know i love learning about how you know they used to do human sacrifice in
some of the uh i think it was mayan um temples or some of the temples they are the ziggurat i
think it is it's called um anyway i'm not very good with my uh history and ogeography but you
know i love learning about that uh and and i love learning about karan 434 where you know this is
beating your wife but as soon as someone says like oh we should still do that whoa whoa whoa whoa
whoa whoa don't sacrifice virgins don't don't don't beat your wife like whoa whoa whoa whoa
like this is we went to look at this is like wow what do they believe back then that's amazing
like yeah incredible like abraham what what abraham took his son to go like slit his throat
because he heard voices and said whoa that's whoa what a crazy story a little thank god it's likely
not historical you know imagine what happens now i mean this person will be to the next police
station and will be trialed straight away yeah yeah i want to try to kill his you know i've heard
a voice a judge and that's why our society is sick you know we need those prophets to lead us in
the right direction um forward that's psychism um i often have to point out my psychism um so
so that's super interesting so you never really had like a like a really like it doesn't sound
like you had like a really strong emotional connection to your religious but yeah wow that
so did you go through any like um any shame around like purity culture or or like you know
drinking or anything like that like for me no i'm very fortunate i don't have a sad story with
religions that's why i'm not so angry that's why i can be a little bit sort of great and i'm not
understood in the muslim community when i go in clubhouse i've got a big club they're one of critical
faculty and i because i i have arabic and english conversations and they don't understand me because
the those who live the ex-muslims in the arab world are so angry so angry and they don't understand
why i'm so cool calm and collected they're just where do you where do you because i've never lived
their traumas and they have the right to be angry to be honest yeah no i i i went through what i call
it my um my edge lord atheist days where every i just wanted to talk with everyone and tell them
about why you know i would i would somehow find a way to weasel into every conversation but i calm
down but what i went through is nowhere near what you know someone who um some of the people you
talk to would go through you know like i it was very hard for me but it wasn't i mean
yeah i mean like i beyond like psychological and emotional abuse and stuff it was it was like
i wasn't like i didn't like lose my family or anything thank god yeah or thank you the first person
yeah um this is what i say um so i think what we should do is we've gone through some of the
arguments for god's existence and i was trying to find um uh capturing christian he posted this
meme a while ago and he had he listed all these arguments for god and said these are all the
arguments for god and and i wanted to go through them with you but i couldn't find it but what
i did want to ask you is what are your your favorite arguments against the existence of god
like how did you go from from being a muslim and being a christian to i mean you obviously
evaluated those belief systems but from moving from theism in general to atheism was there any
arguments that you found were compelling in order for you not to actually believe in god full stop
so maybe like the problem of evil or um well problem of evil is is strong but might the strongest
one and i think um mad to the hunt would agree with me he actually said the same thing the divine
hiddenness argument developed uh by uh shellenberg the canadian philosopher 1993 is the strongest
i've come across interesting yeah i don't know if you've been have you come across it before like
the proper i've i haven't heard the syllogism but i've heard that i've heard mad to the hunty talk
about it my my issue with it is um it it presupposes that god gives a shit and i mean the
obviously the obviously the point is well well if he doesn't give a shit there's no need you don't
need to worry about it then like cool but that's not really what i'm trying to get out of this
argument i'm trying to determine the the literally over god claim i don't really care about god yeah
there will never be an argument developed against a creator not not a god because god means worship
worthy so that at that point it's not going to be so a creator who is way more powerful than you
who's concealed himself and who's watching you suffer and wanting you to suffer there will
there will be no way it's exactly like you won't be able to find your simulators so if you believe
then the simulation hypothesis by nick postram it's one of three chances that we're actually
are simulated right now and you can put in the program and the simulation that you will never
you know um be a mario will never be able to find out his hey that he's actually uh what was
Shakira Miyamoto he'd never be a mario can never meet Shakira Miyamoto yeah i mean yeah yeah and
maybe that's not something to do with the speed of light if you think why is the speed of lights
300 000 kilometers per second what what if we move faster nothing moves faster than that inside
the universe the one thing that moves faster than that is the expansion of the mirror for yourself
if i was to use that term not the that that that mario hypothetical though what if
shiguri Miyamoto built himself an avatar and sent that avatar into the game right to wink jesus
wink wink jesus like what if that was you know the case maximum a maximally great avatar
there are a few movies have you seen the movie with uh what's his name uh mr guy or mr nice guy
where he was in a character in the game and he actually found out that he was the character in
the game oh no i don't know that one i my past is in game development so i've got all the memes
yeah it's it's it's called guy guy i think if you google it's the name of the movie called guy it's
got to them the guy from um Deadpool i think if i type in guy movies i'm i'm not going to get a
bunch of porn um guys hotmails.com um oh yeah yeah yeah free guy free guy yeah free guy yeah yeah
yeah that is brilliant movie and obviously the matrix i mean the matrix is um yeah so he actually
it's a game he's a character in a game and he does the same thing all over and over and over again
and one time he actually started to develop consciousness and realized there's something
isn't right you know but it's exactly like the matrix you know but it's this one is comedy so it's
it's fun to watch it's actually brilliant movie um uh and the matrix is the same thing you know most
people will live through go through life and without knowing unless there's a glitch remember
that in the in the matrix that the black cats that passed twice in a row the deja vu that's a glitch
yeah yeah so things like that what maybe deja vues are are something i mean i'm obviously trying to
freak your audience out here i don't think we live in a simulation too even though it's way
more plausible because it does not suggest anything supernatural a simulation can be run by a nation
or a civilization a lot more older than us or it could have been us in the future
rerunning their past we are their past trying to understand their past they're so divorced from
their past they're rerunning the tape to find out where they've gone wrong maybe they're the ones
yeah they're the ones that built the pyramids because obviously that couldn't be built the
yeah um so uh i i want to have you on the channel again i i don't normally say that um
just blatantly like that because i i hope you're willing to come on the channel but i really
enjoy this conversation i feel like we should um we should kind of uh kind of wrap things up around
now and save save the conversation for instead of like going through points quickly we can like
take our time and have these conversations more often especially because you're in a
in a time zone where we can drink more vodka and cranberry and it's not um it's not uh
five a.m. for me which is um it's hard um i will say i do have a last few questions though for you
sure and by the way i'd like to have you on my channel as well so i think the audiences can
expect sort of series between the two of us so that's open away but well um it's a good time to
shout out your channel once again guys go check out our critical faculty you have mental
hunting coming on and dave mcdonald are we coming on soon he's got two thumbs and going on critical
faculty this guy um so uh the other thing i want to mention is we have an action packed
my god i'm i'm so proud of myself but it's also explains probably why i've got a little bit of
brain fog because i'm reading so many books and preparing so many interviews but
sunday morning we have anastasia pereskeva coming on again to talk about um the war in
ukraine she's a ukrainian um a volunteer living over there in hachiv um raising money for the um
as volunteer to um help the people of ukraine as they're being invaded by russia um right after
that very next day um cult of the dead uh with a professor um dr carl smith um he's a professor
it's gonna be it's an amazing book about the martyrs of christianity the very next day um we
have uh stacey coming on um who is the co-host of skeptic haven about losing um confession so her
story her deconstruction story and then two days after that we have you know uh actually the next
not the next day the day after matthew monger coming on to talk about um the old testament and
the soul so guys if you want to like i'm i'm trying hard guys i'm really trying hard and if you
want to support this channel you can click the little join button here you become a member
and then your comments will be highlighted and i'll make sure i read them out and also you
go up in levels so you get to like uh if one if i click this you'll come up you get like different
little um icons for how long you've been a member for so and something like three bucks a month so
if you want to help support the channel that way you can and also we have the patreon that you can
check out you can see the rough cut of a video that i have i've released releasing a video that
i've never made a video this long before um that i've put in so much work it's uh christianity's
lost diversity rough cut so if you want to go join the patreon you can check that out right now
but with all that said thank you so much uh hanny for coming on i have a last few questions for you
that i ask a lot of my guests um and we'll see how we go okay so first question what
if anything would change your mind about the existence of god yeah the existence of god
it has to be a direct direct um objective proof not not a subjective not a personal
experience because that could be i could be hallucinating i want an objective truth that
can be verified through science and other people like the the rearrangement of the constellation
of stars in the sky in aramaic or arabic or or gaelic to say i'm your god i'm here something like that
if uh without like a supernatural event like that like um and i'm just kind of riffing now but
is there anything that we could discover i guess in science without like a supernatural event that
would kind of um increase your increase your the chances that you think it god exists not
really because if it's explained by science and when you read books like the quran and the bible
when the books are so big you can always reverse engineer to find things like you know they're
trying to find now the big bang and black holes in the quran about you know just any similar words
and you know what we can do with words as humans is we conceive them in a certain way and if we
want to believe we can twist them to mean that again anything that is subjective i am going to
suspect i don't want biases to get into i want to i want an empirical objective evidence that
can be verified by other people can be verified by science because i don't want to be misled or
deceived by my own senses and and and you know which which which they can they can fail at times
we know that humans are not perfect that way what about if you're allowed to sin would you would
you then believe in god if it was okay to sin because obviously you don't believe in god because
you want to sin the reason why i don't want and i don't call everything a sin i sticks out of
sort of the marriage of our practice with passion and i don't i'm not guilty about it because
something as natural as that especially when it's consensual between two loving people
even as a one-night stand for two adults to do that still not a sin we're not committing a crime
we're not hurting anyone and therefore it's not a sin so i've redefined the word sin to mean harming
other people and i don't do that because i don't want to be harmed there's a social construct
contract written by the different human groups you don't hurt my son i don't hurt yours i don't
i want to live in a peaceful community i want to be able to walk at night not knowing that i'm
going to be jumped so i won't do it for to other people simple as that i i was making a joke i
love that you answered that psychism i don't know if that's emblematic of the vodka or the
fact that you just got a really good answer to a to a question normally i have to normally it's
you know a lot of people don't get the psychism because they're not australian but i thought
it was an australian you know where it was coming from i got the sarcasm but the thing is you know
sarcasm most of the time flies over people heads yeah so they'll actually they'll think you're
quite serious you know so i'm good there was actually yeah there's a while where my one you
know a gay friend of mine was watching this video he said you need to stop saying the gays
so i was saying it i was saying it ironically like oh yeah the gays are coming or like that you
know the gays cause the COVID-19 outbreak or whatever i was saying it unironically but like
but like a lot of people might not have got that so i'm a good point good point but you know what
think about it gays even you being called an atheist sometimes we don't like to be
reduced to just the one label i think your your happen to be homosexual friend it's way more than
that you're way more than an atheist it's just in the right context in a in a religious conversation
you say that but i think you as a david if you want to be introduced you probably want to be
introduced in so many different other ways yeah um yeah it it is funny how like you know um you
know sometimes i'll go like oh colin you know my make he's been on the big things before
colin oh he's a gay and he's like stop it's ah it's just the word ah it's it comes off hangover
but anyway the question the good question is is he the only one in the village
um so dawn i've had said rather quran this is just an amazing comment rather quran i found
the black hole turns out it's the whole thing the whole thing is a black hole
okay last question um what is the most plausibly true religion that you don't believe in
i am going to have in few in few weeks uh hemant mehta i don't know if you heard of him
oh yeah yeah yeah he's from the atheist yeah yeah he moved from jainism to atheism no way
you have to give him a you have to give him a tell him about me tell him about me because i'd
love to have one that's oh wow really jainism jainism the most peaceful religion on earth
they put a piece of cloth on their mouths so they won't swallow a small fly or an insect by mistake
they walk with like brushes and brooms uh while they're walking so they can actually sweep away
anything they might tread on they're so religious and they're they're no gods it's a non non-theistic
religion i it's fun when prepping the slavery panel i was watching a lot of like slavery apologetics
which literally took years of my life um like it it's it's given me some sort of brain hemorrhage
or something but it um it uh i remember the worst argument i have heard um from a bench
pyro um sam harris says to him hey you know there are religions that don't have slavery you know
like jainism and and his response you know how many how many converts has jainism has
what we're talking about the epistemological approach of a religion not like a
interviewer is weird yeah for his responses it's very strange especially when with his voice
speaks speaks the answer out him and him and jordan peterson have the the the voices of
that bit of a caravan it's a bit of the frog guy oh yeah
i've read 50 books on i've read 50 books on climate change and i'm not convinced that it's a
man-made oh cool jordan peterson uh what information do you have that the climate
scientists don't have you partisan hack i'm sorry the vodka's getting to me thank you so much um
hany oh wait was your answer before we go was your answer um jainism jainism yeah jainism
uh i have soft spot for the orient of the non-abrahamic religions there i think they're a lot more
civilized buddhism is also quite nice yeah interesting i need to learn more about jainism
but it seems like a nice religion seems like a fun one yeah and buddhism yeah well thank you so much
for coming on um i can't wait to come on your channel guys make sure you go to subscribe so you
can see me over there and we will end on the purity panel um trailer and then the um the outro so
thanks for coming out guys love you all bye
um
Thanks for watching guys!
