Hey, hey, hey, welcome everyone to Deep Drinks Podcast. It's another exciting episode. Today,
my guest is Dr. Jennifer Byrd, a Bible scholar with a PhD, a New Testament early Christianity,
her favorite subjects are gender, sexuality and marriage, and her latest book, Marriage in the
Bible. What do the texts say is available for pre-order now? Welcome, Dr. Jennifer Byrd.
Thank you, David. Hey, thanks for having me on again. It's so fun to talk with you.
Oh, thank you. This is a very exciting episode for me. I love your work, Permission Granted,
to dive into the subjects of marriage in the Bible. But my first question is,
I don't know if we've ever fully talked about this, but why do you think you aren't so interested
in gender, sexuality, and marriage? Why is that something that you've just found yourself?
We all know that Josh has found himself in the slavery, Dr. Josh has found himself in the slavery
mission. He's probably very sick of that. You don't seem like you're sick of the gender, sexuality,
marriage nature. What is it about it? Yeah, well, I don't know if you noticed, I am a female. So
there's that on the gender, right? When you grow up as an intelligent female, it can be
quite an issue for you. Just say that very, in general, like, you know, people, it's been an
especially growing up in the South, yada, yada. So yeah, I think gender has always been the
empowerment of people who have been sidelined because of the way they appear. That has kind
of always been a thing for me. And so, yeah, and I think I can, you know, that's a really
interesting question the way you phrased it for some reason. So I'm trying to think, what's an
interesting way to respond to that? Because there are a lot of things I could say. I ended up going
to seminary because of my own particular hangups, you could say, around what women are allowed to
do in Christian contexts. And I was an evangelical, technically an evangelist, you could say, for
six or seven years, very much cared about what I thought the Bible said, and it needed to be
adhered to, right? Even to my own detriment at times. And so that's what, you know, having women
in my life who were really important, who were ordained. And I didn't know what to do with that,
right? That got me to seminary and being in seminary and studying these texts for myself and
studying the languages. That's what led me to PhD work, because I was like, there are so many things
I misunderstood. I meant well, right? And people who taught me to think about it that way, I know
they meant well, but it was under informed. And so, yeah, so as an educator at heart, right? That's
why I went on for PhD was hoping I might be taken a little bit more seriously. And I kind of backed
into the whole marriage thing. It wasn't intentional. But, you know, when you start seeing, well, I
should say, for me, coming from kind of middle of the road upbringing, but having my own personal,
very conservative swing for a while. So I saw everything to do with the body and in particular
sex through a very conservative lens. And so when I started thinking about it differently,
and seeing it more as just a normal part of human experience, right? And not something to be shamed,
not something, you know, we can talk honestly about it. And that actually helps and is complicated.
And it's not always easy or, you know, like the whole range of things, right? You know, I started
studying and thinking about things differently in graduate school and wanted to be able to
help others to get beyond, perhaps, a fairly limited conservative perspective.
But then the other piece of marriage, really, that came for me. When I was in North Carolina in 2012,
the North Carolina had a state constitutional amendment up for a vote that was going to
indirectly define marriage within the Constitution as between a man and a woman. And
that was just, it was just too much for me. You know, I went to some sessions to hear people
talking about it. And I was like, there's just a lot of educating that needs to happen
around this, because people were in public spaces. Like, and I'd hear things come out of their mouth
about like what God intends, you know, and I'm like, what? Yeah.
Yeah. Part of my deconstruction was actually happening around the time the same-sex marriage
public side was being voted on in Australia. And I remember specifically seeing, like,
someone take a photo at an airport of a sign that said, like, love is love or something, or like,
and they're like, oh, does this have to be thrown down our faces? They said they posted on Facebook.
Does this have to be thrown in our faces everywhere we go? And it's just like,
I don't think you understand, like, that this is a persecution against you. This is like,
this is society taking the big stick that, you know, religious folks been whacking
exactly LGBT folks for a while, you know, for a while. Yeah. Yeah. So yeah, I,
yeah, that was kind of, I backed into it. I ended up actually sharing, I don't know how much of
this question, how long an answer you wanted to your question, David, but
go as long as you like. The day, thank you. The day after the vote, I actually made a post on
Facebook about like, ah, you know, and a friend who had an in with Huffington Post,
which was a little bit more interesting at the time, said, hey, I've got a, you know,
I know the person who heads up the religion column. Why don't you write a piece? Yeah. And I was,
you know, it kind of went semi viral there. Oh, wow. Yeah. Because it was a, it was a thing,
right? I mean, that was in the teens, there was a lot more kind of foment around this. And it was,
it was exciting for sure. But it was about, you know, how this amendment distorts what's
actually in the Bible. And so that angle was like, Oh, there's so much to say here. There's
so much to do in terms of public education. And so, because even lawmakers are alluding to it
or talking about it kind of skewed, like, you know, what God thinks or says, you know, I was like,
let's talk about that then. If you think that the Bible says X, Y, and Z, let's look at what it
actually says. So yeah, I spent the next 10 years trying to figure out how to help people
break it down into bite sized pieces. And it led me to creating a video series, actually,
to help people walk through like one topic at a time, like watch a video and then talk about it
together. And then that led to the book. So like the video series, it's like number one in the
series is the same thing as chapter one. And so not intentionally, but it just was like, Oh,
there's a, you know, I have 15 minutes of a video hitting the highlights. And then I have a chapter
over here that's like going a little deeper for you. And it's meant, yeah, meant to be for a broad
audience. But I don't know if I hit a broad audience or not. And I don't know what you think.
No, I think, I think you, to me, it's, it was the perfect level of, like, it wasn't too academic for
me for me personally. And it wasn't, it wasn't too like, Jesus lived in, you know, like, Jesus was
a man who lived in like, it was, it was perfect. It was a perfect amount. And I really did enjoy it.
And so your book, I've linked it in the chat. And you have a promo code for it.
I do. Thank you. It's our, it's Roman and Littlefield family and friends. So F, A and D, F, 30.
And it only works on the, yeah, it only works on the publisher website. Thank you. That is,
that is the site. You can get it elsewhere. But that discount code only applies here.
Awesome. So if you use that code, you'll get a discount and you'll be able to purchase the book.
It's available for pre-order right now. They'll be coming, they'll be sent out quite soon. Is that
right? We're thinking, we're thinking so, right? Right, right. It's in print. I'm told that there
are copies on a shelf somewhere in a warehouse or something. Yeah. So that's awesome. Yeah, that's
awesome. One of the things that, that I noticed is you say that, you know, because you're a woman,
you experience certain things. One thing I've noticed just, it happens, it happens everywhere,
but women seem to get a lot of, yeah, wait a minute, I can swear. We didn't get a lot of
shit online, like so much, like, like someone was talking to Shannon Q. about something.
And an experiment that I'd been running for like the longest time deep drinks has been happening
is I wore the same thing for every single episode for 90-something episodes of deep drinks,
partly because, one, I thought it looked good. So I was like, oh, this looks good. I'll wear this.
And I would take off my, I had like a top of my wear of that and I'd throw it on the, in the closet
and I'd wear it all the time. So I'd wear it for half an hour or two hours. And no one commented.
No one ever cared that I was wearing the same thing. No one ever talked about it. And I was like,
I was like, I wonder how long it's going to take for someone to mention the fact that I'm wearing
the same thing in every single episode. There's no way a lady could, could, could happen, you know
what I mean? Like, if they would talk the town, like it's ridiculous. Doesn't she have any more
clothes? Yeah, I know. It's, it's, it's just these weird like social paradigms that we fall into,
you know, it's, it's bizarre. That's right. I love that you did that though. That's really kind of
yeah. Well, I've stopped now. I'm just like, you know, I'm going to wear whatever I want.
But so, so I've got to even ask what we're drinking today. So you don't drink the hard
sauce. You don't drink alcohol. You don't drink. Right. I did drink alcohol for quite a bit of
my life and I have stopped. So yeah, I'm drinking tea tonight. Actually, this is a dandelion
detox tea or something. I don't know. I like the taste of it. And somehow it makes me feel good
about drinking it. I don't know. It's not very interesting. What about you?
I got a weird, like it's one of those, it's a fancy, I got it from a float, float tank place,
you know, those places you go. I got given a gift card to one of them and I went and floated for a
while. And then again, you can have tea and I was like, this tastes great. So I bought some.
It's, it's, I don't know how to describe it. It's a very herbally kind of flavor.
Yeah, I was going to say, I bet it feels like it's got a lot in it because they want to like
help you deep like get stuff out, right? Yeah, it's like licorice in there. It's pretty good.
I really want to ask you about your float tank experience, but this probably isn't the time
or place, but how was it? It was good. Like it was, okay, I'll tell you, because of my gender
and sexuality, there have been three times now because I liked it. So I went back the first
time I was with my wife and we floated together. And that wasn't good because you're either bumping
into each other too much or I couldn't help but get like in the mood. So I'm seeing my naked
like and trying to tell him down. Trying not to think about your... Yeah. And I'm like, this is...
It's going to be really fun, honey. Yeah, I felt like, yeah. I felt, for me, it felt like it was
like I was at a strip club and I wanted to meditate. It was like the wrong... So like it was just,
that hit me wrong. And the second time I did it, I was lying there and that was good. But then
someone told me, you need to do the sauna first. So then the third time I went, I went to the
sauna first and the sauna, I turned the temperature up to like 75 degrees and my heart, like I was
like, I almost threw up. Yeah. I was like, it was not good. So I actually walked out there like,
like needing water and like, I just like, I'd run a marathon. So by the time I got into the
float tank, so I feel like the fourth time I do it, I'll get it. Oh, yeah. But it was okay. Yeah.
Because that's 75 Celsius. And I'm like, I'm doing the math in my head. I'm like, that's like...
It didn't get up that hot. It didn't get that hot. But it was like rising and rising. And my heart
rate was like... And I was like, that's not good. Is that supposed to happen?
Right. I'm supposed to get an cardiac arrest.
Yeah. Have you, have you done a float take before?
No, I haven't. But I've had lots of people tell me that they're
wonderful, great, all this kind of great stuff. I'm like, yep.
I've heard if you like bars, they're good. So...
Okay. I do.
Yeah. I kind of get bored in bars. I'm like, want my phone or something like so.
Yeah.
Depends. Anyway, let's jump in your book.
So marriage. Marriage in the Bible.
So I guess the question, and what a title of the stream is,
where Adam and Eve have been married? Where did marriage come from? Where did it develop?
But I have this idea that... I didn't think that Adam and Eve had wedding rings or wedding bands
or anything like that, or they did a ceremony. But I wonder, were they married in the eyes of
Abraham married? What did marriage look like in the Hebrew Bible?
Yeah. I really wish I knew the answer to that question.
You know what I mean? Because we don't have any records of a ceremony,
but there may have been one, right? The closest we come to having any sort of acknowledgement
is when you see the story about Jacob and how Laban slips the wrong daughter into his bed.
But all we know is Laban calls his family together, they have a big party, and then Jacob
goes off to have sex with the woman that he has just been given. And lo and behold, it's the wrong
daughter. So it's the whole thing. I just want to comment on that, but I'm going to keep moving.
Right? Like, really? You didn't notice until the morning?
Having a hard time with that one. But my fault.
So there's no mention of a ceremony. Now, I'm sure the women did... I'm sure people did things,
but there's no ceremony talked about or narrated. I think it's great. I've had a lot of people push
back. Just because we don't have it recorded doesn't mean there wasn't one. That's a good
point. That's an important point. But even more interesting from my perspective is,
but it wasn't included. It was never a part of the story they were telling. Even in the
newer Testament, when you look at Jesus going to a wedding, like, we're just jumping straight to
the festivity, you know, like the celebration afterwards. That's all we ever hear about is
the celebration afterwards. So, you know, when Abraham, as Abram, took a woman,
right? He purchased Sarah. Like, that's what they did. That's what men would do. They would
purchase a woman and she was his. And what we see happening over and over in the Hebrew Bible
narratives or the laws or whatever that gives us a sense of what's going on is a man
purchases a woman and then he has sex with her to mark her as his territory. And that's that.
Like, that's it, right? Having sex is what denotes their togetherness, right? Or, you know,
it's kind of a backwards thing. You can't actually have sex before marriage in this case,
because having sex is what makes you married. Yeah. When it's the right woman. So, like,
men get to have sex with all these other women, but if they don't want it to count, it doesn't.
It's very convenient that way. Are you tracking? Like, was that? So, yeah, there isn't. It's not a
thing. You kind of say, you say, quote, you say, if the way I'm describing things brings to mind
an image of a dog lifting a leg next to a tree in order to mark their territory, then I have made
my point. I love the way you've said that. Thank you. Yeah, I remember the first time I said that
actually in front of an odd, like a group of people, and it was my hometown church, like the
people that helped rear me as a child, you know, and this, my eye doctor sitting right there,
and he went red in the face when I said that. And I was like, yeah, yeah, I'm sorry, Dave, but
that's, that's what we're talking about. And he's like, but I don't think about it that way. I was
like, that's my point, right? Yeah. The biblical texts are not talking about it in the way that we
think about it. Yeah. No. So, so something that blew me away very early in your book was this,
this kind of, what does it really call it? It's graph? What's the word? Table? Table, table, table,
table, table 2.0. Oh, gosh. So, so I'm going to share it. And this is something super, super
interesting. So take versus marry. So can, first of all, actually, can you talk a little bit about
before I show it, can you talk a little bit about when we read the word marry in the old,
in the Hebrew Bible, in the Old Testament, what is, is that, is that a mistake or is that, what
is that? Yeah. Is that the correct translation? Yeah. So there's predominant, like, I probably
85, 90% of the time when you see, and I'm just going to refer to English, but I, I am, I imagine
something similar happens in other, in other language translations just because a lot of people
have this hang up, but I can only address English at this point. When you see in the English, marry,
most of the time, the Hebrew there is a verb, lakach, which is to take. And there are a couple
other verbs also that are in the mix, but they're all a form of some, they're all, let's just stick
with lakach since it's the primary one. How about that for now? Yeah. And so instead of seeing,
you know, you shall not marry the women from among the Canaanites, it should say you shall not take.
There is no verb that is specifically what we think of as marriage. So the same take
in relation to taking a woman is also used when God says, Abraham, take your son and go
sacrifice him. There, there isn't, you know, like we're talking about taking. And, you know,
early on I had someone say, well, what's wrong with take? Because at least in the wedding ceremonies
I've been to, you know, the person leading it will say so and so, you know, do you, Sally,
do you take Joe? Joe, do you take Sally? But that's, that would be of two equals who are being asked
the same thing. And it's a different kind of situation. In the Hebrew Bible, essentially,
this is what I think helps. I think we should remove the reference to marrying and I think we
should just call it taking and just see how that affects you because when you take a passage and
you take out the references to marry or marrying, and it even applies to the labels, husband and
wife, if you take out marry and just replace it with take and see how it makes you feel, right?
That I think should be done through the entire Hebrew Bible. No references to marry. They didn't
have a separate verb yet to talk about two people coming together who are mutually deciding upon
it as equals. They just didn't have a way to refer to that. It was much more pragmatic or
practical. A man, it was time for man to leave his parents and start his own thing. So he's going
to go take a woman, throw her over his shoulder and take her home, start her own family, baby,
whatever. So that's, so the take versus marry. So I have two different tables, one to show that
take is also translated as take at times and it's a pretty clear, we're talking about objects here,
but take versus marry, it just, I appreciate you putting this up. I think
when I first stumbled, realized this, and then I started thinking about how much
content is affected by this translation choice, which is what it is, right? The people
in the translation committees are uncomfortable with this kind of raw language of men taking
women and so they change it to men marrying them. Yeah. So is this, so is this the same? So when,
I'll bring it up again, but if is, is this the same when it says take the virgin girls for
yourself in numbers 31, I think it is. Yes. That's a very like brutal type of take. Obviously,
in all these instances, these aren't necessarily the same as that or are they? When you say,
Why would they not be? Well, so I'm watching Game of Thrones. Sometimes. Do tell.
It's so funny. I had someone say, I want to watch a fantasy series. I was a Christian friend. I
want to watch a fantasy series, but not Game of Thrones. It's pure evil. And I'm thinking,
like everything in Game of Thrones, but like even the down to the incest is pretty biblical.
Very biblical, right? Oh, there's dragons actually. There's also dragons in the pot. Yeah,
no, I'm thinking about it. It's very anyway. Maybe it's the sex scenes and stuff that.
No, it's the fact that they're not conscious of all these things in the Bible. Yeah. Yeah. So
in Game of Thrones, they seem to, well, it seems to some people were like, okay,
like some people were okay being married off, but it was always like the final butt seem to
stop. And this is what the vibe I get with the Bible as well. The butt kind of stopped with the
father. They were giving their property. Was it always the case that I guess women were like
kicking and screaming into marriage? Or was it like in some instances, was there like love in
the marriage in the Hebrew Bible? Do we see that at all? Or do you think it's all just
property? I just love the question because I think it's important to get at because people will say,
well, I mean, even with Hagar, people will try to defend raping Hagar because she didn't seem to
mind. She seemed to be gay. I'm like, really? Really? Because, you know, I don't, hey, I don't
think she had a choice. Could you tell that story just quickly? Oh, sure. I'm sorry. Yes. Yeah. Yeah.
Referencing Genesis chapter 16. And she also comes up in chapter 21. But
Sarah and Abram are having a hard time having kids. She's 75. Go figure. Anyway,
so, so as the narrative goes, so Sarah says, Hey, it may be that we'll have a child through this
this enslaved woman that we purchase or we're given right in Egypt. Go have sex with her and
any child she brings into the world will be mine and will be good. And that's a custom cultural
thing, right? There's nothing new. They're not creating anything new. So, so, you know,
rough for Abram, he goes in and has sex with her, right? And they conceive or she conceives with him,
whatever you want to say. So, Hagar is property to them. She has no choice in the matter. And so,
and she's not given a voice until later. And so, so people will say, see, Hagar seemed to be
on board with the plan to provide for Abram's children. And, you know,
I understand reading it that way. But she didn't have a choice. What was she going to do, right,
run away? Because that's not, that's not going to lead, that's going to be hard for her to survive.
Like there's it just. Well, even if she was caught, there's like punishments that like, you know,
right. This whole issue. And really, because people are taught to, to agree with the
narrative and find ways to make everything that's awkward kind of work anyway, because look at the
end result, that kind of a thing. So, okay, but back to your question, were there any couples
that we see that there was love involved, right? We could, I could start going down the list. And
part of the problem, David, is we don't ever in the narratives see the woman's perspective. We
don't. And, you know, part of me is like, well, you can't beat people up for not for what they
didn't do or what they left out. But I kind of can, right? The narratives are written by men,
for men. We're not getting to see what women, women's perspectives on things. Even stories about
women tend to be seen, tend to be told from a man's perspective. So what's, we don't see when
Abraham and Sarah got together. We don't know what that was like. But here's where I'm coming
from with it. You grow up in a culture that says, we've got to marry you off when you start bleeding.
Right? Like, we got to get rid of you. And we might even marry you off earlier. And, you know,
too bad for you kind of a thing. But like, you grow up in a culture that says that's your role,
and that's, that's what's going to happen with you. And if you're, if you're well trained in that,
you're going to go along with it. You're not necessarily going to put up a fight.
If you're given, if you've, a seed has been planted in you to say, this isn't right, or it's
not what I want, and you get to want what you want, which is not what they're being told, right?
If you've been given a, you know, little seed of autonomy, then you're going to resist. But you're
not necessarily going to. Right? So we look at the story of Jacob, and he sees Rachel and fall,
apparently falls in love with her. She's beautiful. Okay. We have no idea how Rachel feels about him.
No idea. You know, we're told that, you know, like, so, so we're Rachel and Leah, okay with this,
well, they worked side by side with them for seven years, you'd think that they might be,
you know, he's familiar at least, he's not going to harm us. I don't know, you know,
but we don't ever get to hear from a woman. We get to hear, for instance, later on, Mikal is one
of the women who is given to David, and that's more of a political alliance kind of a thing.
But she seems to be excited about it. That's it. We don't, you know what I mean? Like,
you know, one of the things I like to say, or coming out of writing this book is we don't ever
see either Testament, a couple that comes together who are equals, who mutually choose it,
and who marry out of love, or for love. There isn't a single couple in the Bible that meets
those three criteria. Yeah, which is very different to what we have today.
It's like understatement of the year, right? Yeah, and like even thinking back to what you said
about Abraham, Abraham was an Abraham at the time, like Abraham with Hagar, I don't know my
old Testament super well, but Abraham going to Hagar, and same guy, different name, right?
But going to, you know, I can't imagine him like going into the slave quarters and being like
playing with the wall and going, so what are you doing? And like trying and like,
you know, like, how about me and you go for a walk down the, you know, like, and she's like,
ah, yes, Ma, I'd love to, like this note. Right. Seducing her into it. Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
He's not like trying to make, you know, data or something. Like it's just, he's just like, I'll
go have sex with my slave woman. Right. We need, we have, we've got some business to do, you know.
So which one of these do you think is the most obvious of these that makes the most sense? Like
that they shouldn't ever be translated as marriage, or do you think they all shouldn't be
translated as marriage? But do you think, which is the one that stands out to you is like, oh,
this is obviously, should we translate it clearly? Yeah, where I have come to with this is I just
wish we would get rid of Mary language because there, there's too much baggage for people today.
Good and bad. I don't mean that just as a totally negative thing, but there's just too many ideas
that we have about marriage. Yeah. I mean, thank you. Like that's, I think this is a great example.
Go take for yourself a woman, promiscuous woman, or go go marry promiscuous woman,
or go take for yourself a wife. It's just saying go, go take a woman. Like that's all it's saying.
Go find a woman who happens to be perhaps a sex worker or whatever, in this case with Hosea.
You know, I, I think all of them are interesting. And that's why I tried to
choose wisely what I would put in that table because, you know, one of my favorites is the one
where, where men are about to go out to battle and the, whoever it is, Joshua, whoever's like,
hey, if you've got a woman back home that you've already purchased, you've already taken,
and the English, well you just say you've already married, but you haven't yet tasted the goods,
go home. I think I'm blurring the line here. I think it's, if there's a young woman you've,
anyway, that you've taken but haven't yet made, whatever the language is, it's basically like
there's a young woman back home who's waiting for you. You better go have sex with her because if
you don't, someone else is going to come along and have sex with her and that, and like claiming this
property, like very much claiming the property. They also, it's right in the midst of if you've
built a home but you haven't like yet consecrated it or something, go home and, you know, enjoy it
for a while or whatever. Like it's just,
it's, we're seeing the same kind of rhetoric with the emerging, the emerged and now dying
red pill movement, which is essentially, I don't know if you know this, like the online movement
of like the Andrew Tates and stuff where it's like, you know, body count matters for women but not
for men, all that kind of stuff. So that's like a, that's like on the forefront of like
toxic internet culture stuff at the moment where people talking about like, you need to
find someone whose body count isn't over, you know, three or something.
Body count? Sounds like we're killing people.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. So it's like, that's what I call, let's say body count and it'll be, you know,
men will, it's okay for men to sleep with like 500 people but they can't end up, end up sleeping,
dating someone who's like, had more than like two, three partners in their life. So it's like,
it's this weird, like they literally talk about it like it's a moral, like it's a moral thing,
like it's like, you shouldn't be with someone like this, you know, it'll never work and all this,
it's so, it's so disastrous. There's so many issues. I mean, I remember thinking like that and
there's, it's so interesting what it tells us about the people making those claims, right?
Yeah, it will never work. Well, maybe, maybe you need to do a little bit better job
communicating with your sexual partner so that you can both make it work. I don't know.
Well, something, something you mentioned in your book as well is that adultery, right?
Adultery in both testaments is not about cheating on the sacred bond. Adultery is about a man having
sex with a given woman who officially belongs to another man. That's a quote. Can you, can you
explain what you mean there? Yeah, yeah. Adultery in the Hebrew Bible, and then because that's the
way it's defined in the Hebrew Bible, that carries over into the newer Testament, sayings by Jesus
in particular, okay? So adultery in the Hebrew Bible is about the woman's body and who gets to
touch it or who gets to engage with it. Yeah, it is not about stepping out on a sacred vow that
you've made to love each other till you die, right? Yeah, adultery was defined as a young, a woman who
belongs to another man. If somebody, some other dude comes along and has sex with her, then he
is committing adultery against the other man. The woman is the thing, the object through which
a man offends another man. And it counts also if she's been pledged to another, to a man,
but they haven't yet come together. So a man coming along through the woods as you do and
has sex with and enforces himself on her or whatever, he's committing some sort of offense
against the other man. It isn't about her at all. What I think is so interesting is how that idea
of a woman, her body, belongs to a man. And the issue of adultery, I'm getting ahead of
myself and getting my ideas confused here. So let me just make sure, have I been clear about
adultery in the Hebrew Bible? I want to make sure I answer your question first because that's
not mostly, well, I think part of it is, you know, sometimes in a classroom or whatever,
I'll say, what is adultery today? Right? What do we mean by adultery? We mean,
right, one of the people in a committed relationship steps out in some way, right,
either emotionally or sexually, physically, right? And so either partner can commit adultery
today if you want to use that language. And that's not, yeah, that isn't what was going on.
First of all, we don't have any sense that people were making these vows to each other,
right? To begin with, we just have a man taking a woman and she's his now and she's
his baby mama, right? So adultery is all about women as property, right?
And the part that, I mean, if I was a Christian and I was listening to this, I'd be like,
no, like it's absolutely not the case. I think there's a verse in the Old Testament that paints
this like so perfectly. Do you have a Bible handy or do you or should I read out the verse?
Oh, do you have it? Yeah, I have. I have a Deuteronomy 22. Do you know what verse it is?
Oh, yeah, that's okay. I'm not the best reader, but
I can read it if you want me to. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, you read it. Everyone take a big deal.
What is everyone else drinking, by the way? Everyone take a big sip.
And as we listen to Dr. Jennifer Bird, read the Bible, read the rape
fortress, the rape versus the Bible. Let's do this. Yeah. So which are we talking about
Deuteronomy 22 verse 13? Yeah, 13 down to 30. Yeah. Oh, okay. And you can pause for dramatic
effect or discussing parts if you want. There are a couple people here or they were at least
who come to my story time and I read biblical passages and we talk about through this lens.
Cool. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. So Deuteronomy 22 starting verse 13.
Suppose a man marries a woman and I always do this. My English is married, but I know it says
take in the Hebrew. Suppose a man takes a woman, but after going into her,
which is so ridiculously literal, it's painful, he dislikes her and makes up charges against her,
slandering her by saying, I took English is married. I took this woman, but when I lay with her,
I did not find evidence of her virginity. And I always want to make sure people understand
what the evidence of virginity is, which is bleeding on the sheets, right?
And then I will save this for later. But as you know, David, I also talk about virginity as a
fully, fully just fictional construction related to female bodies. But anyway, we'll keep going.
The father of the young woman and her mother shall then submit the evidence of the young woman's
virginity to the elders of the city at the gate, meaning they will show the sheets that she
bled on and that they kept as you do for this very reason.
The father of the young woman shall say to the elders, I gave my daughter in marriage and this,
this is one of those things I'd want to pull apart and say, I gave this woman to this man,
right? They're fully adding in marriage because the translation committee people are too uncomfortable
to leave it. I gave her without saying in marriage to this man, but he dislikes her.
Now he's made up charges against her saying, I did not find evidence of your daughter's virginity,
but here's the evidence of my daughter's virginity. And they shall spread out the cloth before the
elders of the town. The elders of the town. I'm embarrassing for the poor. Precisely.
Thank you. Right? Oh, it's not like losing, first of all, losing virginity is like a
terrifying thing. It was for me, it was like, it's scary when you first do that. But it's like,
then to have literally to be the reciprocant of things that were kind of, you weren't
what's the word? What's the word? I don't know. Like you didn't, you're like, you're not fully,
like you're just given away to be married, right? And then you go through this, like you have sex,
you bleed, it's probably hurts. And then to have that shown throughout the town, like,
that's crazy. Like that's, you know, keep going. Keep going. Can I ask you a question, David? Yeah.
Do you think it would have been so terrifying for you having sex the first time if you hadn't
been told all these jacked up things about sex? Oh, okay, let's, let's, let's pivot for a second
to this because we'll get back to the scripture, but this is, this is big for me. So I, I think that
sex was, was, I guess scary because just because you're like, am I going to stuff up? You know,
what if they don't, you know, all those kind of normal things, performance things, but
for sure, purity culture and the way that I was taught about sex, pornography, masturbation
in church, built this circle of shame where I would stay up with dial up incident, looking at
pornography that would load him is like, oh my gosh. And I don't feel guilty. Like I remember
being like 12 years old and me and my friends spending literally all day on Microsoft Paint
drawing a naked lady and then printing it out. This is like, and then feeling guilty about all
this. And that, that cycle of, of shame, guilt, shame, guilt. And even like when I was taking the
role of the youth pastor, I, the first thing I did was when I sat down with the associate pastor
was, Hey, I've got a problem with lust. I lost after people. And I'm, and there's something I'm
working on. And it was like very much like, you need to, I was very much like, you need to have
this kind of sorted by the time you're a youth pastor to my okay. And so it was very, very kind
of shame heavy. And when we got, when my wife and I got married, we, we had fooled around a little
bit, but we had actually the first time we had sex was on our wedding night. And I was, I had,
I slept with two other people, like a handful of times in my teenage years. And, and then she,
but she was a virgin. And then when we had sex, it from, from then on, even now, I'll still get
anxiety leading up to having sex and anxiety afterwards having sex. I'm sorry, nine times out
of 10. Well, at the start of nine times out of 10, now it's a lot better, but like it took a long
time to de-stigmatize last pornography, masturbation, sex, the difference between like,
I guess, like, not to be too crass, but fucking and making love. Like that, like dichotomy there.
That was wild. Yeah. So to answer your question in a long way possible, it was, I think, that's a
big part of why I'm so passionate about talking about purity culture and things like that.
And just to shout out in my future stream, I'm in talks with Linda Kay Klein.
Do you? Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I'm also pure to come on, on deep drinks. So
that's a question. Yeah, I like her work very much. She did some really important work.
Thank you for saying that or sharing all that with us. I'm sure you've talked about it before.
But you said it so, so kind of matter of factly here. And I just, as if losing, losing one's
virginity, like I would also like to do away with the concept of losing virginity. Like, sure,
sure, there's something different about us before we have sexual intimacy with a person.
And then after, like, there's a thing that, there's a thing that's different about us,
but it's not, you know, categorically different. We just have a new experience and a new thing
has opened up perhaps within us or something like that. But I go ahead. Can I ask, this is too
personal for you. Okay. Now, how did, did you, did you develop in the same way in that you found
that like initially you were quite fundamentalist, right? Did you have those same kind of feelings
around sex where it was shameful and things like that? Or have you grown out of that? Like,
where do you fall? How's your idea of sex? It's something you said at the start of the book,
made me laugh so much because it's how I describe myself. You called yourself, what do you say?
You said, you describe yourself and you said mostly heterosexual. Yeah. That's how I was
up because like pretty much like 99.9. But there's a few, few times I'm like, oh, that dude's pretty
hot. Like, yeah, I don't like intrigued by that woman. Like, yeah, yeah. I want to ask her out,
but I've never asked her out before. I don't, I don't dig boobs. But I, you know, I think if I
were by, I'd probably really dig boobs. I'm not. Yeah. This has been like one or two, there's been a
few occasions in my life where I'm like, what? I think the one when I was a kid is a removalist
came around. I was like, why are we looking at this removalist man? Like who's in the house?
And I was like 13 or something or 12. But, um, but yeah. So like, how did you,
do you feel comfortable talking about how like your ideas around sex have developed?
Sure. I do feel comfortable talking about it. I can tell you that this, the purity culture was
not as intense when I was a teen and 20, but it was still strong because I was in an evangelical
community. And the whole thing about sex and like, you know, it's just,
yeah, I just, I remember my, you know, my boyfriend at the time, like,
came when we were just, we were just kissing, just kissing. Clothes were still on, but we were just
kissing. And, and it was just this most shameful moment that he actually, you know, he'd, he'd
ejaculate. It was just like, we couldn't talk about it. And I had to leave that, you know,
it's like, yeah, it's just, but it was, you know, we could do anything but, you know,
anything but penetrate, whatever. And you know, it just, it was really strong. It was a very strong
script that I adhered to. I also, what's interesting, I think, especially looking back at my own
choices over the years, um, I, yeah, I, I was definitely up through like my mid 20s, a part
of communities that had a very, what I think of as very unhealthy sex script, right? So,
you know, it's off limits until you marry, which is just dumb, right? Because you're all of a
sudden going to flip a switch. And like, like your story, be able to do everything just fine
or experiment around just fine and be a comfortable and it's been all limits until now. No, no,
it doesn't work that way, um, for any of us on anything. So, um, yeah, I actually didn't have
sex until I was 30. And partly because of this script and also partly because, um, I'm a sapiosexual.
So you, I actually have to be turned on by you intellectually to really be interested in you.
So for whatever reasons, there weren't that many opportunities for me until, until, you know,
whatever. So I think in some ways I was kind of protected. I don't know. I, I don't think it was
hard for me to wait until 30, you know, to be, um, until I was 30. But also I remember in seminary,
this was, um, this guy who was interested in me apparently, um, handed me a book that was,
it's tall, it's titled, Passionate Marriage, but it's not really about passion. It's about
connecting, right? As a couple and communicating and knowing your own body and knowing your own,
what works for you and this whole concept, you know, masturbation and concept of like just
discovering your own body. Like it was new, new material for me. Um, and I remember how freeing
that was. And it also made me totally uninterested in him because I realized, anyway, that's another
story. So anyway, um, yeah, so this, this shift, when, when, when you lost your virginity, um, well,
I didn't lose my virginity. Sorry. Sorry. You didn't lose your virginity. I'm just being,
I'm messing with you. But yeah, um, but when, when you had sex, was it like, oh, was that it?
Like, was it kind of like, it's not that big of a deal? That's, that's, oh, I know. It's like,
it's the biggest, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And the other thing is that, well, when you made a fun handshake,
well, a little bit, a little bit, but it's like, it's not that, yeah. Yeah. I mean, it was, and,
and the guy, the, the man as well, you know, just lovely human and really sweet, but also like,
I think he was terrified because he didn't know I hadn't had sex before. And there's some blood
in the sheets, you know, and it's like, so here's the other thing that didn't really take him out to
the town and show the evidence. Yeah. So no, I think it kind of tripped him out that I, that was
the case. But you know, like that, that whole other conversation about the evidence of a woman's
virginity is actually evidence of a small form of violence being done to a woman's body. It doesn't
have to happen. A woman doesn't have to bleed first time she's penetrated sexually.
Can I just tell a, this is a silly story, but this is kind of a, this is a kind of a naughty
story. So back naughty, but okay, back when Amy, I don't know if I've told this on stream, but back
when Amy and I were, we weren't, we weren't dating and then we weren't dating for a little while,
and then we like, we're just friends, but we were like, sometimes like,
we're both kind of like in spiraling downhill in like these bad spots in our lives. And,
and we had kind of fooled around a little bit, but not a whole lot. And I was working at Woolworth's
and I was doing night shift and my, and Amy was up all night and we were texting each other and
we were texting about how fun things were. And we started to kind of like sexed a little bit.
And then I left work at three in the morning, um, saying I was sick. I drove home, I had a shower,
right? And I just, I just moved in with this super religious lady, like I'd rented a room from her
and she was in the front room. So I had this shower at three in the morning. I come out,
the roads are flooded. I can't get the car out of the driveway because like it's literally flooded.
But Amy is like, come pick me up and let's fool around. And it's three in the morning, right?
You're ready to go. Yeah. What am I going to do? So I got the car and I drove it up the street
and in Australia, there's like footpaths sometimes between two different cul-de-sacs.
Okay. And I drove up the side of the car and I got bogged in my day-woo car loss and there's mud
flicking up all like on the fence at three in the morning. It's pouring rain. I finally got out of
there and like, and I go pick her up, right? I'll bring her back. We sneak into the house. We've
got to be really quiet because we don't want to wake up this really conservative Christian lady.
You brought her back to the place you were renting. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. And we go in,
we sneak into the room and we're hooking, we're kind of hooking up. And then all of a sudden,
I had this thought, what if I touched myself and then touched Amy and now she's pregnant?
And now, and then I was like, oh no. And then Amy started worrying about that. And then it turned
to us just lying there staring at the ceiling. I don't know that we're now, we've now become
pregnant because I hadn't like, I hadn't like, you know, come or anything. It was just like the
pre, like I was wondering if, yeah. I'm lying there, I'm lying there just like looking at the
ceiling like, oh shit. It has some in it. It does have some of the goods in it. So we like get up
and drive, I get up and drive her home and that'll be the end of the night. That's the end of the
night. Like four in the morning, like the sun's coming up, like I'm just like, whoo, like by then
the roads won't flow anymore. And I'm just like, but it was just like, and we had to hide it from
our families as she was sneaking out. It was just, it was a wild time.
It's a good story. It's a good memory.
Okay, let's jump back into that scripture. What verse are we going to do?
Okay, we can do that. Yeah.
Calerious. Okay. How do we get such right? Oh, right. Evidence of my, of her virginity.
And they spread it out in front of the town. The elders of that town shall take the man
and punish him. They shall find him 100 shekels of silver because he's lied, right?
Which they shall give to the young woman's father. This is all about the men offending other men
because he has slandered a virgin of Israel, but the father still gets the money, right? Yeah.
She shall remain his woman, my English is why she shall remain as woman.
He shall not be permitted to divorce her as long as he lives.
If, however, this charges true that evidence of the young woman's virginity was not found,
then they shall bring the young woman out to the entrance of her father's house.
And the men of her town shall stone her to death because she committed to disgraceful
act in Israel by prostituting herself in her father's house. So you shall purge the evil from
your midst. I, you know, so many things, right? I'm all of a sudden I pictured Amy in her house.
You know, I'm like, prostituting yourself to you in her father's house.
Father's house. And, you know, of course, the female is the only one who's done a disgraceful act
by already having sex. It had nothing. I mean, you know, like it took a man also,
and he's not involved in this thing at all. So that's the first story.
The next, for the next situation, if a man is caught lying with a woman, my English is wife,
with a woman of another man, both of them shall die. The man who lay with a woman,
as well as the woman. So you shall purge the evil from Israel. This is a step up, actually,
from Exodus, because in Exodus, you only kill the woman. Well, at least it's more fair here.
They're both being killed, you know. Yeah, yeah. Yeah.
Verse 23, if there is a young woman, a virgin already engaged to be married, right? And a man
meets her in the town and lies with her. You shall bring both of them to the gate of that town
and stone them to death. The young woman, because she did not cry out for help in the town, and the
man, because he violated his neighbor's woman, my English is wife. So you shall purge the evil
from your midst. But again, it's like explicitly there, because he, what does it say? He violated
his neighbor's woman. Yeah, he violated his neighbors. It's not her. Like she's not even,
there's no concern for what she went through. Exactly. He violated his neighbor's property.
You could just change it out that way, right? Yeah, exactly. But if the man meets the engaged
woman in the open country, and the man lies with her, seizes her and lies with her,
then only the man who lay with her shall die. You shall do nothing to the young woman.
The young woman has not committed an offense punishable by death, because this case is like
that of someone who attacks and murders a neighbor. Since he found her in the open country,
the engaged woman may have cried for help, but there's no one to rescue her. It's fascinating,
right? And if a man meets a virgin who is not engaged and seizes her and lies with her,
and they are caught in the act, the man who lay with her shall give 50 shekels of silver
to the young woman's father, and she shall become his woman, my English is why. Because he violated
her, he shall not be permitted to divorce her as long as he lives. It's such a funny thing to say,
right? Because I've abused you, and now you're forced to live with me the rest of your life,
you know? And then the final verse here, a man shall not take, my English says Mary,
man shall not take his father's woman, my English says wife, thereby violating his father's rights.
Yeah. And then the next verse is about testicles being crushed and all that kind of great stuff.
You can't be admitted to this in Louisville. So that's in story time on Deep Drinks.
It's, I think that just really sums up the property, you know, the idea of women being
property. Yep. Yeah. And I, you know, I appreciated that you said a second, a minute ago, a few
minutes ago, that, you know, when you identified as a Christian, and you, if you'd heard this,
you'd be like, that's not right. Yeah, I want to make sure we address those things like,
right? I mean, I think this is an important passage to read. So I appreciate that given
that concern, right? One of the things about why I became a biblical scholar is there's just so
much more going on in there than most people realize, right? And so I want to talk about that.
I want to bring that to light. And so, you know, I don't know if there are other questions or other
points that are really helpful to kind of shed from your perspective to shed light on some of that,
but go ahead. Yeah. Well, what I wanted to ask is like, so this is, we've kind of gone through the
Hebrew Bible, the old or older Testament, as we'll say. But we haven't like, like, so, and it seems
like the idea of marriage and or the idea of union or anything like that is, is kind of,
it's very different to what we have today. But then we move into the New Testament, and it's also
different. But there's something that I find interesting is, like today, this is something
that came to me as I was reading a book is today, marriage is a celebration. It's like,
it's like seen as like the best thing that can happen in a church. It's like, they're getting
married this year. But the gospel, Jesus and Paul both say it's better not to marry. And so I wonder
if like marriage technically, and maybe we could talk a little bit about this, about taking Paul
and Jesus more seriously with what they say, if marriage should be seen as shameful in some sort
of way. You know what I mean? Like, it's like, I can't resist. It's like, you know, I ordered the
double cheeseburger because it shouldn't be celebrated. You should have got the salad, you
know, like it's, because it's like, so it's like, it's like, but it's seen today as such a celebration.
It's seen as like this pillar of Christianity, where Jesus and Paul explicitly say it's better
not to. And then bang everyone. They're saying that because to fulfill the gospel,
to fulfill the call to create disciples for ministry, because if you have a marriage,
it's actually it's holding you back from fulfilling God's purpose on earth. Can you talk a little
bit about that? I love that. I think it's also, I wanted to say, I think that's more where Paul
is coming from when he says it's better not to marry, because it's just a lot of work to do this
stuff that God's called us to or whatever. Paul is also anti-passion. So I know that I misread this
when I was, when I was in my 20s, when I was in college, I know that I knew couples that got married
because they couldn't handle it. And they just really want to have sex. So they got married,
so they could have sex. And it's because of that line in 1st Corinthians seven, you know,
what Paul says, if you can't handle it, right, then get married, because it's better to marry
than to burn with passion. Well, for Paul's perspective, getting married helps you put
out the passion, helps you keep a lid on it. If you don't have the self control within yourself
to just squash the, you know, squash that physical surge that's come, you know, pump it through
and you're like, just put a lid on it. If you can't do that yourself, right, and turn away,
dump yourself in ice water or whatever, right? Then go ahead and get married because that'll
help you keep the passion under control. We always saw it as marriages where you get to indulge
and enjoy the passion. That's not what Paul's saying. He's kind of a stoic-ish kind of a thing,
and he's not into passions. They're bad. So there's that, that's an important piece of Paul and
that whole conversation in 1st Corinthians seven, where he keeps kind of going through all the
options there and he's like, well, for this group of people, I say you should do this,
but the Lord says blah, blah, blah, and the Lord, you know, whatever, like he's just making
up shit on the fly, first of all, right? And it serves a particular purpose. But he is clearly
made a stance that he is either abstinent or is, you know, just choosing not, he's abstinent,
right? He's choosing not to have sex and he makes that clear. And so his standard is that,
right, that you will not be engaging in sex. And in his context, that predominantly has to do with
marrying or not, right? So, so there's that whole convoluted piece that the word of God,
as Paul is talking about, putting into his letters, right? I understand why people,
I didn't mean to make that, I didn't mean that to be dismissive. The word, I mean, right, for
people who see it this way, right? If it's the word of God, then it's gotta be true. Well,
actually, sometimes what's in the Bible isn't true. And it's not helpful. But we, but many
people grow up believing it is, or I certainly did for a long time, because, because of the way
I was taught to read it. So Paul's putting these ideas out there to support, to support a movement
or an idea. I want to talk more about Jesus, though, because what was eye-opening for me was,
was the chapter that I wrote was doing the research for the chapter on Matthew 19, four to six.
So, you know, one of the things I'm about to say is, suggests that Jesus was endorsing a bad idea.
And the reason he was endorsing a bad idea is because it came straight from his scriptures.
But for Christians who see Jesus as God, he can't be supporting a bad idea because he's God.
Yeah. He wouldn't have the wrong idea in mind to be supporting. So the thing is, though,
he's endorsing biblical Hebrew Bible ideas when it comes to marriage and divorce. And that's why
I'm really grateful you had me read through, you had us talk about the passages that make it very
clear that adultery is about a man having sex with someone else's property.
Yeah. Because Jesus endorses that same framework. And he, and he talks about it in light of divorce.
So what's, you know, it's really interesting. So many steps along the way for me, even as a,
like, even, like, I don't remember when it happened, but like, there've been a lot of
steps for me, like, I, in this whole process of thinking about marriage and the Bible and how
people are taught to think about it versus what it's actually talking about. And one of the big
ones for me came in wrestling with this separating or differentiating, talking about sex and talking
about marriage. Because, because of the way the scriptures have been translated and because of
the way most Christians talk about sex as, no, no, not until marriage. The biblical texts themselves
are only talking about sex when they talk about marriage. Jesus and Paul are, the only thing they
talk about in relation to marriage is sex. Chapter 1 Corinthians chapter seven that we were just
referring to in Paul's comments about whether or not you should get married or not or remarry if
you're widowed or whatever, whatever. And he's like sorting out all the options and
English translation committees have made some of them, not all of them, but have made choices to,
like, label that chapter or something, like advice on marriage, blah, blah, blah, right?
Yeah. All Paul is talking about is whether or not you're having sex.
I'm pretty sure, David, if I were to ask you, what are the, like,
top five things that make your marriage to Amy work? I imagine good, like,
communication and good sex, like those probably in the top five, but it's not the only thing
that defines your marriage, right? Yeah. Sex and whether or not you choose to have it.
But that's how the scriptures talk about it. The only time Paul talks about marriage is in light
of sex. The only thing that Paul, that Jesus is attributed with saying about marriage or divorce
is in relation to sex. Neither one of them are talking about marriages in terms of communication,
in terms of commitment, in terms of, right, in terms of understanding and listening and
empathy and all that great stuff. No, the only time it comes up. And so no wonder,
Christians have also been taught to think about predominantly sex when it comes to marriage.
And this is a tangent, but it's also deeply rooted for me that people today are so hung up
about the way gay men have sex, the way two women have sex, the way they are hung up on that
because of this issue. The issue of marriage is about who's having sex and to what ends. And that
is the Bible teaches you to think that way. The Bible teaches you to focus on the sex act
in light of marriage. Yeah. If you're talking about sex, you're talking about marriage. If
you're talking about marriage, you're talking about sex and whether or not, and who's having it,
and whether or not it can be pre-creative. Even Jesus in Matthew 19, can I read this passage?
Yeah, yeah, of course. Okay, okay. We love Bible hour on Bible time. Yeah, story time, Bible time.
So just one quick thing is that the first four chapters of the book,
of my book, Marriage in the Bible, are talking about the four main primary passages that people
will turn to to kind of help them define what they mean by a biblical marriage. So that's kind
of one of the things that got me started on this book is I hear people talking about biblical
marriage. What do they mean by that? Well, they usually mean, and so there are four passages,
and it's just a total of seven verses. But that's what I've, you know, chapter one is looking at
Genesis one, 22, okay. So, and this is pretty standard, right, in terms of different Christian
communities. So these are the four passages. So the third passage is Matthew 19, just verses four
to six. So the passage itself starts in verse three. Some Pharisees came to came to him and to
test him. They asked, is it lawful for a man to divorce his woman for any cause? My English says
wife, but we should also remove husband and wife from the Neurotism. And what's interesting is
this translation kind of hides the fact that what they're actually saying is which, for which
reason are you okay with divorce, Jesus? Because there's a debate among, between Shammai and Hillel
already has been, it's been well established for a couple hundred years before Jesus' time. I never
knew this until I was a research, you know, like you got to, anyway, so they're basically saying
which is the reason we get to divorce. And he answered, right, that's not how I normally heard
it talked about. Have you not read that the one who made them at the beginning, quote,
made them male and female, so that's referenced to Genesis one, and said, quote, for this reason,
a man shall leave his father and mother and be joined to his woman, and the two shall become one
flesh, end quote. Have you not heard these things? So they are no longer two, but one flesh. Therefore
what God has joined together, let no one separate. And that's where the people stop is with those
three verses. What's interesting to me is that none of that is new. Jesus isn't making any sort of
new proclamation yet. He's trotting out the conversation and the debate as it has been
carried on for several hundred years. He's just letting them know, yeah, I'm familiar with this
conversation. And you all want to know, you want an easy divorce? Well, I'm gonna just ignore,
I'm gonna say no to divorce at all, which is one of the options in this debate, this long-held debate.
It continues. They said to him, why then did Moses command us to give a certificate of dismissal
and to divorce her? Again, that's not quite what Moses was doing. He's saying, if you're gonna
divorce her, you need to send her out this way. He said, it was because you, this is an issue I
have, but we're so heart-hearted that Moses allowed you to divorce your women, this is what,
but from the beginning it was not so. And I say to you, and this is the Matthew,
this is the Matthew and Jesus ratcheting things up. And this is where it gets interesting.
Whoever divorces his woman, except for unchastity, and takes another commits adultery. Okay,
what he has just said is marriage is all about claiming another body, a man claiming a woman's
body. He has just acknowledged the Hebrew Bible version of marriage, which is a man has sex with
a woman and she's his. If you two separate, you're both gonna go have sex again, and you're gonna be
committing adultery on that first pairing. The language, the commitment, the underlying
assumptions about people and relationships are all focused on sex. It is not about what is true,
which is divorcing can be hard for lots of reasons, right? You've made bonds, you've
connected to their families, both of you, right? You have a support system, you've developed,
you've pooled goods together, have everyone to look at it, right? You have networks together,
and it is hard and painful. And if you have children, that can be difficult. Like, there are
a lot of things involved in that make a divorce hard, if it is. But everybody from a Christian
tradition has been taught to focus on this idea that sex, right, is a way that you belong to
another human because you've had sex with them. It's just awful, but I believed it. And it took
me a very long time to even consider talking about marriage and sex separately, to be able
to talk about sex without talking about marriage, right? That took a while for me to unfold, like
deconstruct, you know, pull apart. I've stood in front of undergraduates and realized I wasn't
going to be able to communicate this to them, that they were coming from such a Christian influence
position on no sex before marriage, that for me to talk about sex at all in any kind of positive
way, for them, that meant marriage. And I was trying to get them to pull those apart.
But that's how the Hebrew Bible teaches us to think. It's how Jesus' words suggest that we
think, that the problem with divorcing is you're going to go have sex with someone else. And we
know that that would be a form of adultery against that first bond, which is so detrimental, in my
opinion, and people defend this idea because it's what Jesus has said. Well, I am sorry.
And that's why it makes it hard to point out, it's like Jesus himself is endorsing that women
are property. Yeah, that's tough. That would be a tough pill for a lot of people to swallow.
But the same thing with, like you were on the slavery panel, the same thing with slavery. He,
in Jesus' mind, slavery is the same. You own another human, you can beat them,
their property, you can pass them on to your children like that. He doesn't reform any of that.
He doesn't. He uses those enslaved people as an example. Yeah, all kinds of unfortunate stuff,
right? If I can say, and I don't know if you want to go somewhere a different direction with this,
but also, and this is what I talked about in the book, which this part so far was really
important for me to wrap my head around at some point, but then to be able to find a way to invite
other people to see that. I don't know if I succeeded in the book. I hope I did, or even
if I just planted some seeds about it, that Jesus is representing what the Hebrew Bible says here
about marriage and why divorce is a problem, and it's all focused on sex. And I think that's
a thing that I really wish people would reconsider. They believe it and think about it that way for
a good reason. Their entire scripture, all of it teaches them to think about marriage through the
light of sex, and when sex is involved, it needs to be proper. Anyway, so within the next... Oh,
go ahead. Well, the next three verses, for me, and the research that I stumbled across,
were mind-blowing. Do we want to go there? Yeah, yeah. The next three verses from Jesus. His
disciple said, in light of this whole thing about whoever divorces his woman, except for
Tassie, whoever remarries, basically, is committing adultery. And the disciple was like,
okay, if such is the case of a man with his woman, it's better not to marry to begin with. And this
is back to your point where we started here. And Jesus said, yeah, pretty much. And there is
another place where he actually directly says it is better not to marry. But this is hinting at that.
And what he says is not everyone can accept this teaching, but only those to whom it is given. And
then he lays out the whole eunuch scenario. So eunuchs... So I'm going to read it, and then
we'll talk about eunuchs. For there are eunuchs who have been from birth, born without testicles.
And there are eunuchs who have been made eunuchs by others. And there are eunuchs who have made
themselves eunuchs for the sake of the kingdom of heaven. Let anyone accept this who can.
And I remember suggesting there be a Matthew 19 tent at Promise Keepers. Do you know what
Promise Keepers are here in the United States? It's where Christian men come together to support
each other. Oh, okay. The name rings a bell, but... Yeah. It's a very conservative evangelical kind
of, you know, like Promise Keepers. We're gonna keep our promises, vows, and all that, you know.
And I'm like, yeah, and you're all gonna castrate yourself for the kingdom if you can handle it,
right? Like, I actually asked a man who was bugging me on Twitter one time. I was like, so
were you and your buddies gonna castrate yourselves given Matthew, you know, Jesus,
and he didn't like that very much. I'm like, well, yeah. Guess what, folks? Okay. Not only is he
saying that any man who can handle it should castrate himself, remove his own testicles, right?
So there goes being, having children. What goes for a creation? What? Go ahead. What?
I must have read that and heard that, but I didn't, like, absorb it. Wait.
Yes, exactly. That's what everybody does. They just ignore it.
Wait, it's like I'm just like, this is great that this is live recorded. Wait, so read that and
get like, what? Hang on, read that in context again, please. Because no. Yes. Yes. Yes, Matthew 19,
verse 11 and 12.
So, yeah, it's okay. It's okay. It's good. Not all can accept this, but only those whom
that is granted. Some are incapable of marrying because they. Oh, that's my favorite.
Some are incapable of marrying. No. Oh my gosh. Just because a man doesn't have testicles does
not mean he cannot marry. That comes from the fourth century where the bishops are in
comfortable with this issue. And they have, men have been castrating themselves for the
sake of the kingdom for 300 years and they're, they're, it's, it's becoming an issue.
So they, those who choose to live like Unix, well, hang on. Okay. This is the live like,
this is the NIV translation, live like Unix. So is it like as if they, or is it saying?
Yes. No, this is all, this is all, I would say Christian bias about sex, that if you don't have
testicles, you're not having sex. Well, first of all, some men without, can still get an erection,
or at least for a little bit. But here's the thing. Sex is more than just penis and vagina.
Are we? So there's that. So the fact that we're talking about sex as only one form, right?
No, actually, and this was the part that just blew my mind. Okay. In the first century,
when this is being written, right? Whether or not Jesus said, I don't care, but let's just
pretend that he actually said these words because they're being attributed to him. And that's what
matters to people in communities of faith, right? It's attributed to Jesus. So let's take it seriously.
In the first century, Unix, for better or worse, deserved or not, had a general reputation for
being actually quite promiscuous because it was guaranteed prophylactic. Over the centuries,
women of especially higher class women, preferred to have sex with castrated men because they
weren't going to get pregnant. And men, and Unix, so castrated men, would have, they were known to
be quite good sexually, intimately, with men and women. So in the first century, we have a group
of people referred to as Unix who culturally, socially are thought of as not male or female
because of the loss of their air quotes, manhood. So we've got non-binary people who are sexually
promiscuous. And Jesus, yeah, exactly.
Christians have left the chat.
I know, I know, because, but it's like, I'm not moving it up. We see all these references
in philosophical statements about the way they're talked about as this, ew, this third gender.
I'm not making it up just because it sounds similar to today. It's not. It's they're male,
but they're not. They're kind of like a female, especially if they're neutered early or before
puberty. They're not really one or the other. They're kind of this in between. And the fact that
they had a reputation for being sexually active is what makes me angry. It's all the things come
together because Jesus is referring to people who are the outcast of the outcast.
And there's a reason in the first century why he might have put them up on some form of a pedestal
and talking about the King of God. But what, but very early on in church history, the men in the
church got very uncomfortable and turned it into something else. They decided to take the reference
to a eunuch, which people would know are sexually, sexually promiscuous people, or at least in terms
of their reputation. And they turned it into not marrying. There's nothing to do with whether or
not you're married. Eunuchs could be married. Like that's not a, that's not a thing, but, but the
tradition, the people, the men within the tradition were so uncomfortable with it,
they turned it into being celibate, not getting married. And that is not what it meant when Jesus
said it. Okay. So, exactly. I really want to, because this is going to be like a fun thing to
bring up in Twitter arguments, which I'm trying to get better at people. But it's so hard. I've got
to get off that platform. It makes me so toxic. I left it a while ago. Yeah. Yeah. It's just,
we make our choices. You do, yeah. Yeah. So it says to live like eunuchs,
like the word like they, if I was a fundamentalist Christian, I'm say like, well, no, it's just
saying not to have sex, not to, is that, is that translation, they're correct to live like eunuchs?
I don't think it is. But what I will do is, if you can give me a second, I can pull it out into
the, this, my computer will move slowly here for a second. But this is so annoying, by the way.
I get a, I get a bloody, I have a strong second cordons. And I'm like, no, that sucks. So then I
get an interlinear and they're like, ah, like the further I dig into it, it's like, no, no, no,
you need this special application that has like the, and I'm like, oh my, like, it's like this,
it actually is a lot harder than you think. It's, it's not like you have like a perfect
parchment and you go, this Greek word means this, like this, you know, so. No, it's true. It is
complicated. All right. Let me see. Let me get rid of that one. So I don't have my Greek handy. I
don't think, oh wait. Yes, I do. Part which verse 12, for their first 12 Matthew 19 verse 12, for
there are eunuchs who are born that way. And there are eunuchs who have been made eunuchs by
others. And there are those who choose to live like eunuchs for the sake of the kingdom. That's
interesting. That's fascinating. Okay. So, so the NRSV says there are, well, the NRSV says there
are eunuchs who have made themselves eunuchs for the sake of the kingdom. And let's see what it says
in the Greek. And there are eunuchs who have made themselves eunuchs for the sake of the kingdom
of heaven. Yeah. That's what it says in the Greek. So they've been sneaky. Totally. All the time.
No, all the time. Whoa. There are so many ways the translation committee people have been sneaky
that we're not aware of unless we start looking at things like this, right?
Damn. When you see 1 Corinthians 7, and the heading says advice on marriage, what are you
thinking? Like, what are you going to do as soon as you start reading? You're thinking of this is
this is about marriage. I'm going to read this through the lens of this is about marriage.
Of course, you that was such an innocent, but not really
shift, right? Yeah, yeah. That's not really about marriage. This is about sex and whether or not
people Paul wants people having it, basically. Oh, it's a bit of a buzzkill, isn't he?
He's a bit of a control freak. Yeah. He's a bit of a narcissistic control freak.
Just to quickly wrap up, because we weren't going to go over 90 minutes. And
I remember when I was talking to, you know, I was part of a church that the Bible was kind of
secondary to whatever the Holy Spirit, like we'd always go back to the Bible, but like
people figured out things from the Holy Spirit and through God. And I remember talking to
someone, a male kind of leader, asking them, we're kind of just talking about sex and we're
talking about what purity is. And like, can you just do anything after sex? Like, can you dress up
like a police officer or a nurse? When you're married? Is it all legal? Yeah, is it all legal?
And we said, I don't know how we got into some pictures of like, no, that's not okay,
because you're lusting over someone else. And they said specifically that, like anal sex,
butt stuff was essentially not okay. And I was like, well, and I was like, okay, and then I
referenced the scriptures and the sodomy and I was like, oh, okay. And then they said, I said,
yeah, they referenced the scriptures and the sodomy and I said, okay, so, and then I asked,
so, and then we talked about oral sex later. And they said, yeah, oral sex is fine. And they said
to me, you'll know, like the Holy Spirit will tell you what's okay and what's not okay. You'll
know, like if you ever wanted to do, you know, kinky sex or butt stuff or whatever, you'll know
whether or not it's okay, right? And then I went away and I was like, well, that's interesting,
like, I'll look at these verses. And then I find out that sodomy refers to oral sex as well. And
I was like, wait a minute, the Holy Spirit told him that oral sex is okay. And then butt stuff is
not okay. Like, and I'm like, this is, this is crazy. I was like, is the Holy Spirit lying to him?
Like, this is, you know, and so, and this goes right back to what you're saying about, like,
the sex acts is what becomes important. And this goes right back to, you know, talking about,
you know, different nontraditional forms of sex, we're talking about homosexuality, homosexual
marriage and things like that. And can you just, you kind of wrap up the Bible with the,
oh, you're not the Bible, you wrap up your book with the only heteros chapter. Could you
brief explanation of what you cover that? Are you sure you want me to? Yeah, go for it.
And everyone, and just, just, just before we do do that, make sure you go get the book. The book is
incredibly easy to read. It's incredibly insightful. The, could you post the, the code again?
You will get a discount if you use this code. And it's the, it's pinned up the top and I'll make
sure that I, well, I'll start this so it's at the end of the episode. But here we go.
But that's the code. Use that and you'll get a discount on the book, but definitely,
definitely check that, definitely pre-order. And then let, let Dr. Jennifer know that you
have bought it wherever you Instagram. That's fun. Yeah, that's really fun if you do that.
If you want to go a little bit over 90 so we can do some questions, we can do that too. I,
I just want to, yeah, I'm doing okay mentally. It's been a long day, but I could, I could do
that if you want. But I, you know, you and I were talking about this before and I, I,
there's this part of me that the only heteros chapter was another one that was fun for me and
also developed over multiple years because it took me a couple steps. Like I had to take in
some of the content of the only heteros chapter one bite at a time. I mean, right? I mean, I went
to seminary and then I, six years of graduate school after seminary and it's still like some
of these ideas that I'm putting in chapter 10 for people to hear or read all at once took me,
right? I'd been focused my life on this and I still had to take it one bite at a time before I
could like, right? You know what I'm saying? So it's, so, but at the same time, I feel like we
should, that's exactly why it does need to be out there. Like it shouldn't have been foreign to me
what's in this chapter. Do you know what I'm saying? Like it shouldn't have been something that
people had been directing me not to see that when we look at the language of the letter Philemon,
for instance, there's a lot going on in that letter, rhetorically speaking, that's just between the
lines. Paul is, I mean, I don't know how to say this without just saying it, but like I've had
students who did not grow up in a church read the letter Philemon and this is a letter that's
written from Paul to a guy named Philemon and his, about his runaway slave. So Philemon's runaway
slave came to find Paul. They had a thing going on, whatever that was, Paul sends a runaway slave
back to his master. This is one of those things where yeah, just not, not clear about how that
goes down for an SMS, the enslaved person, but also the language in the letter is such that Paul is
like a domineering lover to Philemon and a Nesimus maybe steps in the gap between the two of them.
He's going to come visit him soon. I've had students straight up not asking. I was not
looking for it and they'd say, why does Paul have an issue with homosexuality in Romans chapter one
if he wrote this letter? Like it was so obvious to them that there's something going on, very
intimate between Philemon and Paul that this was a letter that Paul did not want discovered. You
know what I mean? Like, and I don't say that because I need that to be the case. I say that
because that's what the rhetoric says. The rhetoric, if you're paying attention, he's playing with ideas.
There's in the first set, you know, in Paul's context, enslaved peoples just like they haven't
ever since and just like they were prior to that enslaved peoples were used for sex. That was
one of the things about enslaved peoples, male or female is you knew that you might be a receptacle
for your master. So Paul is talking about this runaway slave using playing with the runaway
slaves own name, which is useful. And what is the primary thing they're useful for? Labor, secondary
sex. Like that's a given in the first century. It made me so uncomfortable the first time I had to
encounter this idea. I didn't want it to be true. That's Paul using a person and like talking about
that. And it's like, Oh my gosh, having sex with a man. And what do I do with that?
Wait, is that like was Paul the thorn the side guy? Yeah. Is that is that maybe the thorn in
his side that he that he had, he had those longings and he thought it was wrong? Yeah.
Did you just say a joke that I missed? Oh, I don't know. But it's always it's funny. It's always
the isn't always the homophobe person ends up having like a secret. Precisely. Of course, because
and in particular, because that the scriptures do suggest do teach people to be homophobic, right?
We can explain away. This is way off topic on this one, but we can explain away if we want to
do something like Leviticus 1822. Yeah, I can talk about that in terms of they need to procreate
yada yada. But there's still a film of homophobia on that on those two verses Leviticus 1822 and
Leviticus 2013. There's still some homophobia in there because of all these issues of people not
knowing what to do about sex and bodies and not having these understanding of this is just a normal
thing and it's not contagious and all that kind of stuff, right? So Paul is going to grow up thinking
that way of people and of himself. So he's of course, he's going to internalize a hatred for
that thing, even if it is a part of himself. Did that make sense? Or are you? Yeah, it did. So,
so let's say, you know, the first person I ever interviewed on this on on deep drinks was my
friend closer to homosexual 45 years. Oh, my gosh. Yeah. Yeah. And now he's in a long term
relationship. Great. And he's out and he's happy. He's still a Christian. But so, you know, maybe
to someone who is like, who is a Christian, they've grown up thinking that this is it's always been
wrong. They're attracted to people of the same sex. Like, what do you say to someone like that?
Are you the kind of person who will say homosexuality is fine, do whatever you want,
or you're the kind of person that says, you know, from a Christian perspective, a moral
thing, or you're the kind of person that says, these are way more complicated than you think.
And like, what would you, what advice would you give to someone like that?
I do, I do think that
well, I am fully supportive of people and their sexualities, whatever they may be.
Obviously, I don't think of situations where you are in a position of power over someone else is
appropriate. And that that's, and I'm also just going to say, and that would include an animal.
So when people start to like throw bestiality into the same mix as
homosexuality and bisexuality, like it just it, it unnerves me because I'm like, are you kidding me?
Like, yeah. So I just want to throw that out there.
That's, that's, that's just, I mean, realize that comes from the Bible. Hey, because it's like,
because it's the next verse. Yeah, that's why. Yeah, that's why. I wonder if that, if that wasn't
the next verse, I wonder if there would be such a hatred for it. Like that is so, whoa, that's
again, keep going. Yeah, right. So I'm, we'll see. I'm, I'm, I'm very sex positive. Okay.
I think we should be able, I think we should talk about it more. I think we should talk about,
you know, I have some friends who do or doing just some very honest sex education for teenage,
for youth groups and things like that. Kara Hogg, HAUG is doing it,
person I'm thinking of a couple others as well. But like, we're not given, at least my experience
is growing up in that of many people in it. We're not given a chance to just be honest about our
bodily desires and functions and yearnings. And so all of the, all of the pieces about,
you know, lusting after someone as if, first of all, as if you have control over that. Okay,
you can decide what to do with that. But that's a thing that happens. Like that's just human bodies.
Can we stop shaming human realities? Please. You know, so whatever the, whatever the attraction is,
right? I'm going to say for other humans, but like, you know,
like that's just how you're wired. And I don't think that that's a thing to be ashamed of. I
don't think that's a thing to, you know what I mean? And I think that that's just, I think there's
there's a piece there where we just need to stop putting things in categories and limiting things
and talking about this and that and allowing the language of allowing is just driving me crazy,
you know? So that's what I really like about how you say mostly heterosexual because I think that's
because and Dr. Cheryl said homosexuality is only one on the spectrum of human sexuality. And it's
so true. It's, it's like something I've heard recently is humans are going to human and like
humans are complicated and you have this, humans wrote the Bible and it was a very specific
perspective in every single verse and every single book. You know, so it's, you know, I'm not,
I'm not a Christian, but if I was, if someone wanted to remain a Christian and, you know, look
at these verses, I would, I would just say that it's not something, this is advice I always give
but like don't, don't try and enjoy your life because there's a time where myself now would be
the worst nightmare for my Christian self and my might become going back to my Christian self would
be the worst nightmare I have now. So I'm just trying to just try and enjoy your life whereas
that don't take things too seriously. The world is not going to fall apart man. Yeah. And I think
at least the Bible scholar in me wants to say there are some ancient ideas in this book called
the Bible and I think we need to be able to call out the ones that we know better than today.
And I know that scares some people. Just what I've said as like, oh, like she knows better than
God or whatever. I'm like, all right, Kim, let me just take a chill pill. You're like, yeah,
so we've got some ancient ideas about relationships. We've been talking about it for an hour and a
half, right? We made our property, like all this stuff. There's no, you know, so yeah, I agree
with you on the enjoy yourself. But I also just, I really want people to be able to
think beyond, to not have to abide by what the Bible says when it comes to sex.
Permission granted, which people should go read your other book as well. It's on Audible. Are
you going to do an Audible version of this one? I am. I am. So good. So good. I'll have to
re-listen to it when that comes out. Let's um, let's sort of go over two months. Let's um, I've
got a super chat from Jason Rollins, who's actually one of the archbishops on the patron,
Dietrich's patron, but he said a fabulous super chat saying, does Dr. Bird have an opinion on why
we translate Eve's name as Eve? Name translations seem arbitrary to me, Yeshua, Jesus, Jacob, James.
And I think they're like an hour behind because they commented and said, sorry, I'm like an hour
behind. So yeah, so good. Yeah, that's fun. Um, so well, I mean, we could, we could take,
the Jacob James is a little bit, a little bit more than Heva to Eve. So Eve's name is Heva.
I could actually go look it up again, just to make sure. But it's, it's actually a fairly close
transliteration. That's, um, I'm not trying to be picky here, but that is what we call it. When we
try to take from one language and transliterate, we take the sound here in this letter and put it
into the, the letter that we would use for that sound, right? So that's what we've done with, like,
Jacob in, um, the Hebrew Bible, which ends up being is Yaakov, right? And so we transliterate
that. What is Ya? We don't, you know, so we've either a Y or a J because of the German influence,
actually, and all these things are going on. So Jacob in the Hebrew Bible is Yaakov. That's
pretty similar, right? Abram is the original name of Abraham. So Abram, Abram, that's pretty close
transliteration. So Eve is the same. I would want to look it up in the Hebrew Bible, just to make
sure, but my sense is it's Heba. Do you read, you read Greek, yeah? Or do you not read Greek?
I can read it and translate some. I mean, I'm not as good as I used to be as a graduate student,
but Greek and Hebrew, and I took Aramaic as well. Is it, is it hard to learn? Which was the hardest
of those three? I loved Hebrew. It is a beautiful language, the biblical Hebrew. I, I don't know
why I found it so beautiful. Um, and I wish I, you know, I, I enjoyed it more than Greek,
but I, Greek is very systematic. I studied Latin in high, in middle school. So Latin and Greek are
kind of interesting to me. Um, I like languages. So it was fun for me to do both. Yeah. Yeah,
I went to go learn Greek and I was like, ah, maybe I should go learn, um, French first. So I, I, I,
I was a few hundred days into that on Duolingo or something. So I went back to learning French
and then that got really frustrating after. Yeah, I, I would say German or Latin.
Well, yeah, Latin and Greek are a lot. Well, the thing is, it's so annoying because I, I chose
French because I wanted to, like, I was, what language, I want to learn a different language.
I chose French because, um, I was like, I was like, Jules Verne, his, his novels are written in,
and I was like, cool. But now I'm like way more into the, you know, biblical stuff. And I was
like, oh man, and my family, they're all learning German. I'm like, this is annoying. And one of
my favorite bands is Ramstein, heavy metal band. And I was like, I could have learned. I was like,
why not choose German? Anyway, one day I might choose another language. But we have another
super chat from Iqou El. Uh, thank you so much for the final super chat. I took a vow of celibacy
and my 50 and one slash none of the satanic temple. Interesting. Yeah. Interesting. I mean,
you should learn more about that. I know. I feel like asking you all kinds of questions, but, um,
um, you know, and it is interesting to me how sex and the choosing not, and this isn't about you,
Earl, I can't eat, but, um, it is interesting how over the centuries, right? This idea of
celibacy, um, is linked for a lot of people to, um, an, an ability, perhaps. Oh my gosh,
I thought you're being serious. Oh my God. That's hilarious. Did you want to put her comment? Yeah.
Yeah. Do you, do you know this person and they're regular? Yeah. They're always here.
Okay. Nice. Nice. You could have warned me, David. I thought she was serious.
Well, I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. You never know. People surprise you.
I'm like, what up with her in like real life or anything, but, um, but yeah, we'll see all the
times. Yeah. Fantastic. Uh, we actually have a, we've have got, just as we're ending, we have all
the, uh, we have like Dr. Kip comes here. Did someone say Rammstein, um, podcast,
is that, is that, uh, an offensive, um, emoji, the bird there, or is that funny? Or is that funny?
Yeah. I'm not easily offended, especially not by a friend. Like if a friend says something that's
like crass or whatever, I'm just going to roll with it because life is too short. You know what I'm
saying? Yeah. Yeah. Well, uh, this has been fantastic. We need to get you on, um, again. Uh,
I mean, but you don't need to wait for your next book to come out. This is so much, I've
gotten pages, more notes that we could have gone through, but half of this another time. But
thank you so much, uh, Dr. Jennifer Burr for coming out guys. Make sure you check out a book.
It's fantastic. You also have a YouTube channel and a website, Instagram links are in the
description. Make sure you check it out. And let me just quickly star. Remember, that's the code.
Use that code. You get a, um, a discount. Oh, we have a, we have another super chat. Okay. The last
super chat. Yep. Thanks. Hang for She, 20 goals coming in with a super chat. Uh, can we ever have
equal, uh, sorry, equity such justice when so many of our stories literally crush women,
for example, Eve had zero agency, um, and she didn't choose Adam and then she gets whacked by
Yahweh. How do we, uh, we ever, this, how do we ever, this effect moving to go forward? Yeah.
The same with, um, you know, I've heard a lot of, it means it's a very atheist tip fedora point,
but it's like, it's the idea of, um, uh, like, like, uh, was that the Holy Spirit, um, didn't get
consent, um, with, uh, Mary. And that's like, yeah, things like, you know, but that's, that's a,
that's a point that a lot of people bring up. Like, so what do you think about this comment?
Oh, no, I think, I mean, I'm right there with you. Can we, how can we, what do we do? Right.
So many of these stories have, are meeting a patriarchal narratives agenda. There's no question
in my mind about that. I'm right there with you. Right. I, I, and that's why I do what I do, which
is I try to highlight over and over the problematic elements of these scriptures. I've spent enough
of my life trying to be nicey nice about it and even trying to convert people into trying to like,
you know, take a particular stance on this, but I'm an educator. I want to, and so I'm doing a
live stream. I do it twice a week. I read, I read passages and we talk about the problem
through this lens of sex and marriage and physical intimate engagements that involve physical harm.
So right there with you on your question, I think that's actually part of why we're struggling to
address these elements within our culture still, like we are still, I mean, there's not a global
me too movement in the 21st century, unless you have very deeply rooted stories and ideas that are
teaching you unconsciously to think about men and women and these really unhelpful ways for
either group. Right. And so we're teaching people to think this way and growing up this blah, blah,
blah. I also, you know, so I think that's one of the reasons I'm a biblical scholars to highlight
these things and say, let's talk about this. Let's think about this. You do not have to continue
to perpetuate this way of thinking, but let's be honest about the fact that it is going to affect
your way of thinking. Right. The other thing I want to point out, which is, is this, I actually
think Eve has a bit more autonomy than you do. And that's okay that we disagree on that. I kind
of like it. Well, I know that that's, I don't even, I haven't even thought about it. I just know.
No, no, no, I'm not, not you. I'm at Hang Fush. Yeah. Hang. Oh, yeah. Sorry. Sorry. Yeah. No,
no, no. I, we think differently. And that's great. I would invite you to go read chapters two, three
in my book, permission granted, because hang fushy, sorry. Yeah, right. She does get whacked for
falling into trap. But the thing is, I had a rabbi suggest that we look at Genesis chapter
three as a step up for humankind, not a fall. This is a thing that separates humans from other
animals is our conscience. It's a pain in the ass at times, because it has you up at night
worrying about something sometime, right? Like a moral issue or ethical issue. So it's not always
great. But it's actually a good thing. It is actually what leads allows us to have civilization
if there is such a thing as can we actually call it civilization? That's another question.
But my point is, you don't actually like, there's, I think there's an interesting or more interesting
way of reading that story than the way Christians have been taught to read it, which is to see that
as a naughty, naughty disobedience. And now I got you. And I told you not to do and you did. So
I'm going to say, like, yeah, I actually think Eve is pretty strong and powerful. And she's curious.
Damn it. She's curious. I like that. The woman saw that it was good food to help you with wisdom.
And she had some like, yes. That's my girl, right? Like, so there's more than one way to look at you.
I love to be a misogynist as a joke to my wife all the time. It's totally as a joke. But if she's
having like, um, period cramps or something, and I'm like, well, you shouldn't have eaten the fruit.
And she gets so enraged. So it's hilarious. She goes like, you don't believe that. But anyway,
it's, it's fun. It's fun. That's actually what Paul should have written about is most of marriage
is just annoying the other partner. Like, I'm going to try and do is my wife's very particularly
about how the house is. Just this is a good one for anyone. Just get the the teaspoons and just
turn them around. Just turn them around in the thing. So they're facing the other way
in the in the in the drawer, just something like that. Or just move. Yeah, just move where the
bowls are. Like, it just, it just, it just throws them out. It's great. It's something to do. It
keeps marriages. Marriage is interesting. I did actually hear, I heard of this. This is an Australian
thing that's called power moves. And this one person, what he would do is when his wife wasn't
talking to him, he would go and tighten all the jars in the internal for the toilet. So eventually
she would have to come and say, need help. Oh, I can help you. Sure. It's a joke. Yeah, a little.
But anyway, well, thank you so much for coming on. Thank you for the super chats. And let me just
quickly shout out your YouTube channel because you mentioned it. Your live streams are here.
You can go and check them out whenever you want. Thank you. It's been fun to be here.
Thank you for that. I appreciate that little plug in my YouTube channel. Thank you.
Well, links are in the description. Thanks, guys, for coming out. And I appreciate it. Thanks, Dr.
Jen for coming on. Thank you. Bye. Bye.
