...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
Thank you everyone for coming out to this very special episode of Deep Drinks podcast.
We have, I say this every time, but we do actually have a very special guest this time.
I wanted to interview Biddy for a long time because I just find her journey fascinating.
So we're going to introduce her shortly, but I just want to first celebrate, like thanks
everyone for coming out. It's awesome to see everyone, see everyone's smiling faces,
what's everyone drinking? But I just want to show you our channel growth over the last
few episodes. So you see the little bar down the bottom, when we get to 1,000, we're going
to do a charity stream. So it's like, bam, bam, bam, bam. That's what's happening. We are
growing and it's so super awesome. But what's even better, and I could not make this up.
Yesterday, I went on to Stardust Stream to talk about just some random drama that's
happening. And she sent some followers, some people to the channel and we got to 420 subscribers.
So what a perfect number for my next guest, who I assure you is a little high, not too
high, but a little high. So I'd like to introduce Biddy Buddha. She's a hippie, a feminist, an
atheist, a ritual agnostic. Today, we'll be learning about her journey in and out of religious
institutions and cults. And we will also be learning about ritual agnosticism, a term I had
never heard of before. And still, I'm a little bit unfamiliar with what it is. So we're going
to be learning about that. Biddy is also the co-author, is co-authoring a book with Pat
Lowinger on the very subject. So that said, I'd like to welcome Biddy Buddha.
Hello.
Hello. So first of all, we're drinking Diet Coke, right?
Oh, you don't hear, well, I'm doing, this is great, my mind, like a few great, because
it's 11pm here. And I'm like, well, I probably shouldn't do another Diet Coke. So I'm doing
kombucha. I just wanted to be like super stereotypical. You know what I mean?
Yeah, that's it. That's perfect. And it's also, it's also perfect that so originally we're
drinking Diet Coke because it's not legal yet for me to smoke like this isn't Deep Herbs
podcast. I can't smoke in Australia without a medical reason. So, but your favorite thing
is to smoke. Well, that's what you wanted to bring on. So, well, I thought it would be fun.
Yeah, and a little bit different. But yeah, well, maybe one day when it gets legal, we can do
Deep Herbs podcast. And I can have a little bit of weed when it's legal. And you can watch me
have a panic attack as we have a conversation. So that's cool, because I've got, I've got Diet
Coke, which is good. And are you not a Diet Coke fan? No, I, well, to be fair, I cheated as
well. It's Coke No Sugar, which is just like Coke Zero, which I think is better than Diet Coke.
So I also cheated as well, which I don't normally do. But yeah, I love it. I didn't know
that, like, whatever my choice was, you had to drink. So yeah, it sets, it sets the tone for
the interview. Okay, fair enough. Well, I'm sorry. No, it's fine. This is great. But the thing is,
and just just to just to explain why I'm so stoked about this is normally I'm drinking like
vodka at 7am with a guest or, or, you know, or I had coffee with Derek at 2am. You know, that was
great. But so normally, like, I'm getting buzzed really early in the morning because of the show.
But last night, I, well, I'm not drinking today. So last night, I decided to have, you know, a
quiet little scotch, and then turned into like, many scotches. And then I think I sent you like,
it would have been 3am in the morning for me. And I said, I liked one of your tweets. And then I
like, messaged you and said, be me writing a love letter to my wife at 3am while I'm drunk as a
skunk. And so yeah, I'm a little bit hungover today. So hopefully I enjoyed that. I think that's so
sweet, by the way. Oh, thank you. It's some, some reason the scotch last night got me all like
soppy. And I just, I just wanted to, to, I used to write, Amy led us all the time. But now we're
going into a very new season. And this is like, Oh, this is gonna be, I got to write something
down. But anyway, this isn't about me. This is about you. Where I want to ask, firstly, where did
a bitty Buddha, the name come from? Okay. So I had a dog that was a New Finland, and its name was Buddha.
And I had previously made a TikTok account, but I couldn't remember my name to get into that one.
And so I was just making an account to just watch TikToks. I never really intended on
making content and getting followers. And so it just blew up. And then, which is funny,
because Christians often then think I'm a Buddhist. And so they just go at me, well,
and the Buddha isn't a real God. And it's like, but I never said I was Buddhist either. But it gets
yeah. So it's, it's, it's my dog's name.
That's so good. That's so good. That's so cool. So all right. So that's that, that's, that's
interesting story. But I, I, I've got like a million things going through my head. But because
there's so much I want to talk to you about, we might have to do another episode another time,
but to get it all in like multiple episodes, deep herbs. But let's just go over like your journey
a little bit. Can you tell us a little bit about growing up Christian? What was that like?
Go for it. Oh gosh. Okay. Um, well, there's so many.
It was so fun. There's like a conference Dave Warnock is like, okay, but you used to be an
atheist. I'm like, no, no, no, I was a tattoo artist. He's like, but you became Jewish. And I'm
like, well, before that I was Christian. And he's like, I don't understand your story. It makes no
sense to me. So I should probably like make a timeline. Yeah, yeah, you know, you should make
like a little infographic, you know, how you like see companies are like, it's like 1945 established.
It's okay. I can help you. Yeah, that's awesome. Yeah, no, I grew up Christian. I went to a
Christian private school. That was pretty abusive. The school ultimately like went out of business for
abuse or some shit. But I ended up going there from preschool all the way up to 12th grade. And
kind of after high school, I wanted nothing to do with my upbringing. Like,
it was like, if that's what Christianity is, I don't want any part of it. And so I still self
identified as Christian, like culturally. But this is where I then pursued a career in tattooing,
which is where I got completely covered. Because then people are like, but you're a tattooed,
you know, what Jewish person? Do you still do tattoos? I don't. Okay, so funny story.
It's not funny. But well, should we just go through the timeline because this kind of falls
into why I quit tattooing. Okay, yeah, yeah, let's do the timeline. I'm just going to ask
if you could tattoo me if I ever got to better. Oh, I was supposed to tattoo Oz and Shane and
like a whole bunch of people, but like Oz got his equipment's like, anyways. So yeah, so I left,
you know, I was living a secular, worldly life. And it was like 2013 or 2014, I had been watching
I have been watching a lot of YouTube videos about this was like when Obama was president about
him being the anti Christ and the rapture is happening. And here's all this evidence as to
why the rapture is happening because I grew up in that ideology. I don't know if you did. Yeah.
Super kind of kind of I remember being really worried about about the rapture and the anti
Christ. And then someone calm me down and said, if everyone's thought the anti Christ is in their
time, like if you were living in the 30s, you would have thought Hitler was definitely the
anti Christ. And I was like, yeah, it is way more of an anti Christ than the Obama. And then I,
and then I stopped caring. I stopped for you. Lucky you, it tortured me for decades. But anyway,
so I was on this like rabbit hole of YouTube videos. And I came across and am Graham lots,
YouTube video for the people that have been left behind. This is like a project that she pre made.
And that's Billy Graham's daughter, if you're familiar with who she is, she has her own ministry.
And if you would have asked me, like three years ago, I, I, I saw Jesus in my living room,
he came there. And I had this seriously. And this is okay, I had this 180 complete lifestyle
change. I was reading the Bible like obsessively. I didn't watch TV anymore.
But I got, I also grew up on a lot of like, everything's demons kind of theology.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Wait, so, so you went, so you, you weren't, you weren't a Christian,
like you were, you're quite, you had a rebellious spirit. And then you had an encounter with Jesus
in your living room. Can you? Yeah. You kind of just rushed over that. What was, what was this
encounter? Did, did you high five? Yeah. Yeah. We like did shots. It was awesome.
No. So I was, I walked through the sinner's prayer of this YouTube video and like it had
completely manipulated my emotions. So I'm crying. And although there was no tangible evidence for
Jesus in my living room, the way I would have pitched it to people is that he, he was tangibly
there because you know how like, well, you grew up Pentecostal, you know, like you can convince
yourself of a lot of stuff. And so it was like in my mind's eye, like this, he was there, I could
feel him, you know, all this anecdotal kind of went, if you were to press the issue, nothing
happened. I was just in an emotional state. And yeah. They said a home invasion, I'd call the cops.
Right.
So, okay. So you had, so it wasn't like a physical thing or anything. But so what happened after
that? So like I said, complete 180 became very prudish. I ended up quitting. Okay. It worked
my ass off to become a tattoo artist. Because back then it wasn't, it was a male dominated
career field, right? Like the only women that were getting into it were the girlfriends of
a shop owner. So I like worked my ass off to prove myself and get into this career.
And I threw it all away because I believed one Leviticus says that they'll shout not mark the
skin and remembrance of the dead. And this the culture that what I was in was what I would have
considered back then satanic. And, and so I quit and I threw all my tattoo equipment, we're talking
$10,000 worth of stuff in the trash, because I thought it was a gateway to demons. And if I
threw it away and didn't resell it, because I don't want to perpetuate, you know, a sinful lifestyle,
so that I would be rewarded if you read scripture 10 fold. So like, I really took the Bible
literally, like I was convinced, okay, I do this, I get this, that's a promise, you know,
and so then I would look cats attacking me. But so that's why I don't do that anymore.
Yeah, it's, it's, it's interesting, because I was the same I when I first, when I first got
became a Christian, or what I say, like when I first had my, my spiritual encounter, I woke up
every day. And first thing I thought about was God, I would pray, I would like write big scriptures
all over my wall when I lived in this like writing flat where I could do that. I threw away all my
CDs, I had Eminem CDs, and Marilyn Manson DVDs, and just like metal and rap, I threw it all out.
It got to the stage where I started like, you know, I started saying, then I stopped swearing,
then I stopped, then I started like picking rubbish up on the way home, because it was like
the right thing to do. Like I was, you go like, and I don't understand people who don't do that.
Does it not mean like, I don't understand people who, who like have this experience believe,
they tell you that they believe the Bible is true, but then don't follow what, yeah,
follow it. Like, to me, it's, it's bizarre. It made no sense at all. Like, and to this day,
like when I'm arguing for atheism or whatever, just imagine you meet the God of the universe.
That's not something anybody could potentially take lightly and think of the doctrine of hell.
So this is why I don't think those people truly believe in it, because if you believed in the
doctrine or hell of hell, or you believed in this deity, you, I feel like you just couldn't exist.
Like you're, you would have a psychiatric break because the thought of people actually,
what the Bible says, well, I don't believe it's in the Bible, but like the hell doctrine
is these people are tortured for eternity. Like you wouldn't be able to function,
especially going to work to a nine to five, if you truly believe that shit.
No, you're right. I, I will even go further and I'd say that I think that any like sane person,
if, so here's the catch, no one can understand it eternally, right? No one can understand
it infinitely. Like it's an un, understandable concept. I think that if someone could understand
eternally, I think it would be, if there were a, let's say a normal human being, normal thinking
processes, they would find it impossible to worship a God that could send even a cockroach
to that existence. Like imagine, imagine, right? Like no one likes cockroaches, right?
Not many people, but let's say I was just like torturing cockroaches, like pulling off its limbs
and people were watching, watching, they'd be like, that's, and it was squirming and
people will be like, that's fucking cruel. You monster, like stop torturing this cockroach.
Or let's say it's a rat, something that, you know, you can see it in pain. Imagine that fraternally,
like it's, it's unfathomable. And I think that, that a lot of Christians are just like, yeah,
my friends are going to hell, but you know, whatever, like it's just like, it's so bizarre to me. Like
it's, it's, it's bizarre. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. All right. I feel like I unraveled. I just took it
in a weird direction. No, no, no. Okay. So that's something I also wanted to mention is weird directions
are totally fine for this podcast. That's what this podcast is. It's weird directions. A little
of the time we don't even talk about the thing that is in the title, because I just like to
let the conversation go where it goes. But so with your, so you throw away all your tattooing
gear. So does that mean you don't tattoo anymore? Like you won't do it? I just want to get a tattoo.
I just want to get a sick tattoo from you at some conference in the future. Look, can that happen?
Yeah, I can make that happen. Okay. Well, and like partially my hands are pretty fucked up from
tattooing. So like, people ask me all the time, like, well, why don't you just go back to it?
It's like, one, it's a huge investment. And two, I don't want to wreck my hands any further. Like,
you know, is it is it like the vibrating that like, yeah, we'll be changed so much since
like when I tattooed it, but like, it was like these giant tubes that you hold on to. And so
like just the grip of all day, you know, yeah, yeah, true, true. Okay. So you've left now you've
left tattooing. When you become a Christian, you throw all your stuff. Where do you go from there?
Oh, I joined a cult. Also, okay, what kind of what kind of Christian were you when you first
had your experience with Jesus? And then how did you like then what happened when you when
you got involved in the cult? Like, did it change at all? Were you the kind of Christian who like
prayed for a parking space on the way to work? Did you like pray for people in the street? You
believe in healing? Like, what kind of Christian before you? Yeah. So my initial Christian upbringing
was like, fundamentalist, evangelical, non denominational, which is a denomination in
itself. But it wasn't very like, I believe in the gifts of the spirit, but I didn't experience
much of that in church. Okay. So like, whatever. So that's my Christian upbringing.
And I have this 180. And I swing into like, full blown Pentecostal, because I'm like, yes,
this is evidence. This like, so I, and we were seeing it was so charismatic and so like,
felt like shit was actually happening. And so that's the cult was the last Reformation,
Torben Sondergaard, if you're familiar, I think he's in jail now.
I'm not familiar, but I think he's in jail. Yeah, he's being held in jail. Like,
I just read about him recently. And what was I talking about? Oh, and so they heavily live
out the book of Acts. So they truly believe that like, this is where intercessory prayer
happened. This is where I went to like, healing conferences. I used to go to like, Doug Stanton
meetings. Eight years in jail. See, I told you. A true movement of God produces, what does it say?
Oh, geez. A true movement of God produces true persecution, Torben in jail. So like,
this is a good thing that is in jail. Yeah, this is he justified. Wow. Very culty.
Yeah. So I was in that cult. And we would do street healings and we would do baptisms. And
like, this is the bapt water baptisms where we believed that evidence of the Holy Spirit was
speaking in tongues. And so we would baptize people in water and then basically scream at them
until they uttered nonsense. And then we're like, all right, you're saved. Yeah. Yeah.
Did you did you ever speak in tongues? Yes. Can you still do it? Or do you feel like I felt
stupid then doing it? I feel stupid now doing it. And so I didn't want to speak in tongues.
Um, so I sort of convinced myself that I had the gift of interpretation. So I could be the one
not speaking in tongues. And it always says that you're not supposed to do it unless if somebody's
there to interpret, right? Like it is useless without an interpreter. And I wonder, I wonder
if I should speak in tongues and you should interpret what I'm saying.
Um, that I'm the best guess you have ever had on this podcast.
Yeah, it's, um, uh, yeah, it's, uh, I remember giving myself a gift of the Spirit, a gift of
tongues. I remember going for a walking asking God for it. And then I started speaking in tongues.
And then when I started going to, um, like youth groups and stuff, there's a difference
between what I just did then though. And like, um, like when you're, when you feel
quite, quite slain in a spirit and you start speaking like these other like very weird tongues,
like I found there's a difference there. Um, so I'm just, there's no lies detected. That's great.
So, um, so you're part of this, um, this last reformation, uh, cult, uh, how did, like,
where do you go from there? Like, how did you get out of the cult? Like, how did
eventually, uh, yeah. So I, uh, my husband was always an atheist.
And before you first became Christian, were you together?
Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Cool. Yeah.
So we met in high school, we dated in high school, then we took kind of a break. I shared
this whole story on Oz's channel, like we get married in a jail. It just shits crazy. And
and so, um, we weren't in jail. We just got married at a jail just to clarify. Okay. Okay.
Okay. You weren't in jail. You were just at the jail. Right. Yeah. Or maybe you were,
or maybe, or maybe it was signs of your persecution.
Yeah. Yeah. I wanted to get a taste of that.
We're in jail. Yeah.
So you got married. I keep jumping all over the place. No, you're good. No, I'm just going to
shut up, continue, continue telling your story. I could just remember, like, where I left off,
then we'd be good. Um, what the hell was I talking about? So
I feel like Deep Herbs podcast would be even worse than this. This would be great. Um,
no shit. So we should get, um, what were we talking about? Holy crap. Um, so I think how
I got out of the cold. How you got out of the cold. Yes. That's right. How you got out of the cold.
Yeah. Okay. So my husband was always an atheist and he so open minded, super patient would go
with me to all of the shit that I was involved with. And so he went to like a healing conference
with me and Raleigh. No. Yeah. Charlotte, North Carolina. And whatever he was like,
this is some crazy shit. And then I ended up hosting one of those meetings in Minneapolis and
we used to do like the gay pride praying at them sinners. Oh, right. Yeah. So you were, you were
running anti gay pride things at the gay pride. Well, so I had my kick, it's called a kick starter
because you're kick starting the Holy Spirit. And so I had, I hosted that and then we took teams
to different places. We ended up taking our team to Minneapolis at like during the largest gay pride
festival and like condemned people as they walked by and we prayed for people and whatever. That's
what, when I looked up the last information that said get kick started today. Yeah. Yeah. Kick
starters. That's what someone called them. Fuck. I'm so bad at remember what the hell I was talking
about. No. So you're talking about the gay, um, great pride. We did like exorcisms and all that
stuff. And then my husband ended up showing me a YouTube channel and I to this, the amount of times
I've told this story, you'd think in between then and now I would go look up who this person was,
but he was basically a musician and he would perform on the streets of Las Vegas as a street
healer or a street pitcher. Darren Brown. Maybe. Miracles for sale. It could be it. It's a,
it's a documentary. Yeah. He got that, that to me like broke me a little bit. He goes out and
like, he puts his hand on people and he does the old leg straight. He helps his, this fake preacher
do all these like things like make the legs bigger and fix their backs and all like, oh,
it's all healed. It's all healed. Yeah. And they're not using any type of prayer and they're not
doing anything. They're just you with the power of suggestion, adrenaline. Yeah. Another one called
miracles. Miracles for sale. It's on Vimeo. Okay, good. I kind of want to watch it again,
because it was so long ago, but like my mind just went and instead of leaving the faith,
I just swung into the complete opposite and became a Baptist, Calvinist, and then messianic
Judaism is where I landed. Wow. Yeah. Cause then I was like, well, this is bullshit.
They're only talking about the book of acts. So then I just started, I'm like, I'm going to read
the whole Bible and I don't ever want to be fooled again. Cause I felt so stupid to be have,
to just fall for this shenanigans and then especially with that documentary. And so I was
never again. And I just, this is why I know the Bible so well. So if you watch, like people are
like, you know the Bible so well. Yeah. Cause for like five years, that's all I did. It's all I
read all the time. So yeah. Did you find it interesting though, reading the Bible as a Baptist
versus reading the Bible as an atheist? Did you see a difference there in like how you would notice
things that you didn't normally, you wouldn't normally notice. So like for me, I noticed things
like, you know, slavery was never something I even thought about. I knew it was there, but it's
not something I even thought about or cared about when I was a Christian. But then now that I'm an
atheist, I'm like, this is really like fucked up. Like this, this is not okay. And did you find a
difference there between like reading it as an atheist, reading this as a Christian? So the
denomination that I ended up in that, the Torah is what we studied. So I kept the law, I kept the
feast days, slavery, I was obviously aware of. And what I, what I respect about Judaism and even
the messianic movement, and I understand it's like cultural appropriation, I get it, but that's just
what I was in. That you don't shy away from the difficult questions like you do in Christianity,
because Christianity is like, oh, well, the Old Testament was done away with, like we just don't
follow that shit. And that's a lot. There's like a lot of theological problems when you start to do
that. And, you know, so I took it very literal, I took the whole Bible in its entirety. And so I was
familiar with like all of the verses. I think the only one I really didn't know about was
bashing the babies against the rocks. That was like a big one when I became an atheist, I'm like,
holy shit. And then obviously numbers where you learn about the child sacrifices under
Eleazar, wait Eleazar, shit, it's been a long time. I'm not familiar with the child sacrifice there.
Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. They take numbers 32, someone in the chat probably already knows,
but I think it's numbers 32. Yeah, right. So yeah, it's, yeah. So, okay, so you're now,
you went to Southern Baptist. When did you go to Messianic Judaism cult?
Okay, so it was just like, I wouldn't say that I ever attended churches that were Baptist or
Calvinist, but like I started to go in that direction as far as the validity of Scripture
and kind of more Orthodox. And so yeah, I ended up, God, there's a documentary called The Way,
and it basically talks about like how first century Christianity and Judaism were indistinguishable.
I agree with that still, talked about how all of the holidays that we celebrate today are basically
pagan. It makes the case for, you know, why the law is still relevant, how that is the covenant,
and how basically that is what is to be saved. And I still agree with that. Like I think,
like Pat Lohinger always tells me, he's like, stop arguing for theology that you don't even
believe in. But like, to me, I had to go to the strictest like denomination to learn myself out
of it, because I didn't want to be fooled again. So I basically just continue to learn and learn
and learn and learn and learn. And I learned just right out of it, because I had that passion for
knowledge. But the Messianic Judaism cult, I was in it for, I don't know, like about a year. I loved
it. I loved it so much. I used to do like the dances and stuff like that. And I really had,
because I was feeding my mind, like learning so much, like they had Hebrew classes, and you were
learning the Old Testament so well that when you grow up in Christianity, you kind of just get like
motivational speeches, you really don't learn the Bible in church anymore. Especially like the
Hillsong-esque type of churches, you know, where it's like five best ways to live a godly life.
And it's like, they'll sprinkle some scripture in there, but it's a lot of just anecdotes about
stuff. Yeah. Yeah, exactly. And then how I got out of that cult is my husband, again,
showed me a YouTube video called It's Okay to Be Smart. And it talked about like evolution
and some of the biggest evidences as for why it is true, because I didn't grow up believing evolution
and, or knowing about it, I should say. And talked about like whale fingers and how the
trachea or whatever of the giraffe and how that's not intelligent design. And I was quickly like,
okay, this, there's evidence here. And I quickly accepted then the evolution, you know, like as
fact. And, but then that started to basically just destroy my foundation. Because now what
about the flood story? And what about this? And if that's allegorical, how do I know that this isn't?
And I just spiraled out of like, control, like I would, I was having an identity crisis,
honestly, I felt like my whole life was a lie. And I'm still trying to hold on to it because I
liked it. And, you know, to learn that all those years of devoting myself to scripture and this
and then what now, like if it weren't true. And I remember, okay, so in Judaism, Yom Kippur is the
holiest day. It's when God is the closest to his people is the apex of days, whatever. And so we
were having a worship night. And my foundation's already cracked. I've tried asking people for
help. And the Christians that I knew were just being like, well, you really just need to go home
and pray about it. And I'm like, I don't understand, like, what do you think I'm doing? You know,
and it was Yom Kippur, we're having a worship service. And it was congregations from like
all over the Midwest were attending. This was a really big event. And the lead singer got
strep, or bronchitis or something like that. And when you're in the messianic movement,
you believe that you are saved. Those that keep the Torah are the ones that God answers their prayer
because you are in covenant, you're keeping the Sabbath, which is like the most important
commandment of all. And so there's also rules and instructions, unlike the cult for healing.
If you read the Bible, there is like, you know, pray, go to the elders, anoint their head with
oil, like it is very step by step, it tells you what to do. And so not only were we keeping Torah,
but this is the elders of people that were keeping Torah, they anointed her head with oil,
like they were doing all of the steps. And she didn't get healed. And I went, this is all bullshit.
It gets all bullshit. There's absolute, or God, either he is real, and then he just doesn't keep
any of his promises, because there are so many promises for those that keep my commandments,
like sickness shall not come to your door for those that keep my commandments. Like,
if that's, that's a promise. And yet, you know, and this is where Christians are like, well,
God's ways are higher than ours. Yeah, but that's bullshit. That's like what you say to yourself
because you're not getting the results that are told to you, like that are supposed to happen
according to God himself. And so then I just started spending all my time watching atheist
debates. And like, you realize just how lack of lack of evidence there is for Christianity. And
then you learn like, gosh, the development and what it looked like in fourth and third century.
And like, you know, like you start to learn all the stuff and you learn about like,
Gilgamesh, and like, you're just like, okay, well, wow, this is, you know, what is the Bible
at that point? And yeah, I don't know if I would just like started rambling.
But the ramble, the rambles, yeah, yes, the ramble is fantastic. Got a few great, great things.
God is just testing you. That's a classic response. The Bible is the best way to atheism.
I would agree with that. Like, it's so funny, I hear so many atheists tell people to read the Bible.
I just said, hey, like the damn video and folks and sub if you do, David will slide into your
TM's wink face 100% Bill. Tang, yes, I, yes, shorty wants to be a thug. Yep, I got a nose ring.
Yeah, I got it the other day. I just, I saw you had one and I was like, oh, I tried to parrot the
guess. No, it's this, I call this the dad life crisis. Because I just becoming a dad is freaking
me out a little bit. So I was like, I want to do something reckless, not reckless, but I just want
to do something just fucking bizarre. So for me, it was just going out and getting a spontaneous
nose ring. So I did it. And I like it. Yeah. So yeah, it's a bit of fun. Someone said, I haven't
read this. So God's work is not what I'd expect from an all powerful being, but from an office
temp with a bad attitude in any, any decently run universe. This guy would have been out of
on his on his a long time ago. Yes. So it's actually funny. You mentioned on another podcast that
that the apostle Paul was like the Donald Trump of the first century Palestine. And I love that
so much because it's like, I just imagined Saul like when I was Saul, I killed the Christians.
I was the best at killing the Christians, but now I'm excuse me, no women attacking.
Yeah. Yeah. Homosexuals can't get into heaven. We got to put a big, beautiful wall in heaven.
The homosexuals can't come in. They're not sending their best. Some of them are good people,
but they're not sending their best. It's just like, geez, keep out the gaze literally is like,
I'm the best that's ever been. There's no one better than me. And it's like, how was that not
the Trump of that day? Yeah. It's, it's, it is funny. I remember one of my Christian friends
at the time, he, please excuse my language, everyone. I don't usually use this word, but he
said, he said, he was a Christian, but he goes, but he's like, but you have to be real, Paul was
a bit of a cunt. So, so that whole process, like, well, actually, I want to go back a little bit
to what you were saying. I wanted to let you ramble a little bit, but I wanted to get this out as well.
What would you say to someone who is a Christian, but doesn't necessarily follow
the Old Testament doctrine? So like a lot of Christians that I talk to, I'm even talking,
getting into an argument with people online at the moment about that, I had a tweet that had like
750 likes, which is big time for me. And it was literally, but people are saying, well,
you're quoting the Old Testament. And I'm like, yeah, like, I was like, do you follow the 10
commandments? Because that's in the Old Testament. What would you say to someone who's a Christian,
but doesn't, but uses that excuse, knowing what you know from the Messianic?
I would say go watch my TikTok account. Because I have, I have one video that went viral, and it was
like the amount of work I put into that TikTok, you would, like I found all the verses that you
would have to negate in the New Testament and the Old Testament to literally make that declaration.
And if that's the case, then like, if Jesus did away with the law and the Old Testament,
it says in first, first John three, four says sin is lawlessness. Well, what is law in like,
that's the Greek term, but it would be Torah, like without the Torah. And so if that's done away
with, then sin doesn't exist. And so like, I was called like the biblical atheist, because
I literally, I knew that Bible so well, and I knew how to already debate Christians on their
theology, that I literally just took it and started doing that again, as an atheist, because
that's how I deconstructed the more I learned about how Christianity is just kind of bullshit.
It's all bullshit, but you get what I'm saying, like it just doesn't even have any consistency
whatsoever and 35,000 denominations, like that becomes incredibly problematic when you are the
like religion that claims to have God dwelling within you, you should be the most unified group
that would be like, evidently, like just so drastically different. You know what I mean?
I don't even know what I'm talking about anymore, but like, yeah, I would say go to my TikTok,
and I used to be on Tang, and I would do call and shows, and I would do the same kind of stuff as
teach what callers would call in with stuff, and I would just own them, theologically, because I'm
not more like philosophy and all that stuff I'm not good at, but it just became too triggering for
me, like I can't do it anymore. And that might be like a good segue into like what I'm doing now, but
there's still a lot of trauma that goes all the way back to my early Christianity,
and like just gaslighting and, you know, verbal abuse. And so I was just continually triggering
myself every damn time I was talking about the Bible and getting into like theological debates
with Christians. And so I find it actually really hard sometimes to talk to Christians,
not because anything they're saying is... Sometimes I say some stuff that's interesting,
but if I'm being honest, what it is is I try and be is when I'm trying to have like a real
conversation with someone, I try and understand the perspective as best I can, like I really try
and put myself in their shoes. I try and be really honest. And when I do that, I have to
go back into like an old way of thinking. It's the only way I can describe it. It's like your
former Christian self? Yeah, it's almost like believing in ghosts or something. It's like,
what if there is a ghost outside? And then that feeling, it's like I have to go back into that
feeling to try and understand their perspective. And that feeling really hurts. Like that feeling
is like hard to deal with. Because it's so conflicting with my current worldview and
understanding. Like I've told this story a number of times, but we've had friends who got,
had prophecies about us coming to church to get prayer for Amy because she had endometriosis.
And we had to go through IVF for our pregnancy. And that was really hard to hear that, oh,
you know, God told us that if you come, you'll get healed of this thing. Even though we didn't
believe it, it made me, it like put me into that old way of thinking like, what if there is hope?
Like what if, what, you know, what if there is, because we're so desperate? And it was really,
it was really hard to deal with. So for me, I know where you're coming from with that. But for me,
it was a little, little different. In that, it's like the old, it's like the old way of thinking
more, more so for me, if that makes sense. I do want to, I do also want to, this would be
probably a good time to shout out your channel. So your TikTok is amazing. You've got lots of
videos of 1.6 million likes. It's awesome. Go check out Biddy Buddha's TikTok. We also have
your YouTube channel, which is stripped down to a few videos, but you will be releasing more in
the future, most likely. And this is all about ritual agnosticism, which is the next part of
the conversation, what we're going to talk about. I also do a bit of a shameless plug as well for
those who are watching, Deep Drinks is a platform where we have deep conversations over deep drinks.
Next week, we have a student, Dr. Ben, on to talk about his journey as a trans man. Then we have,
we have this, this guy, Russell Manser. He's, he was an Australian criminal and a bank robber.
He was a victim of institutional abuse. He was sexually abused as a kid in the, in boys' homes.
And he spent 23 years in prison. And now he is rehabilitated and is a huge asset to the community,
helping other peeps. And then we have escaping the Amish cult, the Eli Yoda story. So there's murder,
child abuse, incest. This is a hectic story. And now he's helping people get out of what they call
old Amish, old way Amish churches. And then the very last stream of the year is the Q&A stream
with Derek. It was called The Derek Knows Everything Christmas Special. So everyone knows that Derek
interviews so many people that I think he must have such a broad knowledge of certain issues. So
I'm just going to, we're just going to hit him with questions one after another to wrap up the year.
So yeah, everyone make sure you go check out Biddy's stuff. It's all awesome. And Biddy,
you're writing a book and we're going to be talking about that now, aren't we? You're co-authoring a book.
Yeah, I am. It's kind of still on the DL. Pat Lowinger is a historian and archaeologist that
I met through the Tang Network. And basically we became friends. We talk daily. And he specializes
in ancient magical practices of the Mediterranean. I don't know, something like that.
That's so cool. So yeah, we're writing a book together. He's going to be kind of explaining
how everything works. And then it's like Biddy Buddha's guide to ritual agnosticism. And then
there's like a little me like character. And I'm like, I try this and I, so the bulk of it
and the substance will be Pat for sure. Awesome. So that's so cool though. So I think I first
met you on Tang. Shout out Tang. Everyone goes to Dr. Tang as well. I met you on Tang for the
first time. I don't know what panel it was, but we're talking about, I don't know, it was a good
panel. And I saw it in the background. You had a little like, I think it was a Buddha or a Shiva
statue. It was some Hindu god. I've got one back there that I picked up in Bali. Yeah. What were
we talking about that stream? I remember that. I can't remember exactly what we're talking about.
I know that we started doing some like weed symbols for like Tang at the end.
But yeah, I wanted to learn more about because like obviously like your whole aesthetic is very
much like a hippie. Like I'd see you, you know, like selling crystals at the local market.
But like that's true. Like you actually love crystals. You love tarot cards. Like you love
star signs. You don't necessarily think it's true in the same way a lot of people think it's
true, but you love them. So tell us about this. Let's start there. Tell us about this.
Yeah. So aesthetics is a huge part of it. Like so much of myself, I felt like I was suppressing
that was I just kind of gravitated to as a child, like, you know, hocus pocus, I wasn't allowed to
watch that. But like, there was just something about walking into like a metaphysical shop as a
child. I don't even know why I would have been there, but like loving crystals and like thinking
that there are gateways to demons and I was not allowed to have that kind of stuff. And so now
that I don't believe in any of it, I just fully embraced the aesthetic. I have crystals. I have
tarot cards. I like hang herbs looks like an apothecary in here, because it just makes me happy.
And it's been really healing to my inner child to basically learn about stuff that I wasn't allowed
to learn about. And it's been therapy. And I just do it. I love what Ricky Gervais says. Someone
said to him, like, why don't you pray just in case there is a God and he says, why don't you hang
up garlic in case there is a Dracula? But it's funny, you do. Like with my garlic, you're like,
you're hanging like, well, I do. I do, Ricky. I've got it all covered. Yeah. Dreamcatch is a bit
like, yeah. So, so, so if what is it about those things that like fulfills you somehow? Like, what
is it just that? Is it just the aesthetic? Or is it is it? Or is it like special? Or
primarily the aesthetic? Why? I don't know. I just, I love just nature and it just
it goes with my vibe. But I do use it in practices. So the placebo effect is a very real thing. And
you can even electively placebo affect your mind. You don't have to like, not know that it's a
placebo for it to work. But that is something that I kind of do like with crystals to me. It's
like, okay, they represent this. Is that going to happen to me? No. But if I'm, I'm like, aware of
like, if these things, like characteristics or attributes or whatever it is I'm working on is
in front of me, it is a tangible reminder for me to, Oh, there's my rose quartz. I'm working on
love and patience today. You know what I mean? So it's just kind of like these meditating
things to kind of put your, your focus on so that you have something in front of you. And
it's really satisfied. Because I came out of a very strict orthodox religion to learn that,
which was all rules, to learn that there's no rules. And that put me into like, deep, deep
nihilism. And so I like, if there's no rules to this, what's the point, you know, so I'm kind
of electively putting myself back under the structure that is necessary for me to literally
cope because I can't cope with that. And that I know that the atheist community doesn't always
like me saying that because it's not, you know, helpful to the community when that is such a
statement that Christians make, but like, I don't know, I don't know where I'm going with this.
No, I, I, I, I think I can say why the atheist community won't have a problem with that. But
I think that from, from a psychological perspective, everyone is doing what you're
doing. So like, I remember once I had to climb onto a roof, and I was really afraid of climbing
onto this roof, because I shouldn't have been up there. It was like someone, the neighbor, like,
yelled at me, like, you're about to fall, you know, you're about to fall. So it was bad. But
I remember thinking to myself, like, about Zelda, like playing the video games elder and like,
how he would step up on things and the courage that he had. And that helped me get up. This is
weird, right? Like, like I'm a grown ass man thinking about a children's video game. But that
helped me get up. Or, you know, there are other, there are like, people use symbolism ideas. There
are rituals in like sitting in the dinner table, eating food is a ritual. Does that help people
get through the day? Well, yeah, like, do we believe that there are goblins underneath the table
that give us the powers to like, get us through that? No, no, we just, it's part of, it's part of
what makes humans humans. And so, yeah, like I, I, I remember this, this is book here called
the thing about religion. And I want to read a little section of it, because I think that it,
it perfectly demonstrates what you're talking about, or what what I'm trying to get to. So it's
trying to define someone is calling someone defining religion, right? A religion is a system of
symbols, which acts to establish powerful, pervasive, and long lasting moods, and motivations in men,
let's say, people kind, by, by formulating conceptions of a general order of existence,
and clothing these conceptions with such an aura of factuality, that the moods and motivations
seem uniquely realistic. So, like, I think you can take anything, crystals,
ancestor worship, the belief in God, and you can find like, hope, purpose, strength through any of
that. And I think that you're actually being way more honest than the typical atheist. And you're
just, you're just saying, like, well, hey, like, I like these things, I don't necessarily believe
in them, but they helped me get through the day. I think that's actually, there's nothing wrong
that personally, I think there's nothing, I think that's great. Like, you do you.
I appreciate that, because it has been, there's been some negative feedback that I'm, I'm going
against the, the cause, as if they're, you know, whatever. A lot of people have left the religion,
but they haven't deconstructed the like, dogmatic way of deconverting people. It's weird. But yeah,
I mean, if I want to live my life like a Dungeons and Dragons campaign, like, that's what I'm going
to do, because it makes me happy. Like, I don't, the most important thing is learning critical
thinking skills. Because once you learn those critical thinking skills, and it's kind of like,
you know, a catch 22, two, because two, two, two. It's hard to kind of get into something if you
also know it's not true. So that's kind of the flip side of why ritual agnosticism is kind of hard,
because you're, you want that passion, because it keeps you motivated, and it, you know, you have
something to devote yourself to, but you also don't believe in it. But what the fuck was I talking about?
David.
Is it like, is ritual agnosticism is it like,
is it like, you're trying to, you have like certain rituals that you do, and you're trying to believe
in them in a certain way, but not, not, not like, you know, in a full, like you have to almost,
I'm trying to get like really artsy with my answer, like I'm, I'm trying to think with my, the art part
of my brain, but like, you almost give yourself to it, but you don't necessarily, your critical
thinking skills, no, it's like when I go to a haunted mansion, right, I can, I can just like
laugh my whole way through it, but it's boring. I want to protect, like I want to really, I want
to like put myself in, I'm, I'm in a scary mansion. I'm in the labyrinth, you know, with David Bowie,
like I'm in, I'm thinking about, I'm trying to put myself in that situation because I want the
experience, but I know it's not real. Is that what it's kind of like with ritual agnosticism? It's
like, these tarot cards, like I'm going to believe in these tarot cards, but then if you really ask
me, like if you really sit me down, I know they're not real, but like, I'm going to really like
put myself into them. Is that what it's like? Yeah, I, you're not believing in a supernatural or
outside force and anything, or that you can manipulate energy and, you know, change something,
but it's all about self-reflection, self-awareness, self-empowerment. You see a lot of atheists,
at least with this whole Gen Z and deconstruction movement, you're seeing a lot more people go
into witchcraft as atheists, atheist witches. And it's because there's something to just
feeling like you have control when things fill out of control. And that kind of gives you something
to put your intentions on. And that's exactly what a ritual is. And that's why it's different than a
like routine is because a routine, yes, is something that you do on a daily basis. You get up, you
brush your teeth, you have your morning cup of coffee, that's a routine. But if you were to start
to put intention towards it, it becomes a ritual. So like, if my intention is to sit here and meditate,
or you know, whatever, then all of a sudden what would be a routine changes into a ritual.
And why am I doing that? Well, because like the studies on this, now there's not a specific
field that I'm aware of that studies agnosticism or ritual agnosticism, but we're finding people
that just don't believe in stuff. And they still go to church, they still go to mass,
they still go to, you know, whatever, because it's, it's tradition. It gives them a sense of like,
you know, belonging and, and they just, yeah, I hope I'm answering questions.
No, you are. I think you're, I think you're getting, no, no, you're doing good. I think you're,
I think if anything that's happening is you're getting like a little bit of like parent weed
paranoia from, because you're doing fine. I think you're paranoid that you're not doing fine, but
you're doing fine. You're doing good. It's all good. So what about like, I've had much like,
I've had interviews that I'm like, I'm like, I'm like, in my head, I'm like frantically panicking,
like, how do I get, how do I talk to this person? Because they're just like, but this is great. So
I'm good. So like, how does like, so what do you think about like psychic readings then and, or
like mediums and things like that? Like, do you have beef with those people? Or do you believe in
that kind of stuff? Or not? I don't know. What do you think about those? Okay, so for the very
reason, I also believe that I could interpret tongues is it's like intuition, right? Like,
I do believe intuition is real. And I think some people are hypersensitive to it. And typically,
trauma would be the reason why like, they're very observant of people's body language, you know,
like stuff like that. And so there could be a little bit of that in psychic work. Honestly,
I don't know, like, I don't even know if I'm supposed to say this, but like Pat does studies on
this stuff. And the amount of people that even they don't necessarily believe that they're,
they haven't like an ability to read minds. So I think it's a lot of scamming, but I think that
there's just some people that can kind of really help. But like the whole, you know, like, I can
solve a murder mystery, because I'm tapping into the energy of the dead or whatever. I don't think
it's happening. But like, I think some people just kind of get lucky with their, you know,
just throwing whatever most and we always like to associate meaning to everything. We do that with
everything. So I could say, I just really feel like you're upset. And you're like, you know what,
yeah, I kind of, you know, it's and then it goes but also to like the power of suggestion as well.
So like, we're going to see what someone's saying that could be so vague, and our brain's going to
already put something to it, which makes it feel like it's, how did she know that about me, you know?
Yeah, there's actually, I don't know, like, if you're not comfortable talking about this,
then just let us know. But I know there's been a huge leap in the study of like psychedelics.
Now, first of all, I've had friends who have taken way too much psychedelics and have essentially
endangering mental institution with psychosis. I think if you, I wouldn't advocate that anyone
does this does psychedelics unless they're very certain what's going on and they're under supervision,
even I'll buy like a shaman or something. So I just want to get that out there. But
but I know that there is a lot of, there's a book by, I forgot who it's called,
but it's called How to Change Your Mind. And it's a doctor. Let me just find it. It's a doctor who
studied it and taking psychedelics and stuff because there's so much stuff around psychedelics
at the moment. Because that what I've and how it's by Michael Pollan. So let me just
just bring it up. It's this book here by Michael Pollan, How to Change Your Mind, The New Science
of Psychedelics. And it's a really, it's a really interesting book. But what I find is
interesting amongst those communities of people who essentially trip all the time or like to do
like, you know, ayahuasca circles and things like that is they communicate, they communicate.
Okay, a lot of them, okay, two things, a lot of them communicate like bizarre things about like
the cosmic plane of existence and, and like quantum mechanics and they have no understanding about
any of that stuff. And it's all BS in my opinion. However, what I think they are doing is they're
trying to communicate this subjective like internal like art, art brain thing into like tangible
objective physical material concepts. And I think that there's something to I think psychedelics is
just a more intense, I think the way people communicate that psychedelics is just like a
more intense version of essentially what you're talking about with intuition in that it's part
of the brain and it's like, it's hard for us to verbalize what's what that is. So it's symbolism
like crystals and things like that can help. Because it's not about objective reality, it's
about subjective experience, if that makes sense. I don't know if that made sense, but
I think it made sense. I agree. Yeah. Yeah. Am I a genius or like,
You just, I mean, Nobel Peace Prize up in here.
Sometimes I say stuff and I'm like, was that really profound or really stupid?
Was that like amazing? And then see if I wrote that shit down, I'd like see it in the morning
and I'd be like, what the fuck? I've actually after this, I've got to go delete some tiktoks
that I made last night, like 3 a.m. when I was drunk. Don't do that. Okay, they were so they
were just a bit cringy. That's all. Like I had to I recorded them in my eyes were like this,
because I was so drunk that I recorded them. I'm like,
like this. So there's, so I read the Bhagavad Gita when I was in or listened to this version
of the Bhagavad Gita. It's an audible by Ignash Iswaran. And he and I'm not sure if it's in this
book, but so the Bhagavad Gita is like, you know, a text from like 450 BC. It's old. And it's one
of the it's part of the Mahabharata, part of the the the Hindu mantra of things, right? And the whole
story is about like Ajna and Krishna like Ajna is like this leader of this army. And Krishna comes
and like starts telling me about life and about the battle and things like that. What I found
really interesting is some people are interpreting this to be like a not a real battle that took
place in history or mythology, but like a psychological thing. A lot of mystics. I like that
because the Hindu mystics, all of the deities, like, so their their ideology is that we are God,
like, you know, you are me, I am you, we are God, all that kind of stuff. But like the if you listen
to mystics talk about the theology, like, you know, all of these myths, they really bring it into
like current modern neuroscience and like psychology. And like, I was part of a like a like a Hindu
discord. And I loved it because like, I can get down with, like mythology, when you start like
applying like really deep, like, yeah, interpretations that would make sense. And,
you know, like a science worldview.
This is why I wanted to talk to you because I feel like I, I don't think any of it's true,
but I can get on board a little bit with what you're saying, what I think you're saying, which is
like, that that art brain, that art brain, like feeling, right? So when I, I, there are parts of
the Bible that I find absolutely disgusting. But when I read one, one John, which is my favorite
New Testament book, I am like, you know, God is light and within him, there is no darkness. I
feel these feelings just rise up on me. I'm like, wow, this is poetic. This is, this is awe inspiring.
Same with the Quran. Some parts of the Quran were disgusting. Other parts I was like, wow,
this is really beautifully written. Obviously, I didn't read it in Arabic, Arabic, sorry. So
I didn't get the full poetry, but it was still beautiful. But I remember when this first happened
to me to with a non-Christian book, and it was this, and I was reading this, the Bhagavad Gita,
Pulsar drunk in Bali. Wife was next to me, just chilling, sunbathing, and we're just like,
having a great time. And I'm listening to the audio version. I had to buy the physical book,
but it was this that stuck out to me. So Arjuna is talking, Krishna is talking to Arjuna and
explaining who he is. And he's saying, I'm the ritual and the sacrifice. I am true medicine
and the mantra. I'm the offering and the fire which consumes it. I'm the one who,
to whom it is being offered. I'm the father and mother of this universe. And it's grandfather too.
I am its entire support. I am the sum of all knowledge, the purifier, the syllable om. I am
the sacred scriptures, the rig, yaju, and some are Vedas. I am the goal of life, the Lord and
support of all, the inner witness, the abode of all. I am the only refuge, the one true friend.
I'm the beginning, the staying, and the end of creation. I am the womb and the eternal seed.
I am heat. I give and withhold the rain. I am immortality. I am death. I am what is and what
is not. When I heard that, for one, it sounded like I was reading some part of Isaiah or Proverbs
or something. And I was like, this is written before the Bible, or at least before the scriptures.
And I was just like, whoa. And I remember just being perplexed by the idea of this thing that was
like everything. And that bring up these feelings in me that I did not expect. And that's when I
started to realize that even though I didn't think it was true, I found it really interesting.
And that got me on the whole path of, that's why I bought the Shiva statue. And that's why
I'm super interested in world religions. And yeah, so I just thought I would share that.
Yeah. Yeah, I think, well, you can, you can appreciate religion
by, with being an atheist, like you can appreciate the stories and the culture. And, you know,
like there's, I think we're lying to ourselves if we say, like, if we just try to not
realize that there is some beauty in these things. And yeah, like, I totally agree with you. And I
think it's fun to learn about. And yeah, like, I get what you're saying.
It's not, it's, I just don't think it's true. Like, I enjoy it. I just don't think it's true.
Like, I think that makes it so much more enjoyable to read as well. It's like, how did
humanity think about things 2003,000 years ago? That's incredible. Like, what's the context?
What does this mean? How is this applicable to our lives today? It's like, it's just amazing.
Yeah. Yeah. It is, it's, it's fun to read and, and learn about.
This interview has just turned to me telling you about things I like. So I apologize for that.
Well, and, and, and on that note, like, so I, I really like Gaia theory. I really like
thinking that we are in this connected ecosystem. And the earth is how we sustain life,
which is true, but like it, that it's like this conscious being, because it makes me want to
take care of it. And it makes me like realize that we're all connected and like, so, and, and
collective consciousness. Like, I can like these things. And then I can live my life accordingly
to what they do and bring out of me. And not at the end of the day, believe in it. But like,
imagination, like has been so healing to the inner child to go back into this like,
imaginative, imaginative, like play. And basically, as an adult, how kind of living in,
in like an imagination land, but it's not harmful. Like it used to be when I believed it and was
delusional. This is elective. This is like, this is what I frame my worldview so that I can be a
better person, given the circumstances of reality, you know, like, and not become nihilistic. So
that's what I, what I am doing. And so, so with your night with your nihilism, like, how did that,
just to jump back to the part where you become, you became really nihilistic, what, what, how did
that manifest itself? Like, what did you, what was it? Did you fall into a depression? Or did you
just start like, being reckless with your life? Or like, how, like, what was the, how did your
nihilism, how did that affect you negatively? Just super depressed. Like, there's no point to any of
this. Like, why even bother? I got heavily into like Daoist philosophy, you know, because that's
like, oh, well, whatever is going to happen is already predetermined. And you can't do anything
about it. So you're just here to experience it. And I didn't like that because it felt so passive.
And that like, I was looking for a sense of control. And like, okay,
this is what I'm struggling with. And like, this is the hardest part about ritual agnosticism is,
okay, like, okay, there is like studies that when you grow up in an environment like fundamentalism,
it affects your brain, like the way your brain grows and everything affects your brain. Yeah.
Yeah. So you can leave religion, and then you, your brain is still broken. Like, so it's this
then going into what is structure, because for me, growing up in that environment, like, I needed a
goal, like, there's no goal to this. Like, even if I might, like, it doesn't make a sense for me to
be a humanist, because I'm then placing an arbitrary goal, if you like, zoom out, there's no goal for
humans to survive, right? Like, that's why I'm not a humanist. And like, I'm like, well, if there's no
goal, what is the point of taking care of the earth? Why be vegan? Why not just do like, then
I would say that I became reckless, but I didn't have the passion or the desire to
kind of contribute in a society. Like, it was like, my values had just gone up the door because
there's no point. And like, so it was depression, it was that. And I don't know, like,
it's it's also it's also so funny, though, because a lot of people, I know, I know people who've
gone the other way, where they start doubting their faith. And then all of a sudden, life means
everything. Like, they're like, Oh, no, this is the one life we have. Like, this isn't just a
doormat to wipe my feet on as I go to heaven. Like, I'm going to travel. I'm going to like,
spend time with my loved ones. I'm going to like, if this is a big slice of delicious cake, that'll
eventually go off. I'm going to eat this cake. I mean, like, I'm going to eat this piece of cake
and try to enjoy it. So it's interesting how different perspectives can flip like you can
you can become really depressed or really motivating. Well, I think it just goes down to
the wiring of your brain. Like, if I don't have a goal, and what's hard for me too is I'm looking
for a standard for me to measure up to so that I can be told I'm good, or I'm doing it bad.
That doesn't exist. Like, there's no rules to if you are an atheist, there's no rules to witchcraft,
there's no rules to Hinduism, there's no rules to any of this, because I don't believe in the
mythology behind it. And it's living to learning to live in the gray and trust myself and not
try to look for external validation, which is something that I really struggle with. And that's
and I just I'm looking for a grade all the time. And so
that's what religion has done to me. And this is why I am putting myself back under structure
so that I have something. Does that make sense? Am I making any sense? No, you are. You are. I just
something you said that something you said stood out to me. Have you heard of Epictetus? Epictetus?
Have you heard of Epictetus? Epictetus? To be honest, I've only just heard of him, so I might be.
But he said, if you were ever tempted to look outside for approval, this is something that I
just learned. So I realized that you have compromised your own integrity. If you need a witness, be
your own. That was really hard for me to ponder, because I often ask people, what do you think
about this? Or like, I want someone to tell me like, oh, you did good in that interview or you did
bad. Like, I want to know because I feel like I can fool myself all the time. Yeah. So I don't know
that's just maybe something to ponder. I don't know if it's true, but it's just something that I
thought was interesting. Yeah, I'm happy that resonated because that would be that like I didn't
need I like I'd like self help books because they're they're great. I guess what kind of
shit I like to read. Yeah, well, his his self help from 200 BC or 200 AD, I think. Hell yeah,
the first self help office. I don't know. Yeah, one of them. So
so I've got I've got I have so many. So my mind is kind of racing with like directions we could
take this but I think there was something I was going to ask before that I forgot. I apologize
as well because I've been all over the the shop. You got to put like reins on me because I'm like
no, no, I'm also we're both just I'm hungover. So I'm both just like our brains are firing at like
20%. Yeah, we have such a horrible like time difference between you and me because I'm like
yeah. So you're in Canada. You're in Canada now. Hey,
yeah, cool. That's cool. I'd like to get Atlantic time. So
yeah. So what time is it for you over there now? 12 30 or 12 20 or whatever.
Okay, it's two 20pm for me, which is nice. So you actually mentioned the chocolate ritual study.
Could you talk a little bit about that? Because that's really interesting.
Yeah. So in my YouTube video on like, what is what is ritual agnosticism? I talked about a study
where they gave people some chocolate and in one group, they had them perform a ritual. And what
is a ritual might be helpful. Like it has to meet a specific criteria in order to be considered
a ritual. So like number one, that's going to be like physical movement, like an action, a gesture
like an utterance, stuff like that to it must follow a predetermined and recognizable series
of actions or patterns. So you could be saying something multiple times, you know, ringing a bell,
you know, like whatever it is, but it has to be in a pattern. And then three is the combination
of physical action and recognizable patterns of action must be undertaken by the participant
for symbolic experiential and or meaningful purposes. And so what they did is they had
the one test group perform like a ritual before or while eating the chocolate. And
that group reported that they ate it more slowly because they were really enjoying it. It was
more delicious. They even reported because you're really bringing your focus in instead of just
like consuming chocolate. So the ritual does bring meaning to whatever it is you are doing.
It's been a little while since I read that study, but I'm pretty sure that's
Yeah, it's it's that's it's super interesting that we can do that. I've read and I'm probably
going to butcher this, but I read somewhere or saw somewhere that there was like, they had these
like strangers, like get asked a question. But like before that they, oh, no, they were
sorry, I'm screwing this up. But essentially, like, just by offering someone a cold drink
or a warm drink, it would change the way they would remember the whole situation like like
crazily. Once again, I'm butchering it because I don't actually I'm just telling everyone half
half the idea. But I wanted to I got some questions for you.
Unless there's something else you wanted to touch on with the ritual as nosesism.
I'm good. Okay, cool. So, so the first question I always ask everyone, and it'd be interesting
to hear what you'll say to this. What if anything would change your mind?
Would anything change my mind? Yeah, what if anything would change your mind about God?
Uh, evidence would be one. But you think of, okay, like, once I determined that Christianity was
false, I didn't, it just kind of was like every deity, right? Like there's, it's, and if there is a
deity, it has absolutely no interaction with us. Like, there'd be no way to prove that without,
like, using the scientific method. So like, if there was something like that,
yeah, like evidence would change my mind. Based off of like, if it was the Abrahamic God,
you talk about like, I mean, it's easy for us to say that we wouldn't worship that deity, even if
it was real, because he's just an, you know, ego maniac, crazy person, right? Narcissist. And,
but like, think about it, like, if that were true, gosh, I don't know, like, I probably cave because
just think of like, eternal torture, you know what I mean? Like, but yeah, like, just
philosophically, I would not worship that deity if it was true, but it would have to be sufficient
evidence, I guess, that like, the scientific method is awesome, like, that it's demonstratable,
that it's repeatable, you know, like that, that is all we really have to determine truth, you know,
so. So, so what would evidence look like for like, the existence of a God, do you think?
Yeah, I don't know, like, I have no idea. Yeah, it's a tough one, because a lot of
street preachers will say that, and then they'll go, well, if you don't know what evidence you need,
then you're, then you don't, like, you can never be convinced. When we know, like, I mean, right?
There's no reason, for me, it makes no sense that God wouldn't, if God cared about us, like,
assuming God gave a shit about us caring about him, we shouldn't need to read it from a book,
like, you could just tell it, you could just say to everyone, hey, I'm real, like, in their mind,
they know for a fact that he's real, and then they have a choice whether or not they want to follow
him or not, that's still free will, like, it's still free will there.
Well, you think about him walking in the garden with Adam and Eve, like, if there was somebody
here on earth, that everybody was seeing, not just me, and was, I don't know, like, see, I don't
even know if I'd like worship him, because I'd be like, wow, okay, let's, let's study this guy,
why is he able to do these things, you know? Yeah, it'd be like, yeah, you'd have a few questions,
like, so why was it okay to drown babies in the flood? Like, just things like that. It'd be interesting
to ask. Yeah. What is the next, next question, last question, what is the most, actually,
I'll throw in a bonus question, but what is the most plausibly true religion you don't believe in?
I guess it's all from the most plausibly true religion that you don't believe in.
I like Buddhism. So many people say that. Yeah. So many people say that.
I just feel like, okay, do you know who Thich Quang Duc is?
Is that, sorry, is that like a YouTuber name, or is that like some Saint Fet? Okay. No, it's the man
that started himself on fire in, in the Vietnam War. The cover of, um,
Machinesome, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Well, and like Time Magazine, yeah. Oh, okay.
But like, he was a Buddhist, and he got, like, there was someone else recently, literally recently,
that set themselves on fire that was also a Buddhist this day and age over climate change
activism. It didn't get nearly as much coverage as it should have, which is really sad that that was
done in vain. But there's climate change is a bad meme. What? Like climate change is a bad meme.
People hate talking about climate change where everyone loved shooting on the Vietnam War. So
that's probably why it didn't happen. Yeah. Don't get me started on that topic. But there's something
too that, that they can get themselves into a contemplative meditative mind where they can
sit there on fire. And it's like, we have documentation, like, like videography of these
people where they didn't flinch, and they just sat there, like, that's, that's amazing to me.
What is happening? What are you tapping into that you can literally shut off like your pain
receptors? And there seems to be unity amongst the Buddhists. Now, that may not be historically true,
but maybe modern Buddhism that is a lot of different. Well, there are a lot of different
sects of Buddhism. I really liked the Dhammapada, if anyone's loved likes, I think that's a really
atheistic, a lot of people call the atheistic part of Buddhism, but Dhammapada is a good book. But the
once again, this author wrote about it, translated it, that's great. But
they, there's some sects of Buddhism that believe in hell, which, but it's kind of a
hell that I can get on board with. If you're just so bad at burning your karma off through
every existence of life, like you just can't do it, like getting rid of your karma and increasing
your dharma and becoming enlightened, you go to hell, but it's only temporary to burn off the karma
that and it's just the process of burning off the karma so you can become enlightened. So it's
like a, so like where where Christianity is like a test, like traditional Christianity is like a test
where you fail, you go to hell, Islam is like a test, you fail, you go to hell, that's it for
eternity. You know, nice Christians will say it's destruction, which doesn't sound that bad to me.
But then you've, but then you've got, but Buddhism, it's like, well, no, if you stuff up,
you go to hell and you're just, and then you're given like another chance, like you're,
hell serves a purpose rather than just like torture. And I thought it was really cool.
That's something that I, I'd like the concept of. That was a nice concept for me.
My light shut off, but yeah, well, and it makes more sense too, because
if, if, if hell is real, it should be like in comparison to whatever it is that you did, right?
In Christianity, it's like, oh yeah, you hit a dog on your way home, hell. Oh, you're a murderer
of billions of people, hell, but they're the same consequence. Like it should be,
well, I don't even know if hitting a dog on your way home would be hell. Like I think,
yeah, it's true. No consequences for that. Like, but like, you know,
you know, someone, Jeffrey, Jeffrey Dahmer, Jeffrey Dahmer eats someone and then repents
in prison, heaven, the, the sister or the brother or the mom or the dad who can't forgive him,
but lives their life perfectly in every other way or lives the best life they can. They help
at the soup kitchen, hell, eternal punishment. Like that is crazy to me because they can't forgive
someone who ate, ate there. It's, yeah, it's, it's, it's actually immoral, I would say. That's,
that's the question I was actually going to ask before. Where do you get your morals from,
Biddy? Where do you get your morals from? That's a question Christians like to ask.
Uh, well, I think morals are all subjective, um, us being the subject. So, and heavily influence
based off of empathy and society, but like if we just have empathy and, you know, this is the golden
rule throughout all different religions is, I don't like to say treat others as you would like to
be treated, but like just what if you're like a certain domesticist or something? Like what if you
like to be degraded like sexually or something? Yeah. Like I've got a real, I've got a degrading
fetish. So it's like, it's like, don't treat people how you want to be treated. Yeah. Like just
equality and, you know, you are a sentient being. I don't want to cause harm to you.
It's funny. I had to jump on and we argued about morals for ages and we disagree. I don't believe
morals are real. I believe I'm kind of a moral anti-realist. I think that people just operate
within their own preferences, but on the, on the like, but I would say that in a way that morals
are subjective. So I do believe in morals, but not in the way that a lot of other people think.
I think, I think the people operating within their own preferences are subjective,
but we got into a huge argument and he made this funny point that he believes morals are objective
and this is like a law of the universe we haven't discovered. And he said that, that-
What would they be? Well, he says that, watch the episode with T-Jump. It's a bit of a shitshow,
but the, so he believes that there's like an unfound law of the universe that we haven't
discovered yet. That is morality. So like- So like love? Like love would be the moral-
I'm not sure, but like it's always wrong to punch, it was always wrong to punch a baby.
Like it's always wrong to eat, eat meat and he still does it because he just considers himself
an immoral person, but he said that a society with that, the most moral society would be a
society that doesn't like infringe on people's like free will. I think is what he said. So
like there'd be no stop signs. There'd be no, like that would be the perfectly moral society.
But he, but anyway, it's a long thing and I don't really, I don't agree with him at all, but
what was really funny is he said that religious morality is subjective. He said that it's the
only one that is subjective. He said because it's dependent on the mind of God and that's
what subjective means. And I was just like, damn. And I was like, that's actually really interesting.
But then I also love what Dr. Josh said and Dr. Josh said, if you believe that you get your
morality from the Bible, you don't know that slavery is wrong. And I was like, damn, like-
Yeah, who is it? Who is it? Sam Harris. He has a whole thing on this and he talks about how
divine law is just the absolute worst. Cause like if you ask, oh God, it's so good. And I
haven't seen it forever. So I can't, I'm going to butcher it. But he talks about like asking,
you know, a child, if it's okay to hit somebody and they say no. And then you say, you say to the
same child, well, what if the teacher tells you to hit somebody? They still say no. But that's
like in divine command theory, now what if your God is telling you to do that? You now
are basically a psychopath because you have, oh, it's so good. It's so good. And I don't mean to
like say that in like a really demeaning way, but like it's basically the structure of sociopathic
tendencies when you think of divine command theory. That's so good. And I also love that
for most of this podcast, it's been me and you trying to remember what we were talking about.
And then half remembering, half remembering studies and things that we've heard that we kind
of butcher. I've been way worse than you, but like, damn, this is, this is great. I'm having a good
time.
Stuff was like two songs. I couldn't remember anything. Literally, I remember all of the lyrics
to like gangster's paradise. And like, but then I'm like, um, you know, just something I read
today. I can't remember shit. Yeah, yeah. I'll read an entire book and I won't remember it until
I'm like angry and arguing with someone online and then all those sorts of come back. It's like,
I know the adrenaline to like wake up that part of my brain. But I've been having a great time. I
don't know about everyone listening because we've just been all over the place, but I've had a great
time. Has everyone else had a great time? Let me know if you had a great time or if you've got
any questions. I've got one last question to ask, Billy, unless someone else has any questions.
And that is, if you could, I assume you don't believe in an afterlife, right?
Are you a materialist?
Yes. Well, okay. Going back into the ritual agnosticism, I like reincarnation.
Okay.
I like it. I don't necessarily like it too. I just don't think it's true.
Yeah, I don't think it's true either. But I am choosing to live my life as though it is.
So you kind of like, you can't, you're going to get yourself ended. You're kind of like the
Jordan Peterson of the Eastern religion. Sorry. Sorry. I just, I knew that would be so offensive.
No, but that's exactly what he says. He says he lives his life as if
like his, you know, like as if he was a god. But that's bullshit. He's just
kind of shit. Like, no, you know, I'm not, and that has so many problems with it. But like,
I just pick philosophies I like that help motivate me to be a better human and then pretend they're
real ritual agnosticism right there. I missed a question, Andrew. Where did, did you come up with
the bitty part of your name? Okay, so my last name is something. And bitty is the nickname for that.
Oh, okay. My real name on social media, because I don't want to get murdered.
Oh, can you give us your address though? Yeah, it's
I sometimes ask people on stream like, Hey, can you, can you tell everyone how much you earn
and where you live? Thanks. No, but someone said, bitty looks fantastic. I agree. Love the whole vibe
going on. I don't know if we can mention the thing that you're talking about before stream, but
but if you feel like it, you can. Tang said, I am God Kanye West. Kanye West sucks.
He's racist God, if he is.
Yeah, cool. So the last question is so, and I guess you can't even kind of already answered it,
but if you could choose an afterlife or some form of the spirit moving on from any religion,
and it would immediately become true, not just for you, but for everyone, what would you choose?
Okay, so I kind of I like, like in Sikh, or Sikh, Sikhism, Sikhism, they kind of have this like,
you're being reincarnated to purify your soul. I like that and I like reincarnation, but I want
to make my own twist on it. And I like, I like to think of us as like, energy, and that we are all
the same, and eternal, and to think this is okay. Let's say you are eternal. And you are given an
opportunity to come to earth to experience, which would be like a blip in the spectrum of eternity
to experience sorrow, and joy, and hope, and sadness, and anger, and like, and, and, you know,
grief, would you do it? And I would, I think, I'd like to think that I said yes, which then when
I'm here, and I'm going through what, I'm just like disheartened about something, it twists it to
become this is an emotion I'm experiencing. And so you sit in it, and you just like, okay, and
that's, that's what I'd like to think is the afterlife. And I don't know if that is like,
a specific religion, but it's kind of like learning about different philosophies and making my own.
Interesting. Interesting. How about you?
Well, have you seen Rick and Morty?
I've watched Rick and Morty.
So like, I know Rick and Morty is a little cringe these days, but there's like one episode where
they're in like an alien arcade, and like, and he lives a whole life.
Yeah, and they're like, he chose to be a shoe repair man.
You went back to work after the cancer, boo. And then he takes it and he's like, oh, yeah,
it's called Brian. That's exactly it. I was literally just talking about this same thing,
that same episode, and that's kind of the concept that I'm thinking of. And that's why it's like,
okay, so I chose to come here. Like I'm just that in that scenario, he's a human, but like,
I chose to come here, and I'm working a nine to five, like you said, sometimes people go nihilistic,
and some people are like, this is the only shot you get. I had that, I lost it. And then I've
re put it back on to me, because when I left Christianity, I wanted to travel, I wanted to
see everything, I wanted to experience everything, because I only had a limited time here. And then
I came nihilistic. And now I'm putting myself back under that same mindset of, I'm here to
experience this, and I got to experience that, like, so it's weird how I just chose to then remove it
from atheism and put it into, I don't know, I'm weird. Like, I don't understand the brain.
That's so good. That's so good. So before we wrap up, we got one last message from Tang,
Betty, tell them about how we pray in tongues for all of the atheists.
Yes, we have prayer meetings every Wednesday evening, and we pray protection over all of the
atheist content creators. Yeah, I like blessings. We sometimes have like friends around and stuff,
and if we're going to eat around a table, which we never really do, but when we do,
grab everyone's hands and I go, everybody pray and like, thank you Neil deGrasse Tyson for the
scientific method. Thank you for teaching us critical skills. Like, I pray to Neil deGrasse
Tyson, that's who we pray to in this house, even though he didn't create the scientific method,
and he's just like, it's just a meme. Anyway, thank you so much, Betty, for coming on.
Thank you. It was fascinating talking to you. I hope everyone else had a good time,
as we like skipped around a million different subjects, but I learned a lot and it's super
interesting. Is there anything you want to promote before we jump off? Anything coming up or
anything? If you want to follow me on TikTok, I don't post too much anymore, but if you just scroll
through, you'll get a shit ton of different content pertaining. Like, if you have some
Christian relatives, you might want to watch my content so you can really argue with them
this coming Thanksgiving or Christmas, I put all of the Bible verses in there
for you to be able to pull up. And then I have my YouTube channel, so if you're interested in
more ritual agnosticism, that's where I'm going to be teaching it. And then stay tuned for that
book. You can also follow me on Twitter at bitty Buddha, bitty Buddha, like anywhere. You'll find
all my socials. Awesome. Yeah, that's it. Cool. And for those who like to listen to this podcast,
this episode will be on podcasting apps very shortly. You can subscribe there if you want to
listen to it on the way to work. And of course, we have a bunch of awesome streams coming up. And
when we get to 1000 subscribers, oh, we've gone off subscribers. Thanks, guys. When we go up in
soon when we get to 1000 subscribers, we'll be doing a charity stream and raising money for a
cool charity. So stay tuned for that. And with that said, I'd like to say thank you so much,
bitty for coming on. It's been awesome. And everyone, I hope you have a great night. See you
later.
