වවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවව
වවවවවවවවවව වවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවmoothcrew
වවවවවවවවවවව඄වව වවවවවවව඀වවව
නෘහ වවළවවව↓ සටහවඊඣ මද්කයි
වවවවව ඔඪවවවවවවවව෌ඔව඀ව key곡
willing
you
okay
and
they
will
වවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවව
වවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවව�
වවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවව
වවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවව
වවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවවව
ශශවවව here සහව඀වහවවව
වවව වවවṣ ශවවවවවව඀වවවවවවżeli�වවවව
වවවවවව වවවamoto кол servant
oshima.. ව.. වවවවවальном�ව Honors... වවවවවවවවවවවවව
manufacture
So, how did you even get to the first point? We'll start from the beginning.
Okay, the beginning. It's 1983, the 8th of May, and John is born.
So, I was born, I was born into a, I was baptised as a Christian because back in the 80s, regardless of religious belief, kids were in the UK at least, baptised into a church because that was just the thing to do.
I never went to church other than with school because that's what schools did.
So, I wasn't ever really brought up with any real religious belief.
However, my grandmother on my mother's side was, she claimed to be a spiritualist medium.
So, I was surrounded by mediums.
She had crystal balls everywhere and she believed she could talk to dead people and all she would talk about was,
after life and speaking to the dead and all this.
And my mother kind of pushed me a little bit into doing that kind of thing, you know, learning to speak to dead people.
And I, when I was a kid, I would think that I could hear children playing outside my bedroom at midnight, which obviously wasn't happening.
If it was, if you were hearing that, it was more likely that there were children rather than...
Or, I was hallucinating because I was in a dream-like state at midnight.
So, you know, those sorts of things.
And there was one time that I freaked out.
I was at my grandmother's house where there's all this energy where she believed she can talk to dead people.
So, it's on everybody's mind that there are dead people around.
So, one day at my grand's house, I saw a person walk through my sister's bedroom door.
I say through because the door was closed.
He walked through the door.
Or at least that's what I believe.
But again, it was in the middle of the night.
And I was maybe sleepwalking or, you know, getting up in a kind of hazy state.
And now I would just put it down to that.
And the fact that you're surrounded by people who go,
well, we believe in dead people and lost spirits.
They just go, well, that's obviously what you saw, John.
Or at that time, Jonathan.
Because I'm John Short, but Jonathan, they didn't call me.
It took a long time to get them to start calling me that.
Anyway, so I was surrounded by people who believe they can speak to dead people.
And my gran always said to me, you know, you've got the gift.
You've got the gift, little Jonathan.
You can do this.
And my mother was so annoyed because she wanted to be able to do it.
But my gran kept telling her, well, it skips a generation.
Oh, yeah.
So apparently, yeah, logically consistent.
Exactly.
So it skips a generation.
So you don't have it, daughter, but your son does.
And I was the favorite grandchild out of 15.
Even though my mother's the youngest of all of my grandkids.
I don't know how that worked out.
But so my gran, I think because she saw something in me that she,
I became the favorite grandchild and she'd like tell me about all these how to speak to dead people.
Anyway, years go past.
Lots of years.
I probably started really looking into becoming a medium when I was in my 20s.
Because when you're a teenager, all you can think about is girls.
And well, if you're a cis het fella, you think about girls and boobs because you're teenagers and that's what you do.
So I wasn't really concentrating on the whole speaking to dead people.
But then I don't know if you had it over there.
But in the UK, we had a show called Most Haunted.
I don't think I've seen.
Well, I'm sure I've seen something like that.
It's so ghost hunting, but they televise it and they do live events and try and catch things on camera.
You know, it's the early 2000s and they're using technology.
Yeah, it was.
And that's what reignited my love for the paranormal.
I was like, OK, this is time I really start thinking seriously about becoming a medium.
So I started buying books and looking online.
Even though at that time the internet was still like becoming a really big thing.
I mean, I know it was around in the 90s, but it was it was the 2000s where the internet really went.
Oh, we've got a website for absolutely everything.
So I was like, OK, I'm going to go search how to become a paranormal activist or not activist.
How to become a paranormal activist.com.
Yeah, there's probably something like that.
Maybe if not, I'm going to buy it after this.
And so yeah, I started searching.
I was also very outspoken in my early 20s about the lack of belief in a god
because you don't have to believe in a deity to be a spiritualist.
All you believe in is the afterlife.
So I had the position like, well, I believe that something happens to you after you die.
But I don't believe in an over like an overlord or a being that looks after everything.
I think you die and your spirit lives on and you get to go and annoy people and push things around.
You know, and here I am.
I'm a ghost is a little pencil.
You know, what would happen if like I if you know Christian Dave captain Christian came and came to you and said,
how do you explain the universe?
Where do we come from?
I would have gone down the the big bang big bounce at the time.
It was mostly because big bounce is like a fairly new concept from what I'm aware.
Well, I don't think it was getting popular.
Yeah, you know what I mean?
It's like, yeah, it's becoming big in society.
Yeah, it's only 2000s when the big bang.
Oh, it's not the big bang.
It's the big bang.
Got it.
Anyway, it's so hot back then.
Right.
Right.
But so I was I would go well, duh.
Obviously science can explain that.
It just can't explain what happens after you die.
And I that mentality was with me for ages.
And I'd have friends who were full on skeptics going, well, how can you not believe in this?
But you believe in this.
And I was like, well, duh, I've got the gift.
Yeah.
Obviously.
Yeah.
And so I was like, I've seen this show.
There are mediums that go on TV.
I've always wanted to be an actor.
So I was like, I can combine the two.
So that was my like drive.
I could become a TV medium and go and prove that ghosts are real.
And the more I researched and was like, how do I get to do this and trying things out?
Nothing was working.
And there was one day that was the turning point for me.
I am a runner.
I like to run.
And I've been training for my first.
It was maybe it was my second.
No, it was my first 10 K.
It's not a very big distance.
Now I breeze that.
But I was like, I'm going to train and do a 10 K.
And all of my friends were joining in and we all trained together and we spend evenings running as fast and as far as we could.
And a friend of mine, his name's Russ.
And he is a very or was a very, very unhealthy man smoking all the time, drinking all the time, eating unhealthy stuff up late every night.
He was very overweight and he started running and lost all of this weight and he looked incredible.
I mean, he looked incredible before, but you know, he looked slim.
You know what I mean?
But you know, and we all did this race and where I'm six foot two got long legs and I can bomb.
I go fast.
I finished the race and about 30 minutes later, Russell comes running down and about 100 meters from the end falls over.
And we're like, oh, that's a bit weird.
So everybody runs up to check on him.
It's not moving, not responding.
And the St. John's ambulance.
Do you have those fellas over maybe that commonwealth thing or Red Cross?
Not Red Cross.
You know, the health people that are on events like that put a heart rate monitor on his finger and like there's no heart rate.
What we can do is they start doing CPR.
He died.
He died there and then.
Holy shit.
And I'm like, oh, I'm I've got the gift.
I can let I'm going to look for him.
I'm going to I'm going to just search around and just see like, I'll tell Russ to go back in his body and it'll be okay.
And I'm looking around and everybody's panicking and like pumping on his chest.
A friend of mine is a police officer, but he's also medic trained.
So he pushed these people out the way because they weren't doing it right.
And he starts taking over him given Russ CPR and he's there for like seven minutes and just nothing's happening.
The ambulance crew turn up and take Russ away and I'm the whole time I'm looking for Russ.
I'm like, well, you know me.
You can come out and I'll help you and I'll get you back in your body and all this and it will be okay.
Didn't see you.
And that was the point where I went, there's something not right here.
Fortunately, Russ is alive today.
They got him.
I just wanted to leave you with that.
I was like, I sort of see your face.
That was terrible.
Next week on Deep Drinks, Russ.
Yeah, he's come back from the dead.
Anyway, so Russ is fine.
I mean, he's Russ and he was dead for like 11.
Maybe it wasn't 11 minutes, but it was almost 11 minutes or something technically dead.
But they resuscitated him and he was in a coma for two or three weeks as he was coming back.
But that was the moment that I went, there's something fishy about all this.
And it took something big like that for me to realise.
And at that time, I'm in my...
Just quickly, did Russ have like a heart attack or what happened?
Yeah, yeah, that's exactly what happened.
He had a heart attack.
Yeah, it was like sudden cardiac arrest or something.
Yeah, yeah, that's exactly what happened.
We call him now the Barksha Jesus because that's where I'm from in the UK.
Because he came back from the dead.
And I spoke to him plenty of times and said, you know, what happened?
Did you see anything?
He's like, no, it just went dark and then I woke up in a hospital.
Yeah.
So there was a...
His soul hadn't left his body yet, John.
That's why I didn't see him.
Oh, I'm the believer again.
Okay, that explains everything.
But yeah, so it was at that moment.
So after doing the research and going, no, something isn't quite right.
That was the moment that I said no more to any supernatural belief.
I'd been an atheist almost all of my life.
But it was at that moment that I was like, I'm not going to be spiritual either.
Because it's just a load of BS.
Right.
But it took a big thing to finally push me over and go, oh, okay, this is a load of rubbish.
Yeah.
Yeah, true.
Yeah.
Wow.
So were you researching like the skepticism before that or was it like...
Yeah, not skepticism as such.
I never really went down the skeptic route until probably like maybe 10 years ago.
No, be less than that.
Seven years ago, I started going down like, how do you explain away all of this?
Not explain away, but what are the alternatives to religious belief?
To magic.
Yeah, yeah, to the supernatural.
And that's when I discovered the ACA and started watching.
I started really binge watching atheist experience and going, oh, these are really good arguments.
And I'd have conversations on social media with people who were friends and I would say something.
There was a video from Chris Pratt.
Was it Kids Choice Awards or something like that?
And he got an award, but he thanked God for the award.
And I posted the clip.
It's just saying how utterly disappointed I was that Chris Pratt, who was in a privileged position, is spouting off that there's a God and people will go, oh, well, if Chris Pratt believes,
I should probably believe too.
And I was so peed off with that.
And friends of mine were coming on and arguing for the existence of a God through that video.
And I was going, there's something not right here.
Maybe more people should speak out against God belief and say why it's not the best thing in the world.
So that was the moment that I got spurred on.
And that was like seven or eight years ago.
So it's actually funny that you mentioned that like last week I had or two weeks ago I had my wife on me to spoke about IVF journey.
And we had a friend invite us to a church because they had a prophecy that someone someone's family member had endometriosis and needed to get needed to get prayer and they were going to get healed and have a baby.
And we were told about this information because they thought it was Amy.
And there was really, it was actually really conflicting only because it brought me back into that old mindset.
But what really set me free from that mindset is I realized that if that was the case, if God was going to show up or something was going to happen,
that next weekend, if we went to church to get prayer from this prophet that was coming, I didn't want to.
I want God to use his power to save that little girl from being raped, to save her from being beaten by his dad, to save that starting mother, to save like anything else.
Like if he's got the power to do anything in the world, it's fine.
We can go through the medical system.
We can save up money.
We can pay for it.
How dare, it paints God, I'm not saying God's a monster.
But the idea that Chris Pratt is thanking God for his award.
It's like, whoa, whoa, whoa, God's given you awards, but he's not dealing with these starving children.
Like you're making God have to be a monster, a monster, like a disgusting monster.
And that's what Chris Pratt is saying and he believes in God.
But it's like that's the logical consequences of his belief.
Right, exactly.
Yeah, it's harsh, but it's true.
Anyway, I've lost my train of thought now.
Well, I do have some little notes because I'm listening to stuff.
But I want to just hop back into, because I want to talk about, I want to eventually get to the angry atheist edge lord days, right?
Because I've been there, we all go there.
But first, can we talk a little bit more about, like, you know, going to medium readings and conventions and all.
That's hilarious.
Yeah, it's so funny.
And I've only done it probably four times in my entire life.
However, one of those times I was in a big massive arena that had thousands and thousands of people there listening to one guy talk.
Right.
And that's just the people.
Imagine how many spirits are there as well.
Oh, no, right?
Well, you had to buy an extra seat.
You had to buy two seats, one for you and one for your spirit person to come and join you.
You did it.
That would have been hilarious.
Actually, there's got to be a market for that.
Maybe I'll become a medium.
Like, you get like a more anointed seat or something that gives the spirits, like, yeah, there's a way, there'll be a way to do it.
Yeah.
So I've been to some some very strange church meetings because it's kind of a church.
But actually, one of the very first ones I remember going to was in a church for a different for like a religion.
But it wasn't talking about it was like, we're going to talk about dead people today.
Was it like it was like a hiring out a whole or something?
Yes, it was a church hall.
But they were like, I don't think thinking about it now.
And this is literally, I've just realized this, the people who worked at that church probably wouldn't have been happy with like meeting stuff going on.
Definitely not.
It's like devil's work.
Yeah.
Wow.
Okay.
There's this local, local like community center where I live and anyone can hire it out.
Right.
And Hillsong Nusa has been hiring about week in and week out.
They've got a permanent sign there.
It's like they're a little like essentially their church, right?
So the Nusa temple of Satan decided we're going to hire it out and do a seance there and stuff.
And they charged everyone $6.66 to come in.
That's brilliant.
And all this stuff.
And they actually had to shut down.
They weren't allowed after the first one because the people who went to Hillsong were causing so much trouble for the staff there.
They were abusing them.
They were like coming in and saying this is wrong.
They were doing all this stuff to make the second of the people who are running this place problems.
So yeah, it was a big hoohah.
The guy's going through court now and he might be on the podcast soon.
Oh, awesome.
Yeah.
That's hilarious.
I love that.
Well, so yeah, I've been to them.
And have you ever seen any like medium stuff on TV or are you aware of what goes on there?
Yeah, I kind of.
And I've seen that episode of South Park where, you know, like that.
Yeah.
That is what happens.
It's exactly like that.
Yeah, it's it.
So tell it for everyone who doesn't know what actually happened.
So it's like an arena.
Yeah.
Well, let's go for the small ones first.
It's a church hall and there are four or five chairs at the front with four or five different mediums and they take it in turns to speak to dead people.
They must take it out of them to make all this stuff up.
So like they can't just keep going.
Maybe that's amateur status because further on I've got another story.
But yeah, so when you're just first starting out being a medium, you've got all these old people sitting at the front and they're about to say some stuff.
And they'll go, I'm getting someone who died recently.
I want to say recently.
It's probably within the last 10 years.
That's not recent.
Sheila, 10 years and the name begins with an M or an N.
Oh, my grand Nancy died last week.
Oh, yeah, that's her.
That's her.
She's talking to and it's that kind of language.
And at the time when you're in it and you're going, oh, I really can't wait for someone to come and speak to me.
Yeah.
You go that could be me and you make it fit.
And that's the thing.
You're talking to people.
All these mediums are talking to people who want to hear something about someone they love or loved.
So it's a very easy thing to do because you're just preying on people's emotions, essentially.
Stepping back and watching that happen is disgusting.
Absolutely disgusting.
But I remember at that particular meeting, my mum got a message from someone.
And my gran had died many years ago.
My mum and my gran were very close.
My mum sitting there and this lady starts reeling off information.
It was some weird aunt that she barely knew that was coming through.
If anybody was going to come through and speak to my mother, do you not think it would be the person she was closest to?
Do you not think it would be my gran who would want to pass on a message?
So witnessing it at the time, I was like, that's so cool that you got a message.
I wonder if I'll get a message one day.
So that's like the kind of small one.
You just got four or five people sitting in front of an audience of 30 or 40 people and they'll just spout out random things.
And someone will go, oh, that could be me.
Give me more information and they just make it fit.
There's a guy, a famous medium in the UK.
I'm not in the UK anymore, by the way. I live in America.
So I don't know if any of this stuff goes on because I don't have access to British TV anymore.
But there was a guy called Derek Acora and his name may be known over in the Commonwealth over there.
He was the medium that people wanted to go and see and he was doing a British tour.
Going around to all these huge venues.
That's him. That's Derek.
He's from Liverpool.
I've got a spirit guide, Sam.
Tell me, Sam.
And he'll go through Sam, his spirit guide, who will give him the information.
Well, Sam's telling me this.
How do they all look like him, kind of Copeland?
All these big-time scammers have a certain look about them.
Listen, mate, he was my hero at one point.
So don't speak negative about him, please.
He did a tour and he went to...
I'm from the south of England.
There's a big theatre called The Hexagon in Reading that I went to and it holds thousands of people.
And I went and joined and watched Derek Acora for two hours talking to dead people.
And it was amazing.
I loved every second of it.
At one point, he pointed up to where I was sitting and said,
I've got a message for you.
And I looked and I looked at my then-girlfriend and I was like,
What?
And he started saying some stuff.
And the bloody guy next to me goes,
That's for me.
I was like, come on.
Derek Acora almost had a message for me.
And this guy...
You're this close.
I literally was touching shoulders with the guy who got a message.
And he...
Derek's saying stuff to the guy and the guy's like,
No, that doesn't sound right.
That doesn't sound right at all.
And Derek kept going on, going on.
And then somebody on the far bloody side of the theatre went,
No, that's my person.
And Derek just ignores me and the guy next to me and spins around and goes,
Yeah, that's right.
Sam's telling me it's for you.
And at the time you're going,
Wow, how's he doing this?
Now I'm going,
Why the hell is he doing this?
Yeah.
It's like spiritual mirrors.
It was bouncing the signal off.
Yeah.
That's crazy.
I actually, just to stay on the medium stuff,
My ex-wife, her sister,
Was massively into going and getting readings.
And there was a huge family falling out one day because
I was probably still in my angry atheist stage at that point.
No, I probably left it a long time before then.
But just for this one reason,
I'd gone back into angry mode because I thought it was bloody ridiculous.
I had a two hour conversation with my ex-sister-in-law about why it was ridiculous
that she was paying £100 to go and see someone just to tell her what she wanted to hear.
That's the mentality over there.
Yes, the UK isn't very religious,
but there are people, a lot of people believe in ghosts
and a lot of people believe in spirits,
which is exactly where I was.
I didn't believe in a God,
but I did believe in the afterlife for a long time.
It's funny that you can probably trace that
because when we were over in the UK,
but mainly when we were in Edinburgh,
there were so many ghost tours and stories of fairies
and Celtic folklore and stuff like that.
I wonder if that's just all part of...
If you grew up in Thailand, you're probably a Buddhist.
If you grew up in the UK,
you're probably some sort of a Christian
with a little bit of paranormal stuff in there somewhere.
Yes, that's interesting.
Although I do think...
I don't think many people are Christian in the UK anymore.
I really do think that it's more and more non-affiliated
to any religion.
You might have some who, like me, believe in an afterlife,
but that's it.
When it comes to an actual religion,
barely anybody goes to church over there anymore,
which is great.
I'm all for it.
I think in Australia, we just had...
I can't remember the number exactly,
but Christianity has just dropped below 50%.
Atheism has doubled in the last 10 years.
Wow!
It's been going crazy.
I think it has to do with the 2017 or 2018 census
with the same-sex marriage purposes,
because the Christians really pierced off a lot of people
that they somehow thought that other people getting married
was persecution on them.
They thought somehow...
I think people who were maybe on the fence
or grew up religious, they saw what the church was doing,
and they were like, this is ridiculous.
Why can't these people just...
It either made people more extreme,
or jump off.
Yeah.
I don't know if my dad is religious.
I know that my mother is still...
I haven't spoken to my mother in nearly 15 years,
but she was very...
Yeah, there's...
Lots of drama.
My mother was a serial adulterer,
and so I just decided to step away from that.
Hopefully she sees this
and realises just how messed up she is.
I don't think she will.
And so, yeah,
she probably is still a massive believer
in the spiritual world.
And I think my dad is, to some degree,
he doesn't go to church.
I don't think he's ever been to church,
but he was a military man.
So there was always that slight affiliation
with some God because of the Queen and whatnot,
no longer lover soul.
Yeah.
Yeah, right.
So you had that moment with Ras,
where you thought something was going up here,
but how did you go from that to...
That was a moment for you,
but how did you eventually go,
I don't believe in the supernatural
or the paranormal anymore.
Well, that was the moment where I went,
this is just ridiculous.
If anybody was going to have seen Ras,
it would have been me because we're friends
and I've got the gift.
That's when I really went deep into
the ACA and YouTube.
I've been a YouTuber for...
I started a YouTube channel back in 2011,
and I did a daily vlog because everyone was doing it back then.
And I got like at the time like 7,000 subscribers.
So I was on YouTube, I was doing stuff on YouTube.
And so I would just watch videos on atheism
because I wanted to get as much info in as possible
because I was having more conversations with people
at that point about God.
I worked in a media company and half of the people...
Three of the people there were religious
and it would come up in conversation.
And my brains aren't very good.
I am not the smartest person.
So I really panic if conversations come up
where I have to have facts and things to say,
well, I don't believe that because this.
And I didn't really know exactly why I didn't believe.
So that's why I started deep diving into content to go,
okay, this argument makes sense to me.
And I could probably articulate that in this way.
So it was around probably two years after Russ.
And I'm trying to remember exactly what year that was.
Maybe it was like 2012 or 2013.
It was 2014 when I really started diving into it
because I lost loads of...
I was like 220 pounds.
I don't know what that is in kilos.
I'm in America now.
220 pounds, but I went down to 185 pounds through running.
So I know that it was around 2013
because I was playing Danny in Greece
and so I wanted to lose all the weight for it.
And then the following year was when Russ passed away.
So 2014, I'm consuming, watching ACA videos
and trying to get good arguments
and learn about how to refute it.
And that's when the Dunning-Kruger effect
when you get your first feet.
And I'm like, oh, I know everything now.
I start going and talking to people
and they start giving me more rebuttals.
And I'm going, oh, wait a minute.
No, I don't know that.
Okay, I'm going to have to go and do some more research.
And then I found myself going back down
but feeling more confident eventually
in the little loop of the Dunning-Kruger.
You know what I mean.
We all do it.
Did you ever watch that four and a half hour mash-up
of Matt Dillahunty?
Like the best of Matt Dillahunty?
No, I should.
I should.
I watched it like back in the day,
like in my Edge Lord AFS days I call them.
I just watched that over and over again.
Right.
I would just be playing like Starcraft 2
and I'd be drinking some whiskey
and listening to stuff in the background.
It was great.
Nice.
Well, so with running,
running is great because you get to listen to stuff
whilst you're running
and I would put on a podcast whilst running
because I'd go out for like an hour at a time
just to go and blow off some cobwebs
and I'd put on old episodes of The Atheist Experience
that I hadn't heard
and I'd be running along
and somebody would call and they'd say something
and I'd go, I'd shout the answer out whilst running
because I got my headphones in.
People probably thought I was mad
because I'd just be shouting some like answer to an argument
and then Matt Dillahunty would say something very similar.
Yeah, there you go.
And Matt Dillahunty would say essentially what I said
just in a more articulate way.
And I'd just stop and go, I just got that right.
I just said it like Matt Dillahunty
and I just started feeling more and more confident
with how to speak to people.
And it's all come around
because now you've been on the ACA.
You've been on one of the shows, right?
I've been on Truth Wanted twice
and I'm actually going on again on the 4th of November.
That's so cool.
So yeah, that's exciting times
that I'm getting sort of pulled back in.
But so 2014 was when I started deep diving in
but I didn't actually start making content on this
until last year.
So March 2021 was my first atheist inspired video
and lack of belief video.
And I think actually maybe it was a flat earth one.
I can't remember.
I did eight videos that I,
she was my fiance at the time
but my now wife,
I was talking to her saying,
I really want to get back into YouTube
when I come over
because I'm not going to be allowed to work
when I get to America.
So I'm going to have to do something
that's going to take up a lot of time.
My old channel,
I tried to revitalize and give it some new life
but nothing was working.
I had 7000 subscribers
but I was getting maybe 100 views a video.
So it was like,
something's not working here.
And I really studied the analytics of YouTube
and how to make videos work and all this.
And I kept applying it to my channel
and it just wasn't doing anything.
So I said to my now wife,
I'm going to start a new channel.
It's going to be about this.
She's fortunately,
yes, she's a Kentuckian
but she is a non-believer.
So it didn't,
she's like, yeah, go for it.
Give it a go, see what happens.
And so I wrote eight videos,
wrote, recorded, edited eight videos
and then set them up for an eight week release.
So a weekly release over eight weeks.
And my first video got like three views.
I was like, wow, I haven't pushed this anywhere.
That's amazing.
And then the next one got like 20 views
and then it just kept going and going.
It's like, oh, people like the God stuff
more than they like the Flat Earth stuff.
So I'll stick with that.
And it was a test at that time.
And so I started really looking into
what people like to watch
as non-believers in a deity.
And I started making content on that.
And I mean, then it just started going crazy.
After, it took nine months
to get my first 1000 subscribers,
but then it just went.
Yeah.
And your content,
like when I, so I've been on YouTube for,
I don't know,
like I started a few little channels here and there.
I had a game development channel
where I would make, you know,
I would show people how to make indie games
and I got like 7000 subscribers for that,
which was great.
But I wanted to join the conversation.
And I've been like making videos
like around skepticism stuff.
And I've been making videos for like,
I don't know when,
I think it might be like two years now.
Right.
I've gotten nowhere near you
and I was not even a thousand yet.
However, when I went and watched your content,
I was like, oh, I get it.
Be entertaining.
So like,
your content is like,
like I tend to have this problem
and I notice where I want to show people
behind the curtain all the time
into my thought process,
into like everything, right?
It's all, I'm almost,
it's almost like an exchange with the viewer.
Right.
Where I notice with you,
you're presenting something,
you're showing the world,
you're like, this is some,
it's like, well, I'm putting on a show.
And I really learned a lot from your content.
Just I haven't anything to do yet.
Right.
But I've been looking and going,
that's really cool.
Yeah.
There's two kind of,
there's three audiences on YouTube
that I've found.
There's the people who like to watch a show.
Ah, mix it.
The people who like to watch content,
people who like to watch short form content
and people who like to sit
and just listen to people talk,
which they're not the live video audience.
But then the people who want to watch a show
and just want to click on a video
and have something to watch
are the ones that I'm aiming for.
Because they're the ones
that will consume content.
If you've got someone who watches a live video,
live videos are great
because you get to really know a person.
But it's live videos are never 20 minutes.
Live videos are always an hour,
an hour and a half,
maybe two hours.
And it's a lot to commit to.
So you're not going to watch
three or four live videos
one after the other.
I'll just share my screen
just to show.
And this is not interesting,
interesting to anyone.
But look at my content.
It's like,
let's just go to videos.
I've got like 100 videos,
but it's like spicy content,
short content,
a clip from Deep Drinks.
Then there's like a long ass debate
somewhere in here,
like a two and a half hour debate.
It's just all,
the branding is confused.
It's like no one knows
what they're going to get.
So I know the problems are there.
I just haven't changed them yet.
You don't have to be,
because I don't feel like
I'm that entertaining.
I just like putting out content.
And I try and stick to like a format.
And that's what YouTube likes.
It just wants consistency.
So put out a video
the same time every week
or every two days
or however often you do it.
And put out the same kind of content
whenever you put that content out.
So you do a live,
but do a live on a set day every week.
Do a short on the same day every week.
Do an edited video
on the same day every week.
Give YouTube the same stuff
each time to push out to its audience.
Because if you constantly jumping around,
it doesn't know what audience
to send your stuff to.
Because if you're posting every Friday,
you do an edited video.
But then the following,
like three Fridays down the line,
you go, I'm going to do a live this time
because it's a different type of video.
YouTube's going to go,
oh, that's not the video
that your audience usually likes.
So I don't know what to do with this
and it will just freeze.
And that's all I've learned.
That's what I actually pushed deep drinks
to its own channel because of that,
because the branding was confused.
But yeah, it's doing a lot better.
In fact, for those who don't know,
it's a little bad on the bottom.
When we get to 1,000 subscribers,
I'm going to do like a long ass charity stream.
And we're going to be raising money
to give some charity.
So that's going to be really cool.
And we've actually got like,
let me show everyone.
So we, I went on,
I went on to Nuria Khan,
Holy Humanist channel the other day.
So we went from this to this.
So we actually went up like,
a good amount of subscribers,
a good amount of the gold towards the,
the gold.
So yeah, it's pretty,
it's pretty, pretty happy with that.
And it's going to be awesome
when we actually finally get there.
So I can, I can monetizing it
and people can send in super chats and stuff.
But it's called a community.
I've saw that you had Tom,
Tom Jump on your stuff.
And that's how he makes a living
is doing live streams.
I met him at the Atheist convention,
the American Atheist convention down in Georgia.
Atlanta, Georgia,
back in March, April,
March, April this year.
So he's a really nice guy.
He's cool.
Yeah.
Yeah, he's cool, cool dude.
We had like a good discussion on morals
and we both,
like we disagree with each other.
He's way more educated than I am,
but it was,
it was an interesting conversation.
But back on your journey.
No, no, I took us off.
I jump all over the place as well.
My videos.
So becoming an atheist.
So, so, so we,
I know that you mentioned like earlier that
well on another stream that you were christened growing up.
So, yeah.
So do you ever have a belief in God
or is it
or do you never really have a belief?
I never really,
I mean, we were taught about it at school,
but I was always like,
that doesn't sound right to me.
There were times
in hardship that I would
and say hardship
what's a hardship when you're 12 years old?
Yeah, I know anyway.
I'm going to get that football one day.
I don't know.
But so I would,
I have in the past
clasped my hands together
and said things out loud,
but to myself
to try and get some kind of answers.
Was I praying to a God?
I don't know.
I kind of believed in
more of a the afterlife
and spirits and whatnot.
So maybe I was like appealing to some ghosts.
When my grand passed away,
I spoke to her a lot,
but when I was by myself
to try and get some kind of answers.
Never heard anything.
So I don't think
I ever really believed in a God
as such,
but I believe that there was something there,
but I think it was more down the spirit route.
Yeah.
Sorry.
Yeah.
Is there,
sorry,
Dr. Josh has jumped in here.
I haven't heard this,
but we know,
I know it's going to be.
He's so handsome as well.
I met him.
I know.
I have to be honest with you
at Deep Drinks podcast.
Neither of your ideas could be taken seriously.
You can't ground your ultimate instantiation
of the necessary preconditions
providing file for logic.
He jumps in every stream
and says that same thing
almost every time.
It's amazing.
Well,
do you know what?
It's my wife's birthday's coming up
and I promised her that I'd buy Dr. Josh's book.
But after that,
it's not happening.
Oh, wow.
There you go.
How do you feel now, Josh?
You should get Dr. Josh's sign up
and write something sassy.
Yeah, that's true.
He told me I was a bitch, so it was great.
That sounds legitimate.
Okay.
I was like, yes.
And Megan signed it as well
and said,
you're not bad for a Kiwi,
which is insulting.
I know.
The most insulting thing I've ever heard
because I'm not a Kiwi.
No.
I thought she actually made a mistake,
but she's like, I know.
But she was just doing this,
like, 80 chest troll thing.
It was amazing.
Do you know why I'm called a Kiwi?
Oh, my condolences.
I know.
That's exactly what happens
every time I tell someone from Australia.
From Australia that I'm there.
New Zealand is Australia's Canada.
Yeah, right.
It's got all the beautiful mountains
and it's like, you know,
they talk a little funny.
Yeah, right.
Fashion chapters.
Yeah, exactly.
Cosmic Kyle.
Cosmic Kyle's here.
Cosmic Kyle's here.
It's great to see everybody
waking up in America.
Yeah, right.
But I mean, it's nine o'clock eastern now,
so come on.
Where have you been?
Get up, peeps.
Notice how the atheists dodged
by obviously getting the
prevaricating on my clear
and certain spec question.
Don't use words like that
with a big dum-dum.
Sorry.
I can't even pronounce them.
There you go.
So I want to start a segment
called Why the Paranormal is Bullshit.
Okay.
Why the Paranormal is BS.
And I want you to tell me why.
Like, let's say...
Okay.
Yeah, why is the Paranormal BS?
Or did you...
Okay, let's start with this.
Did you find...
Have you...
I'm sure there is,
but have you found any stories
that you can't explain?
I haven't.
People have stories
that they can't explain.
So now I live in America
and I live in Bible Belt America.
But here,
they also really believe in ghosts,
which is bizarre to me because
from what I understand in the Bible,
that's all.
And I don't understand the Bible
because I was never religious,
so I don't really understand
what it says in there.
But my wife does
and she says things to me
and I'm like,
oh, that's really interesting.
And then I forget because of my brain.
But so I like ghosts and stuff.
That's not a good thing, really,
in the Bible, right?
That's...
Well, it's not...
Like, it has...
It has like things in the Bible
where it's like,
it says like, you know,
it's in sublimination to talk to the dead
or try to talk to the dead.
Okay, sure.
But it's like,
so some Christians go,
well, so there must be a way
to talk to the dead.
Okay.
Saying that, yeah.
But I don't know,
the ghost thing doesn't make any sense
in the whole cosmology
of Christianity to me.
Exactly.
And so like,
people getting excited
that there are ghosts in a building
when they're also
very devoutly religious.
It kind of...
It doesn't quite sit right with me.
But anyway,
I work in a theatre part-time
in the town that I'm in
and it's apparently haunted.
I say apparently
because I've never witnessed anything.
And I...
Let's just go back a little bit.
I used to be absolutely terrified of the dark
because I believed that there were people
in the dark
waiting to jump out at me.
Time only is just in the corner watching you
and watching himself.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Well, yeah,
probably is touch and sound.
Not made up words.
So I hear stories all the time
about this theatre
and how there's a lady called Loretta
who walks around.
There was one guy
and he said,
I was in the theatre by myself
and I was under the stage.
We have the green room under the stage.
And he said,
and I could hear someone walking across the stage
and I went upstairs.
No one there.
The doors are locked.
There's no one there.
And I go back down
and I hear it again.
Tap, tap, tap, tap, tap.
Go back up
and I start shouting at whoever's there
to stop because it's getting on my nerves.
And he said,
and I...
It happened three times.
I went up there.
There's nobody in the theatre.
How do you explain that?
I mean, it is a very old building
and wood does warp under certain temperatures
and it does creak
and I've walked up the steps in that theatre
and then about two seconds after
I'm at the top of some steps,
the steps start sounding like
someone's walking up them.
But that's just the wood repositioning itself,
getting back to where it naturally sits.
You can...
You can explain the way things...
Or it's like,
why did you land on ghosts
and not, you know,
teleporting Obama
who actually...
Cyborg who can teleport
and walk around the stages.
Like,
why is one more believable than the other?
Sure.
You can fit in...
Why wasn't it...
Why wasn't it a flea
wearing some Timberland boots,
jumping?
And that's what you heard.
You know,
there's so many possibilities.
Cosman Clio brought up a really good point.
He said,
you know why you couldn't see a ghost?
It is...
If it is by definition...
definition...
Oh my gosh,
definitionally supernatural
because a lot of particles
would have to be able to interact with it
and they only interact with nature
or on a matter, yeah.
Well then,
explain away the person
that walked through my sister's door.
Oh, you can.
It was an hallucination.
What I love is that
when people think of hallucinations,
they go,
oh, you just see something.
But there are so many different types
of hallucination.
It's not all about
seeing something.
You can hear...
Most are audible.
Yeah, audible hallucinations.
There's...
scent hallucinations.
You can smell things
and people can sometimes
think they're smelling cigarette smoke
when they're not.
And you know,
isn't it final?
Isn't like smelling like almonds
or something, a sign of like...
Yes.
Yes, stroke or something.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah, so...
I wonder if there's a supernatural component
to that.
Like it's...
Yeah.
Well, the thing we used to always bother me is,
I used to go speak to a pastor
about my mental health issues,
not be like,
I'm having panic attacks every night,
blah, blah, blah.
And they'd always say stuff like,
you know,
I was having bad panic attacks.
Like I was vomiting in a garden most of the time.
Oh, wow.
But it was real bad.
But,
and they would say to me,
well, what are you going through
is probably like 50% physical
and 50% spiritual.
And I'm like,
where's the line?
Like what does that mean?
And I was like,
why can a psychologist fix both?
Yeah.
I don't know anyway.
That's ridiculous.
Oh, wow.
So,
I just,
I like to just sit and listen
when people tell me stories now about
the supernatural.
I'd go, oh, okay.
And then in my brain...
Yeah, so you ask,
you pass your edgelord atheist days.
Oh, yeah.
By far,
I just smile and nod.
Yeah, I go,
oh, really interesting.
Yeah.
Because,
and I understand why people need to believe
things because it makes them feel better.
They don't always admit that that's the reason,
absolutely fine.
As long as it doesn't impact me in any way,
or my family,
or the people that I love,
you believe what you want.
However,
there are some things that do affect me
and my family
with your belief.
So that's,
that's when I start speaking out.
But when it comes to a ghost walking
across a stage,
I'm like,
oh, okay.
That sounds really,
that is interesting.
I'm still,
I'm still not a believer.
What was it going through?
Yeah, right.
Where was it going?
Oh,
it forgot a screwdriver on the other side of the stage
that it couldn't pick up.
So it went back again and went,
oh no,
maybe I can pick it up this time
and walks back over three times.
I don't know.
Do you guys,
I doubt it was ever broadcast anywhere
we've ever lived,
but have you ever seen round the twist?
Yeah,
round the twist.
Yeah,
I used to watch love that as a kid.
Yeah, that's great.
It's actually,
we actually went to a friend of mine
and I was driving down near Melbourne and we were like,
oh,
there's the,
there's the lighthouse.
And we went in and we saw like,
you know,
we went up right at the top and stuff was really cool.
Right.
But,
yeah,
I love that show.
I grew up on that.
I did want to mention,
so just to keep talking about this stuff,
but there was,
have you heard of,
I'm sure you know of the James Randy Foundation.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
He offers,
is it a million dollars for someone that can prove?
Yeah,
he did in 2015
and he's passed on since then,
but,
it's just for people who didn't know,
James Randy was a skeptic
and a magician.
He started as a magician
and then he started noticing that people believed
the stuff he was doing was supernatural.
So he started,
like he,
I think he did some stuff where he faked,
he faked like a paranormal person
and they like did a tour
and all this stuff
and everyone believed it
and then they showed on live TV,
hey, this was all fake.
I'm not really a medium.
So,
but he had this foundation
or this challenge called
the one million dollar paranormal challenge
and it was offered by the
James Randy Education Foundation
to pay one million US dollars
to anyone who could demonstrate
supernatural or paranormal abilities
under a greed upon scientific testing criteria.
So that's a big point.
It wasn't just like James Randy saying,
like this is that you got to,
you know,
you've got to levitate above my head or something.
Like he had,
like they both had to agree on the test
and they,
and many did a version of the challenge
was issued in 1964.
Over a thousand people applied to take it,
but none were successful.
The challenge was terminated in 2015.
You can watch videos,
you can see the test being performed.
But remember both James Randy
and the person who said they could talk to the dead
or they could turn pages in a book
or turn pages in a book, anything.
They both agreed on the testing conditions
and every time,
every single time they failed.
To me, that was mind blowing.
And I wonder if you have any thoughts on that.
Like if I was to,
if you were to go back into your old state of mind,
what would you say to like kind of counteract that
as someone who believed in media and stuff?
I mean, there is no way you can prove it.
When you're a believer that you get to speak to dead people,
it is all up here and there's nothing that you can prove.
There's no way to demonstrate that.
There's no way to win a million dollars
by saying I can speak to dead people
unless you got it absolutely dead on the money
if you're speaking to someone and they get relayed information.
But I don't understand,
I don't see how anybody could prove that.
What would you say though if someone said,
well, the supernatural and paranormal has been tested?
Oh, I see.
Yeah, what would you say to that person who says
it's been tested and they can't prove it?
What would be the, how does it mean?
Oh, I see.
Sorry, I see.
Yeah, from the other side.
I mean, you just have to go,
well, some people have the gift and some people don't.
That would be the mentality.
Yeah, I mean, there's not.
They often are some of the biggest people ever
and they said stuff like,
oh, I'll get back to you and never did.
Yeah, right.
There's just no, there's nothing you could say to it.
There's no way that if someone said,
oh, well, they've tested the paranormal,
you believe you can talk to their people,
but they've tested that and there's no,
there's no proof that it's real.
You'd be like, well,
you just kind of got to believe that you can.
There is no way to prove it.
So do you think that the people up at these top levels,
do you think they believe they're doing,
what they're doing is actually real?
Yeah, now that's a good question
because knowing what I know,
I feel like they are playing the game
and they know darn well
that they aren't really speaking to dead people
and they just, they're fleecing people
for all the money that they can.
It's disgusting.
It's absolutely disgusting.
I believe that I could hear things when I was younger.
I really genuinely believe that I heard people shouting for help.
At one time, I had a message from my grandmother for my mother
and I told her that my gran had come to me and told me this
and I genuinely believed that that happened at the time,
but I wouldn't have any way to demonstrate it.
The only reason my mother accepted it
was because she was in the mindset that it was real.
So going to someone who said this isn't real,
I mean, I don't know how you convinced them
other than saying,
there's only a problem when they speak back,
sometimes they do.
I don't know how you just,
at the time I would have just said,
well, you're just not open to it
and you don't believe enough.
What a stupid thing to say.
There's no way you can demonstrate any of this
and it really annoys me that people do believe it.
I mean, good on them if it makes you feel happy,
but it's a stupid thing to believe in.
There must be some form.
You see, I don't know if I think they're all scammers.
I think some of them, they must believe their own.
Genuinely believe.
Because I just can't, to me it's more,
to me it's having someone who believes
their own bullshit and whatever.
And they make cognitive dissonance,
they just push it away and they just move on.
And they don't know how to understand logical
four presses or anything and they just go
off gut feeling and stuff and they just ignore
the stuff that doesn't fit and except things that do.
I think that's easier to explain than people being
that evil that they would take,
or that horrible that they would like scam people
for all they've got, like, yeah, I don't know.
Unless someone's like said to themselves,
like, well, this is just entertainment
and I'm just providing entertainment.
Maybe that's like something that they think.
Yeah, there's got to be some way of explaining it
away and making it okay.
Well, there was, I did, on Truth Wanted
a few weeks ago, there was a guy who had
a ghost hunting app and he called in to say
that he admitted that it was all made up.
It's a random word generator,
but he makes a killing from it because people pay
to have this random word generator
and treat it as a ghost app.
And he said, I make money from people
who through their stupidity.
That's giving me idea.
I know how to build apps.
I can make a pretty sweet.
We should build one together.
Oh, that'll be hilarious.
And then like there's a little message
like that if they actually like paid attention
and we're the fine print, it's like this is all bullshit.
Yeah, well, and we with Dan and I said to him,
you know, do you say anywhere on the app
that it's for entertainment purposes?
And he said, yep, yep.
It says it's just purely for entertainment purposes,
but people don't, they just skip over that
and pay for it anyway and treat it as though
it does actually work.
I downloaded a few the other week
and just tried them out.
They're hilarious.
There's one that's called, it's got like a tracker
and it says it scans for dead people near you.
So I was like, oh great, let's try that out
and it started scanning and it said 12.9 meters away
and it gave an arrow and I was like, oh, that's outside.
Yeah, that fits.
There's no, there's obviously no ghosts in the house
and it said, so 12.9 meters away.
Remember that.
And it gives like the, what the spirit's feeling.
So my phone, 12.9 meters away
could pick up the emotion of a dead person, hilarious.
And then through that emotion
that the ghost is feeling,
it generates like five random words
that could make a sentence.
It's like, okay, great.
That first go, first go, 12.9 meters away.
Let's try it again.
9.2 meters away in the opposite direction,
still outside, so it's still legit.
But I was like, well, surely,
surely if this thing is going to scan for ghosts nearby,
it's going to pick up the one that's 9.2 meters away
rather than the one that's 12.9 meters away first.
Well, I would've come into...
Maybe, yeah, maybe it was like 15 meters away
when I scanned for the first one.
A big thing that I've noticed
is people who don't understand technology
get like really, like I have family members
who used to get angry at Facebook
because it would say like, good morning.
Today it's 24 degrees and I'm like, oh, how do they know that?
And it's like, it's really simple.
It knows your location because of like,
it's not like, there's not someone looking,
Bill Gates isn't watching you through your camera.
Or, and that's fair enough.
Some people just don't know tech,
but there's another one.
I had a friend of mine who said,
oh, he goes to me,
like I was arguing with him about the Illuminati.
And he goes, oh, you don't think the Illuminati is real?
Explain this.
He's like, type in theilluminatibackwards.com.
And then it goes to the CIA homepage.
And I'm like, dude,
I'm like, this is just a redirect.
This is just a redirect.
And why would the Illuminati do this?
Like, let's put a, let's like just type it in backwards
and it'll bring you to the homepage of this.
Why?
Like it was beyond,
but it was just like he thought that was the same dunk.
And it was like, and it was like, wow.
And so I wonder how much more that happens to people
and myself even.
Have you, sorry, this is just a random aside,
but do you get seriously paranoid
that your current world view is like
as wrong as it was back
when you believed in mediums and stuff like that?
No, because I just don't care.
I'm at that stage.
I don't really don't care if I'm right or wrong.
I just like having the conversations.
Yeah.
I don't think I'm going to go to a heaven or a hell
because I don't believe either of them are real.
I think when I'm dead, I'm dead.
Yeah, I'm fine with that.
I don't really care about anything else now.
Yeah, that's good.
That's a good point.
I think for a long time I was, I was like terrified
because like, you know, I would have,
I would have killed for God.
I would have, you know, I would have done any,
I would have killed, I would have died for God.
Like there's nothing I wouldn't have done.
Like I would have done anything that I felt God
was calling me to do.
And like, you know, I was,
I was so convinced of my beliefs.
Someone held a gun on my head.
I would have easily taken the bullet, right?
Wow.
Okay.
And said, you know, denounced Jesus.
I was like, yep, no way.
Like pull the trigger.
Sure.
But, and now I don't believe it.
So it's like, damn, if I believe that,
like, I mean, people believe in religion,
their religion so much they fly planes
in the buildings, not to the room.
Right.
But like, people believe stuff.
And it's like, damn, like what if,
what I believe now is just so inaccurate.
And then I eventually find out, you know,
Buddha was real or something.
Right, sure.
Well, he was real, but he wasn't.
Well, yeah, yeah, yeah.
But he wasn't a deity.
I mean, if somebody came to me with irrefutable proof
of some kind of God or spirit or something,
I'd accept what they had to say.
I still do my own research into it.
Would I do what that thing said?
It depends on what it's asking for,
like what its background was.
But if it was a Christian God that turned up,
would I worship it?
No, not a chance.
You can demonstrate it's real.
Well, no, I wouldn't follow it
because of the atrocities that it spoke for.
If somebody demonstrated that ghosts were real
and spirit guides and all this was a real thing,
I'd go, ah, okay, happy to admit I was wrong.
But there's nobody that, well, not as far as I'm aware,
there's nobody that goes around killing people
in the name of Sam the Spirit Guide.
You know, maybe there are people who go,
well, a dead person just said,
go and punch the mayor of this town in the face.
Be like, ah, that's stupid.
That sort of thing doesn't happen, I don't think,
with the spiritualist world.
There are peaceful people.
They don't need to fly planes into buildings
or gas millions of people.
Let's just go, oh, when you die,
your spirit lives on.
Great.
Yeah, but there's Nidama said,
you just got to snip your dick.
Yeah, right.
And Mama Granada asked,
because it's spooky season,
what's the most convincing ghost story you have heard?
Oh, that's a good one.
None, because I don't believe any of them.
I mean, I still get,
and this is just like a leftover
from the time that I did believe,
there's every now and then I will have a moment
where the hairs on the back of my neck will stand up
when I think about something.
And so there's supposed to be a woman in black,
there's always a woman in black
who walks past one of the doorways in the theatre.
And I work there, I've got my own key,
I'm quite often one of the last people in the building
turning off all the lights.
And every now and then I will think about this lady
who walks past the doorway,
and my hairs will just go,
ooh, do I still believe it?
No, I know that it can't be explained supernaturally
and there's probably some weird natural explanation
as to why someone believed they saw
a shadow walk past the doorway,
light flickers.
I've got a bulb in one of my bathrooms
that you turn the light off,
and about a minute later it just goes,
you forgot about me, and then that's it.
Yeah, I always say, oh, pulse a glass every time that happens.
Yeah, there you go, there you go.
And it's just a little bad connection in the wiring or something.
It's funny how you can fix supernatural things
with new electrical equipment.
Right, right.
I have the same thing,
when I read the Bible sometimes,
or even the Quran or the Bhagavad Gita,
or the Holy Text,
especially the Bible because I grew up with that,
but I get these warm feelings.
It's presence,
but I just don't attach a truth value to that.
I also feel things when I go to a rock concert,
or I feel things when I...
Or someone sings the perfect note in a show,
and you're like, oh, yeah, there you go, yeah, it is.
Yeah, yeah.
So I want to jump on to the Q&A,
but first before we jumped,
I've got a few questions for you,
you didn't mention something in the pre-chat
about...
We're talking about babies and stuff,
and I was wondering if you could kind of like
touch base on that a little bit
so we could have a bit of a discussion,
because you mentioned it was important to talk about.
Yeah, so we, my wife and I,
have been trying for babies
because we want to bring more atheists into the world,
so we feel like it's only right to procreate.
So I live in America now.
Healthcare here is abominable.
It's disgusting.
There are laws where people don't have rights
over their own bodies when it comes to medical treatment.
So we were trying for a baby,
and we had, we suffered an ectopic pregnancy,
which is...
I say we, I was just observing it.
My wife, poor wife, had to like suffer through all this stuff.
The cells were growing,
they hadn't quite made it to the uterus,
and they were growing in her fallopian tube,
which is dangerous,
because if that thing,
that cell clump grows too big,
the fallopian tube will expand, rupture,
bleeding ensues, and the mother dies.
And in this country,
if you get to a certain stage in your pregnancy,
you're not allowed to have treatment for it,
because it's killing a baby,
and the woman doesn't have any say
over what she gets to do with her body.
So we learned of our ectopic pregnancy
five days,
five weeks, and four days into our pregnancy.
The law in Kentucky,
which is the state that I live in,
is after six weeks,
you're not allowed to get an abortion,
regardless of whether you need to have it medically,
or if it's just a personal choice
that you accidentally got pregnant
and you don't consent to having a fetus growing inside you.
If we were three days later,
we would have had to have found
a whole different state
that would have allowed medical treatment
for my wife's ectopic pregnancy,
which is absolutely disgusting.
Fortunately, we were in just in time
for her to have the rights to her own body,
and the doctor here actually wanted,
she saw it, saw the ectopic pregnancy,
and this was actually three days
after we were told it was just a miscarriage,
by the way,
and she saw the ectopic pregnancy
and said we're going to have to operate.
My wife's never had an operation before,
so she said we're going to have to go in there.
There's a chance that we'll be able
to remove the cells
and not damage your fallopian tube,
but the chances are you will lose the fallopian tube,
which then reduces the chances in the future
of you being able to conceive,
because it's a 25% reduction
in chance of getting pregnant again.
It doesn't really sound like a lot,
but that is a lot.
It definitely is.
A friend of ours actually worked
for this doctor who suggested going in for surgery.
She's an OBGYN.
OBGYN?
I don't know what that means.
No, I don't either, because I'm British
and we don't have that language in the UK.
But she said,
our friend said,
ask these questions.
My wife at the time was like, she's upset,
she can barely talk because she's worried about having to go for an operation.
She's just found out.
We've been sitting there for an hour
and the doctor said you need to go now.
This has to happen now.
Luckily our friend said ask these two questions.
How big is the clump?
Is there any cardiac activity?
Important things.
I just asked the doctor in passing.
She'd gone out into her office
and we were walking out to go and discuss what we were going to do.
I said, how big was it?
She's like, it's less than 20mm.
Was there any cardiac activity?
No, flat no.
We go and sit in the car and discuss what's going on.
I texted our friend and said,
this is the information from the doctor.
He said, you don't need to have an operation.
You're early enough that you can treat it with...
Is it methotrexate or something like that?
MXT, it's a drug that they use for treating cancer apparently.
It stops cells growing.
And so you get two injections into your butt cheeks
and feel like crap for days.
So we went back in.
We jumped over somebody else's appointment that they had
and said, we need to talk to you now.
And we said, we actually want to try this route
because there's a better chance that we don't lose the fallopian tube.
There's a better chance that we can conceive again in the future.
There's still a chance of ectopic pregnancy
but it's a lower chance if we go with this route rather than this route.
And the doctor said, well, I didn't offer that to you initially
because we weren't quite sure if it was too big
or if there was a heartbeat.
We couldn't really tell.
Only like 10 minutes previous she flat out said there was no heartbeat.
We later discovered that she'd said all this
because she wanted to perform the operation
because in this country you get more money for performing an operation
rather than treating with drugs.
That is so fucked up.
Yes, yes it is.
Oh my God.
That is like actually disgusting.
Yes, it absolutely is.
Not a full informed consent.
So it was absolutely horrific.
But just first of all, like I said this before
but I'm so sorry that you guys had to go through that
actually you're a lovely wife who I'm sure it's been horrible for
but just to think that you guys are going through this
like tremendously painful emotional experience
and then you have to like argue with doctors
you have to possibly travel to another state
if it becomes illegal in the United States
you have to travel countries, it only affects the poor more than anyone
people who can't travel.
She could have died if we didn't get it treated
she would have died.
There's nothing about that that is pro-life.
Nothing.
It's just disgusting.
I'm sure you're from the UK
that have a different medical system
and from Australia.
It never cost me anything to do anything really.
Actually no, I do go to a doctor that does.
It costs me like the equivalent of like 50 US dollars out of pocket
and then I get money back straight away
but I get like 40 bucks back or something
or 40 US dollars back.
But that's because I go to a special
there's other doctors I could have go to
but I just go to the one closest to me.
But it's just bizarre to me that
the United States like handles things this way.
You experience it more than anything living there.
I had a friend who recently moved to Alabama
and they said it cost money to get an ambulance.
Yeah, it does.
What?
If you can get to a hospital yourself
you're much better off doing that.
It costs 10,000 dollars to have a baby in this country
in this state, sorry.
I think that varies state to state
but when we get pregnant
or if we get pregnant and we have a child
it's going to cost us about 10,000 dollars
to have that child in medical fees.
Just to have a baby.
That's just so rough.
It's very rough.
We were complaining because my wife and I
have just gone through IVF as I mentioned before.
Which is expensive in itself, right?
That is, yeah.
We had to get private health insurance
which gives you extra benefits.
Like surgeries or whatever.
Or dental, things like that.
And also has IVF stuff.
But you have to be on it for like a year on it.
And that was like 43 bucks a week.
So that's equivalent of 25 dollars US.
And then, no, no, a week a month.
Or no, might have been a week, but it was a lot.
And then it was 9 grand when we got to 9,000.
Wow!
6,500 and we were complaining about that.
And that's with IVF.
But if you don't need IVF
you're about to have a baby.
I mean, I think it costs you...
I don't kind of imagine it costs anything.
But you go to the birth classes at the hospital
and tell you everything to do.
You get your own room, your own spa bath,
your own shower with your own bed.
Big room. You can turn the lights down.
You can put your music on.
You can bring fairy lights I've heard.
Make the place really cool.
You can tell the midwives like,
hey, we don't want to see you.
Everyone's just there to assist you
in your time to give birth.
And it's free, all free.
It's just crazy to me that
even federal countries would have to go through
the system that you guys would just have to go through.
And there are so many people in this country.
Is it 300 million or something?
Is that right?
If each person, if each of those people paid...
And I'm trying to work out what it was in the UK.
I think it was like 75 pounds a quarter
was what you paid for healthcare
in national insurance.
I don't know how you do it over there.
But so 75 pounds is, what, 100 dollars?
Actually, then it was.
Now it's more like 75 dollars
because it's almost one for one.
But 75 dollars four times a year.
Yeah, four times a year.
What's that? 300 dollars a year.
If everybody paid in this country
$300 a year into a healthcare system.
That's a shit ton of money
that they could be using to pay
for everyone to have free healthcare.
That's not a lot of money.
Then you don't have doctors who get paid extra money
for doing surgeries.
Yes, exactly.
You just have people who turn up,
do their job, go home, get paid.
And I don't understand
why they haven't implemented that kind of system.
Is it fairly similar in Australia?
I don't know where...
I don't know where...
I have no idea where the money comes from.
We pay taxes and it comes out.
But you don't pay any tax at all
if you're under a certain amount of money
and then it goes up.
But you're helping the government.
Yeah, exactly.
Australia has problems.
It's not amazing in everything.
But yeah, it just seems strange to me
that most of the world is...
Well, I don't think it's strange.
It's either the Illuminati...
No.
Search the Illuminati backwards.
It'll take you to the CIA.
Yeah.
No, it's probably got to do with more
just that how it was originally set up
and the people who got the funds
to both back political pundits.
Right.
They put the fund...
They got so much money,
the big pharma money,
so they just...
They probably just keep the motion running.
It's the same with the NRA, I imagine.
The NRA has so much money behind it.
They can influence politicians
and keep little kids being murdered in schools.
So it's just...
Yeah.
Anyway, this has gotten real dark.
But it's important to talk about.
It is important to talk about.
And I hope one day
the United States comes to their senses
and it gets better.
I think they will at some point.
And we're moving further and further away from...
We're not.
It's taking a long time.
But they are moving away from
religious belief here, more and more.
And it's only a matter of time before
non-religious people are in power.
And then that will open things up a lot.
And it will be fast at that point.
But it's important to vote in those
that aren't affiliated with any...
Yeah.
I think genetically modified skeptic
did a video where I think it was 2060
is when Christianity would be a minority
on the current trends.
Oh, wow.
Which is big because Christianity is hot
really high at the moment.
I think.
But you have to go watch the video.
But I have some questions for you.
And the first question is a serious, serious question.
Favorite musicals?
Oh, now listen.
I'm a musical performer.
So I've been in a ton of musicals.
Picking a favorite.
I love Jekyll and Hyde the musical.
I performed as Jekyll and Hyde in the musical.
Oh, okay.
That's probably one of my favorites.
Do you know Priscilla, Queen of the Desert?
No.
No?
It's actually set in Australia, David.
So probably did your research.
You see, I never like musicals at all.
My wife recently got me into them.
And I'm starting to like them.
I've seen Wicked a few times.
I've seen The Book of Mormon.
I've seen...
I love that.
That's probably up there with one of my favorites.
Mola Rouge is my favorite.
Mola Rouge is good.
I've seen Avenue Q twice.
That's a funny one.
It's like Sesame Street, but for adults.
It's hilarious.
So Priscilla, Queen of the Desert
is about three Australian drag queens
who just do a tour of Australia to go and visit
the lead drag queen's son,
who was like a surprise.
I actually experimented in college
and I've got a kid.
So we're going to go and see the kid.
I played that drag queen.
Oh wow, that's awesome.
I was the lead drag queen in that show.
Love that show.
Sunset Boulevard.
I've played Joe Gillis in that.
I love that show.
Danny in Greece.
Hello.
Oklahoma.
Curly.
I've done that too.
Seymour in Little Shope of Horrors.
Yeah, I've done loads.
You see, I'm kind of like nodding and smiling.
I only just know some of these names.
My wife's going to hit me because she'll be like,
oh my God, she'll be flown away.
Yeah.
I'm actually...
I'm directing Little Shope of Horrors
early next year in my life now.
Wow.
I've been in the show twice as Seymour both times.
So yeah, I'm directing the show,
which I can't wait for.
How exciting.
Wow, that's cool.
That was a long answer for such a short question.
Okay, well, let me give you some musicals
and you just tell me what they are out of 100, right?
100 is best.
Wicked.
Now,
if you'd said Adina Menzel as
Alphaba,
95.
And I saw Adina in the show in the West End in London.
I've since seen the show four more times.
And each time it got worse.
So now, like the last time I saw it, maybe like 70.
Okay.
Do you know who Gemma Ricks is?
No.
Oh, okay.
She's like my wife's favourite.
I don't.
Right.
Yeah.
Lucy Jurek.
Do you know who that is?
I don't know Lucy Jurek.
No, okay.
Must be Australian.
Both, huge.
Legally Blonde.
Oh, sure.
Legally Blonde.
Yeah.
What would you put that?
I like Legally Blonde.
Let's say 80.
Okay.
Okay.
Book of Mormon.
100.
Okay.
I love Book of Mormon.
And I know every single word
to every single song in Book of Mormon.
I love it.
Jesus hates you this we know.
Yeah, it's so good.
Malin Rouge.
Yes.
If you're talking about the movie.
No.
Movie sucked.
I hated the movie.
Okay.
I'll give it like a 60.
It's not my favourite, but it's okay.
Yeah, I'm sorry.
All right.
Cats.
I saw Nicole Scherzinger as...
I can't remember the lead cat's name,
but I've seen it on the west end.
It's okay.
It's annoying in places 60.
Let's give it a 60.
Okay.
I'm trying to think of any that else that I've seen.
Lion King.
Oh, that's great.
75.
Okay.
I had the biggest panic attack in Lion King.
I was like sitting there.
And I was just like,
oh, you're having a good time.
And as soon as the music started,
for some reason, I was like panicking.
And on the outside, I'm just like this.
But on the inside, I'm like,
oh, my God.
Oh, my God.
And then like, you know,
because I think I knew the story so well
that I was like panicking for the stage.
The audience, I was like,
oh, no, what if Simba falls off the thing?
Like, oh, no, this elephant is walking around.
Did you sit in the stalls for that one?
Because you get all the experience of the animals passing through the auditory.
I could see them, but I wasn't next to them.
Oh, sure.
Sure.
But yeah, it was good.
It was me having to leave.
And then the lady, like I left, came back.
But yeah, and ladies like,
you can go to the ladies room if you want,
the pregnancy room.
And I was like, no, no, it's fine.
But anyway, yeah, it was bad.
I had bad anxiety, like I said.
Okay.
So I hope that satisfies my wife's questions.
But someone asked normalizing atheism
and thanks for checking out the stream.
It's great to see you.
Oh, that's all right there.
Mike, question for Johnny's.
Where in Wales are you from?
Let me see what my answer is in rap.
That sounds like a pasta Mike thing to say.
Do you know Mike?
Pasta Mike?
Yeah.
Do you know him, right?
Hang on, let me just look.
Because there's a few pastors online.
As in P-A-S-T-A, pasta.
Pasta Mike.
Anyway, where in Wales am I from?
I'm from the capital of Wales, England.
Because England owns Wales.
And I can't rap.
I had a rapping injury in my mid-twenties
and my doctor said,
if you rap again, you'll explode.
So I can't.
I had the same thing.
And I just seen Nuri.
I just went on to Twitter to see
Pastor Mike Seville's following.
I couldn't find the account,
but I'm sure I've recognised the name.
He owns Normalising Atheism on Facebook.
Yeah, I know Normalising Atheism.
Nearly 70,000, yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
He's great.
That's why I say great to see.
Yeah.
Yeah.
But Nuri Akhan,
I don't know if you're here in Nuri,
but she just shared the stream,
which she is a legend.
And Nuri Akhan is wholly humanist
who, with the episode where she left Islam.
Oh, cool!
Yeah, she can't go to nine countries in the world.
She'll be put to death for being an apostate.
Yeah, so it's real-time crazy stuff.
That's crazy.
But anyway,
so this is a question I ask everyone,
and in your case,
it'll be regarding the paranormal.
What, if anything, would change your mind?
If a ghost or spirit appeared to me,
allowed itself to be filmed,
I could take video of it
and then pass that video to people to verify.
But also, the spirit would have to come with me
and go, yes, that's me to the people verifying it.
Okay, that's good.
That's a very succinct answer.
Well, I think that's the only way, right?
And this is a second-last question.
What is the most plausibly true religion
that you don't believe in?
Buddhism.
A lot of people say Buddhism.
I think I'd say Buddhism as well.
Yeah, because there's no real anger in that religion.
Yeah, they have a fun hell too.
So there's a sect of Buddhism that believes in hell
and you go that you burn off your karmite.
I'm like, okay, well, at least there's an end goal.
It's not just like...
You burn off your karmite and then you come back.
And the last question,
and then we'll wrap this up,
is if you could choose an afterlife
and it would immediately become true,
which afterlife would you choose?
I mean, it would be the afterlife jungle
where Lisa, the rainbow giraffe,
leaf be upon her to overseas everything
and teaches you how to surf on a surf machine.
Wait, so what is that?
Is that a real thing or do you just make that up?
I mean, it's real for me.
So I've got my own deity
who appears on my channel every now and then.
Actually, every video.
I give some new law to Lisa, the rainbow giraffe,
who is like, you can take any religious belief
and change God to Lisa, the rainbow giraffe,
leaf be upon her.
And it still works.
That's pointing out how ludicrous all this stuff is
by just changing the name.
So in a video a long time ago,
I said that the only afterlife that matters
is the one that Lisa, the rainbow giraffe oversees
and it's the afterlife jungle.
Because she's a giraffe.
So it's going to be a jungle.
So there you go.
That's so good.
That's awesome.
I love that.
So the leaf be upon her as well.
I was doing something on a Muslim apologist.
Every time he said the word Mohammed,
he said peace be upon him.
And I was like, there's something here.
So I was like, that's it.
I'm saying leaf be upon her every time I say
Lisa, the rainbow giraffe from now on, leaf be upon her.
So that's so good.
That's so good.
So everyone.
So normalizing atheism said,
listen to you guys or drink for morning coffee.
Kept me entertained.
Love.
John great podcast.
David, thank you so much.
And thank you for everyone who's subscribing.
Just just a reminder that when we do get to
a thousand subscribers, we're doing a charity stream.
And tomorrow night or same time tomorrow,
wherever you are in the world,
I'll be interviewing Anathesia.
Oh my gosh, I've forgotten her name.
Anathesia who is a Ukrainian volunteer
who's living there and we're going to be talking to her.
Let's just literally like hiding right now.
And I'll be talking to her.
But she said no.
We're in Ukraine.
We drink alcohol.
So she's actually got alcohol.
So I'm like, wow.
But yeah.
So tomorrow that's going to be a live stream.
That'll be really good.
And we'll be talking about it and raising money
for her and her volunteer work.
But besides that, make sure you go over
to the skeptic links in the description.
And make sure you subscribe over there
because John is putting out some just amazing content.
You have to go check it out.
I'm really excited for this week's one as well.
Oh, any sneak peeks?
So someone, someone very well known
in the religious community is talking about rocks
and how we evolved from them.
I'm having fun with this one.
I need to ask you before we go,
I've got one last question.
You said on your arm,
you need to give me the law behind this.
So on your channel, you said Kent Hoven
couldn't read this description.
What's that about?
So I have finally been whacked on Whacken Atheist.
You got whacked off by Kent Hoven?
I got whacked off by Kent Hoven.
Oh, I'm so jealous.
Part of the video was him reading my description.
And he just butches it.
He can't do it at all.
It's hilarious.
But I was like, well, Kent Hoven was here.
So that's all that is.
There's nothing I love more than,
than, you know, laughing at Kent Hoven.
So I was doing a video
on when he whacked Forest Valkyrie.
So I did a reaction video to that.
And then Kent did a reaction video
to me doing a reaction video to him
doing a reaction video to Forest Valkyrie.
It was hilarious.
How long will this go on?
Oh, it's amazing.
I loved the thing he did with Arun Ra
where he couldn't even understand like the font.
Like he was just, it's amazing.
Like he, it's amazing.
But thank you so much, John.
The Skeptics channel, it's amazing.
And thank you so much for coming on.
It's been awesome.
I noticed you didn't touch your Peroni.
So you're going to have to.
Yeah, it's fast you were doing that,
but I've got the lid on.
It's too early.
I've drunk two, so that's.
Well done.
You drank mine for me.
Yeah, I did yours for you.
But thank you so much for coming on.
And make sure you go check out your channel,
obviously.
And thanks everyone for watching.
And I'll see everyone later.
Bye.
