I guess today is Brandon from MindShift.
His content is amazing and he has this opening line in his about section that really like
I think I think when I read it, I was like, I need to get this man on my podcast.
So he said, my goal is to be open enough to follow the truth,
no matter where it leads and to help others do so.
Also do that.
Also is with my great pleasure that I introduce Brandon from MindShift.
Welcome to the drinks podcast.
What's up, David?
Man, thanks for having me here.
Man, I, I just like I said, just then I really loved that, that's kind of mantra
when I, when I was deconstructing my faith, I wrote this document called
the objective truth of origin.
So I was trying to get to the bottom of, of where we came from.
And, you know, like I was deconstructing young with creationism.
And at the start of it, I said, I like wrote this like mission statement.
And the mission statement was essentially along those lines.
Like truth is the most important thing.
We must follow the evidence where it leads, not try and get the evidence to fit
out, already decide conclusion.
And when I read that and when I enjoyed some of your content, I was like,
damn, this, this man, I just want to have a conversation with this man.
And so that's when I reached out.
Very cool.
Very nice.
Yeah, I'm excited.
We were talking a little bit before and it's nice just to find someone that's
like minded and have a conversation that's not, not so much pressure.
We can just hang out and talk religion and all that good stuff.
Well, so we're drinking rye whiskey today, right?
And I've got my whiskey that I went and bought is called the gospel.
So it's a good, it's a good Australian Salera rye.
What have you, what is your rye?
Yeah, that's great.
I don't have any good puns.
This is a high West.
I figure that's good me being an American with you.
A high West is out of Park City, Utah, which is, which is also ironic because
it's like the driest state in the country, but they make an amazing.
This is the double rye.
They have one called rendezvous.
If you ever get a chance to get your hands on, it's my favorite, but it's
pretty expensive.
So, um, cheers.
Cheers.
Well, I've got to pull one.
I don't know what I'm doing here, but, um, man, it's, uh, whiskey is like
one of my favorite.
It's probably my favorite drink, I think, um, so first question to get us rolling
is, um, everyone knows that us atheists, uh, we, we stop following God because
we love to sin.
So my first question is, what's your favorite sin?
Oh man.
What a funny, interesting little question.
Yeah.
Um, wow, that's a good question.
It's, it's, it's, it's, it's just so ironic.
What is my favorite sin?
Why don't you tell me yours so that I can, uh, see where the pace is out here scoffing.
I love to scoff, um, you know, to scoff at, uh, at the ideas that are in the Bible.
Um, yeah, that's probably my favorite sin.
I'll do similar.
I would have to say blasphemy, which we know is the victimless sin, but, uh,
that's something that obviously has become a big part of my life, uh, the
last few months here.
So is it, is it blasphemy?
Like what is some, oh, this blasphemy against the Holy spirit, right?
And then it's like, just blast, what is blasphemy just in general?
I think blasphemy in general is, uh, speaking against God, right?
I, it's, you know, I remember the first time I ever heard the term, uh, I was in
sixth grade and I had, I had done something terrible.
I watched an episode of the Simpsons and we were talking about it at my Christian
school.
Do you know the Simpsons?
Oh, yeah, everyone knows the Simpsons, right?
Okay.
Um, and my history teacher, uh, again, at a Christian school was like, you
shouldn't watch that.
It's sacrilegious and blasphemous.
I never heard either of those terms.
And so that's always been like the definition in the back of my head was,
you know, poking fun at religion or making light of God.
Um, obviously now in our understanding that there is no God, there is no blasphemy.
And I think that's why it's such a fun little thing.
But it's, uh, I would be, that would be the one.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I think, uh, in Australia, like the Simpsons was big in Australia, but
especially in like my demographic, like kind of like poor, uh, which is like
Simpsons at like six o'clock every night.
That was like our thing.
Like I grew up with the Simpsons.
Um, and, uh, yeah.
So, so you've told your deconstruction before, uh, and, uh, but I was wondering if
we could just go through, uh, some of like the, I guess the hits of your
deconstruction, but I get the vibe that, uh, a lot of, uh, I mean, there's,
there's a hundred ways you can tell your deconstruction, but I get the vibe for
you that, that you're, you're, you're quite, um, inquisitive into what you
believe and why, and you, and you kind of found issues with the Bible, issues
with the concept of God that kind of facilitated part of your deconstruction.
I was wondering if we could just like kind of touch on what your construct,
deconstruction was like through the lens of, I guess, some issues that you were
funding.
Yeah.
Um, you know, I've, I've said before, and I want to try to always reveal a
little bit of something different or more, uh, as we go through this kind of
stuff, but really there's two levels.
There was breaking away from fundamentalist Christianity, and then there was
breaking away from Christianity in general, or even a God concept in general.
Those are two very different things.
Uh, so as a kid, you know, I like to think that I was of the same kind of
analytical mind.
Uh, I saw a lot of issues.
I was just easily, you know, you're a kid and, and some adult
figure, some authority figure says, that's not an issue.
And here's why.
And they give any answer.
And all you want is there to be an answer when you're young and you're supposed
to believe in this thing.
So, you know, so much that I look back on now about issues I had as a very
early kid, all the way up through, you know, high school, I see that it was just
quashed by other believers and the institutions that are there to reinforce
the indoctrination, you know, I went to Christian schools.
I was involved in Christian programs, uh, even certain aspects of my sports
teams where Christian Christian coaches, all kinds of influence, and it's
there to hold you in.
And so, yeah, that analytical mind, I think was always there.
It just took 30 years before I was brave enough or smart enough, or I don't
know exactly what the tipping point was.
Uh, well, I do know the tipping point.
It was having children.
Um, and, and I just remember having a real moment of pause that was like, I've
accepted a lot of apologist answers.
I've accepted a lot of excuses.
What I feel comfortable though, explaining these excuses, being the
person that's now giving them to my kids as they come up, because I saw
really early on, I remember I was like sitting with my son, he was two, we
were reading and he, you know, he's two.
And it was like the littlest kids book ever.
And he asked a really good question.
And I was like, that's such a good question.
I love you, man.
Like what a smart mind you have.
And then I thought, shit, like I'm going to be responsible for answering all
of this stuff for the rest of time.
And it was the catalyst I needed that pushed me over the edge to say, okay,
let's, let's really like uncover all of those things for my childhood and go
through them one by one.
And that initial deconstruction process was never to become an atheist.
It was never to like, Oh yeah, like I'm, I'm definitely, there is no answer
for the problem of evil.
Oh, there is no answer for slavery.
There's, there's just got to be a better one than the excuses I've gotten
from these not very smart Christians in my life.
Right.
And so it was, it was really to know God better that funny enough, of course,
leads to more Bible reading, which as you and I both know, can kind of be the
nail in the coffin for so many of us.
So we can get into some specific questions, but that's like the general tone of,
of how it went.
And there's so many ebbs and flows and so many times of like, man, my faith is
great.
Nothing's going to get in the way.
There's mysteries, all the excuses about, you know, God being higher than myself.
And then there were other times of like, how am I ever going to explain this or
excuse this?
Like, this is, this is insane.
Why does no one else have a problem with this?
And you feel so isolated when you're in there, you know?
I'm laughing because it's just so, it's so symbolic of, of my experience as well.
Like it's so, it's similar.
Like, I think that for me, I first saw the Ken Ham Bill Nye debate and I was
like, let's, let's get to the bottom of this young earth creationist thing.
You know, and I remember thinking to myself, well, hang on, I can't like
investigate the evidence and be like, how does this all point to God?
I have to like, I have to, I have to like come into this, this evidence and
just see where this one little piece of evidence like points to, right?
I know that debate you're talking about.
How old were you during this?
I'm curious.
It would have been, oh, I would, it was about 2000s.
I think it was about 2016 when I watched it or 2015, 2016, and it was, that was
out in 2014.
So I'm 34 now.
So it's under the mass.
Yeah.
No, I'm with you.
I just, I was just roughly curious, you know, at what's, how long you held on to
that it's, it's insane looking back.
And I know that so many even Christians today, they will immediately not take
what we have to say that seriously because of our fundamentalist background.
Like, oh, you were in that crazy Christian cult.
Like you were in the wrong side.
You were in the weird side.
Like obviously the earth isn't, you know, that young and things of this nature.
And it's embarrassing to, to say how, you know, 2016, man, you were well into your
twenties, uh, it's embarrassing to be like, oh yeah, we, we really believe this,
but we had no reason not to and every reason to believe it from our, our
background and our upbringing and our, again, our influences.
So I didn't mean to cut you off.
I was just curious.
Um, no, that, that's cut me off as much as you like.
And I'll probably do the same, especially as the whiskey takes over.
I've become less of a gracious host, but, um, but less of a good, sorry.
So what I would have pointed back to, but what I would have pointed to back then
is I would have said, if someone like questioned me, like, how do you explain,
explain this, how do you explain this, how to explain this?
I would have just pushed back to my experiences.
Like, I don't know, but I know that I've had these experiences with God.
I know that he's answered my prayers.
I know that I've spoken in tongues.
I know that I've laid hands on people.
And that's what the Bible says will happen to those who are true followers.
And so I'd point back and say, okay, so therefore the Bible has, like,
therefore the Bible is true.
Therefore I'll put my faith in the Bible.
So I'd always point back to experience.
I can never deny the experiences that I had.
I'm curious, what was your, uh, I guess, impetus, like what did you have
experiences that you would point back to that would like hold the foundation
of, of everything?
Was it just how you were brought up?
Yeah, it was probably a triple threat.
It was experience.
It was biblical knowledge.
Um, I was really involved in Bible study and even as a kid, like Bible quiz
for, you know, like eight years of my life.
Like I took that as seriously as those crazy parents that take, you know,
their kids to basketball camp at age four, you know, to prepare them for
the NBA, like it was duty.
I mean, hours of study a day from the very beginning.
And so it's interesting because that should have been so many red flags
because I read all the verses that now drive me insane that I ever accepted,
but I had what I considered to be the right context and a good understanding
of, of how to make excuses for them.
So falling back to like, no, other people don't understand the Bible as well
as I do, which is stupid.
And then falling back to personal experience.
Um, and I said triple threat because there was a third one there that was,
um, probably just indoctrination, right?
Just fear of losing the group and of the safety and the security and the existential
dread questions and everything like that.
So we could point to any of those from an experience level.
It's interesting.
I remember specifically having a conversation.
I think I was 25.
I had a friend that I made when I was 17.
She was awesome.
We were like so close and we both had the same upbringing.
We went to the same church, even.
And then she D converted, but hers to me sounded crazy.
It wasn't, it wasn't like smart.
Like I didn't respect it.
She did LSD one time and then like real, she took, she solved music at the same
time that she like found out there's no God, right?
So like, I didn't take her seriously, but when she was trying to be like Brandon,
like we've been fooled.
I remember feeling pity for her and specifically saying like, you must have
not had the relationship I have with Jesus, you know, like, and again, looking
back, like it's just horrendous to think about this, but I was so convinced, you
know, more than the other three things I just mentioned of my personal
relationship with Jesus, that when I spoke to him, he heard that, that I
mattered to him, that he knew what was going on with me, that we were talking
on a daily basis.
And so yeah, I have my own experiences of what I consider to be fulfilled
prophecy or healings that I saw, you know, grown up in fundamentalist churches.
You see all kinds of things that reinforce this belief.
But man, probably at the end of the day, my excuse that I fell back on was, okay,
if there's issues with all of this, it doesn't change the fact that I know this
guy, Jesus, as well as I thought I knew like my best friend or my mom.
It was, it was just that foundational.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Ah, wow.
So going back to initially what you said about not wanting to become an atheist
or not, not going into your deconstruction, becoming an atheist.
When I was, when I was looking at my Christian worldview and going, okay, I
need to, need to kind of separate myself from the evidence that I'm looking at.
I'm not going into this as a Christian, as a man, as a Australian, as someone
who lives on the sunshine.
Like I'm not, I'm not looking at this.
I'm trying to look at this as unbiased as possible and just see
where this little thing points.
My expectation was that I would find all the steps back to God.
I would follow the evidence, I didn't use faith.
I would follow the evidence and those steps would all lead back to God.
And then I, and then the purpose of this was then I could then have conversations
with people who didn't believe in God and explain to them what I had discovered.
Not saying I would have all the answers or anything, but be like, okay, well, or
if I, if I found that, or at least I would have an understanding of why they
don't believe in God or why they believe in evolution or something.
And I could at least relate to them on that level.
So I could engage in interest in conversations.
That was the goal.
But for me, I, I started to notice these cracks and these cracks just got bigger
and bigger.
And then, and eventually I'm standing in these canyons of cracks going, you're
like, why isn't anyone told me about these things?
Yeah.
And it's, it was really, it's really hard because I remember even going to Christians
at the time and telling them, like, there's these huge cracks, but I could only
see them if I took off, I guess, my God glasses and decided to look at the evidence
for what it was.
And you could see, you could, you physically see on their face, they'd shut off.
Like you start telling them and they were just like, and they would just shut off.
And then it's like that you couldn't, you actually couldn't get through to them.
It's like, it was like, not to get a little biblical, but it was like when what
Paul had the, the things fall off his eyes, the scales fall off his eyes.
That's what it feels like.
It really feels like that.
And it feels crazy that no one else is noticing these things or wanting to talk
about them, or if they do talk about them, they tell you the most like bizarre,
like weird reasoning that you could ever imagine.
Like it's, I remember talking to someone about Noah's Ark and it was like, and you
know, they were talking to me and they were saying, and I'm saying, wait, so if I'm
trying to work out, like I worked out like 19,000 different species endemic
species are endemic to Australia.
And I'm like, oh, plants, reptiles, like amphibians, animals.
I didn't count birds or, or on fish.
And I'm like 19,000 species.
I was like, so that means the seeds would have had to blow all the way to Australia.
The koalas would have had to crawl away.
Australia surviving on nothing because they eat only a specific eucalyptus
tree, depending on where they are.
And like you can't trans, you can't even transport them a couple of
hundred kilometers away because they won't eat those eucalyptus trees.
They'll decide to die in the tree.
I talked to, to zoologists.
I talked to, to, to people who, who raise Australian wildlife, who were sick
and things like that.
And I was like, this just doesn't make sense.
And the, the, the reasoning of God was, well, you know, we don't know, like,
there was a couple of things like maybe God repopulated the earth after Noah's
flood, and I'm like, well, that would defeat the purpose of the Ark.
All the excuses for that kind of stuff could be replaced with, well, he's
God, he can make a miracle, like he'll just transport the sloths.
And it's like, then why do the Ark?
Like if we're just talking Thanos level, snapping miracles, like let's skip
the middleman, but if you put the middleman in the story, like, don't expect
me not to like deconstruct it.
Yeah, it was very, I think it was harder going from fundamentalism to like
progressive Christianity.
And I don't know if you ever made a middle stop.
You'll have to tell me.
Uh, then it was letting go of like the middle ground of what I consider,
you know, progressive Christianity to, to atheism, because it was so
insulated for so long.
And yeah, it seems so obvious now, like, and again, I can, I can hear
all the Christians who never believed in that crap.
Like you're so foolish, but I, I was like 25 or 26 when I saw that non-stamp
collector video about Noah's Ark and I remember taking notes.
I was like, holy shit.
Like it blew my mind and it's unbelievable how otherwise I was, you
know, we just talked about books before we hopped on pretty well read as a kid.
Like I had finished most of like the Western canon classics by like 21.
And yet I believed in no, a literal Noah's Ark.
And yet I believed in like Jonah actually being in the belly of a whale.
The cognitive dissonance is unbelievable in this religion.
It's really as wild, uh, you, you say non-stamp collector for me, for me,
one of my, my videos for the Noah's Ark was, uh, Aaron Ra's series on, um,
how X disproves the flood.
And I think it was the paleontology one that I just watched over and over again.
I was just like so blown away by the fact that like there's like levels of, of,
of strata in the world that's like, um, life is here, it stops here.
Humans are way up here.
Like we've never even seen the, like humans, the human race, human species
has never seen this, this sect of a whole species or like trilobites or something.
And you're just like, this is, this is wild.
Like the earth is so much older and in more interesting than, yeah, you know,
God wiggling his nose and wishing upon a star.
And then pop, it all came into existence over seven days.
Like it just, and I know Christians will say that, well, obviously Genesis is,
some Christians will say that obviously Genesis is poetic and I'm being stupid.
And we were, we were stupid for believing that Noah's Ark was literal, uh, but,
um, but yeah, I don't know, that's how I was raised.
Yeah, for sure.
And also, you know, I could even get on board and I did get on board.
I got on board for years and I was the Christian then saying that like, oh no,
you need to understand how to do this correctly.
And the allegories and the metaphors and, and the symbolism and the poetry.
And I had a pretty, I had it down pretty packed and, uh, and read a lot of good
books on, you know, assuming that any of this were true, like this is the only way
it can be true.
And that's what happens.
That's like, I've said it before and I get a lot of pushback.
I'd be curious to hear your thought.
I think fundamentalism mostly is like one of the more honest interpretations of
being a Christian, like you're, you're taking things literally that were
originally, most likely in some cases, not all, there's definitely, there's
definitely poetry and symbolism in the Bible, a hundred percent.
Um, but there's also things that are supposed to be taken literally that are
insane, you know, I, I oftentimes make the comparison between the progressive
Christians that say how silly I was for believing in Noah's Ark, but then turn
around and they absolutely believe in the 10 plagues of Egypt and the Red Sea being
split, like they, they believe that literally that's not supposed to be a
metaphor, even within the poetry.
Like this is supposed to be physical things that actually happened, you know,
putting lamb's blood on your door so that an evil spirit passes over you.
Like that's, that's insane.
That's blood magic, Coltary.
And it's no different to me in impossibility level than Noah's Ark.
And yet the kind of snotty Christian says, how silly of you to take some of that
so true, while they have to take a resurrection as pure truth.
You know what I mean?
Like there's enough things in the Bible that do need to be taken literally that
I don't think it's an insane step for a fundamentalist to be like, well, these
people seem to believe it at the time.
And so I did too.
But, um, I don't want to get too hung up on that because again, it is just, it's
such a, well, so, uh, I'm friends with Eric Manning of testify apologetics.
Um, he's been on the show before, uh, and, and, uh, he, he posts stuff that I
disagree with, like on, on like a wild level.
And he disagrees with me as well.
Um, but I appreciate his conversations I have with him.
And he posted something the other day that I was literally too scared to comment
on because I knew that, that I was just going to get a wall back of, of like
sophistry, like of just like excuses and stuff.
So this is the post that he posted on, on Facebook.
Uh, when you find out that there's actually historical evidence for the
Jesus, those Bible scholars lard to me.
And it's like, I really wanted to ask, I really, really, really wanted to ask,
what is the historical evidence for the exodus?
But I know that what I get back is like, I don't know.
Like, do we have, do we have like the, the side of the Red Sea crossing?
Do we have Egyptian records that say millions of Jews were living in, uh,
Egypt, or is it going to be something like, well, there are some, some groups
that were associated with these reliance that were like as far like West as, as,
as Egypt and, you know, and there's some like tales of, uh, of, you know,
traveling great distances and like, is it going to be like the Bible story?
Is it going to be something that's so separate, like different and, you
know, and there's just, it's, it's, uh, it's frustrating.
Yeah, I should ask, I should ask the question.
It gets pretty loosey-goosey.
I think that's the hard thing.
It's like, as soon as you have to make an excuse for something that either has
little evidence, counter evidence, or is just what otherwise we would consider
miraculous, whatever category that fits into, as soon as you try to attribute
evidence or proof to it, you almost have to change the story most of the time.
And then it's like, well, then what are we doing with the Bible?
And then like, oh, you're too hung up.
You're, you're too literal.
You're too textual.
And it's, I, I fight this issue a lot, even with like other atheists who are like,
man, you're just really taking it too literally.
You're too hung up on it.
Like if we don't have the source material and like, I know the Catholic
answers about church tradition and church teaching, but still, and I
understand we haven't always had texts.
Like there was a belief system before a lot of this stuff was put down on
scrolls, even during the exile period.
I, I get all that, but the only reason anyone today prays to Jesus and thinks
that they receive the witness of the Holy Spirit and believes that they can pray
for healing or talk in tongues or do anything, or even more progressive,
like just that Jesus loves them.
The only reason they believe this is because of the Bible.
Without that, you don't just walk out of the woods from Papua New Guinea knowing
the name of Jesus.
It's, it just doesn't happen.
There is no level of general revelation that is at all accurate in that regard.
And so, you know, when people start to throw away, like most parts of the Bible
to develop a story that works since it becomes more clear every year, how, how
much the Bible doesn't work.
It's like, then what religion is this?
Like, why are we still attaching it to Christianity or the Bible?
And it, it becomes an impossible thing to fight.
And that's why I find myself in a lot of my videos, I've got more caveats than
points because it's like, now listen, but if you're someone that believes
like this, this would be the answer for that.
And if your excuse is this, like here's this, and it's so hard to even make a
point because there's so much disagreement from Christians, which is problem
number one.
And if you point that out, there's 13 apologetics coming back at you there.
So I get it, man.
So Niddy's just said, quick, link to the Inspiring Fossi video at Deep Drinks,
I'm guessing on the Exodus.
But, but to your point, Brandon, is something that Inspiring Fossi said is
when he was on last, is he believes in Noah's flood, but it was local flood.
Right.
And it's like, so my, so like, we didn't get into this, but my response would be,
so what was the point?
What was the point of every animal of every, you know, like, what was the point?
Like the, the, the story is of God wiping humanity clean.
Right.
Everyone, the Aboriginals in Australia that have been here for 60,000 years.
Yeah, you guys, I love that point.
You guys have like the oldest going back timeline of, if human development, and
it's, it's amazing when it's like 500 times longer than what the Bible gives
credence to, but continue.
Oh no.
Yeah.
That's, that's essentially the point is like, it just makes no sense to me then
like the story of Noah just makes no sense.
It's like God wiping out a select group of people and some select animals for
some, like it just, it takes all the, the Disney out of the movie.
Do you know what I mean?
It takes all the magic out of it.
It's just, it's no longer interesting.
It's no longer like a moral tale.
It's no longer, it's just, what is this?
It's just nothing.
I think what it points to when people talk about the local flood and they have
got good reason to do so in terms of some of the passages, other than the fact
that like the whole earth and these, these Hebrew words are used that do mean
all encompassing everything.
Like it's pretty hard to get around.
But on that argument, it also shows how little God's reality was.
Like these people really believed their local flood.
If they believed that was a worldwide flood.
Like they were just so, they didn't know about the America's.
They hadn't gone that far, you know, even East.
It's just, I did a video, I'm not trying to promote anything, but I did a video
called Beyond God's Borders.
And it's like my biggest issue is the, the hyper local, hyper specific idea of a
God that only cares about this chosen people group amongst like a few other
evil nations around them.
And that's the whole world.
Like all of the events that are described is that's where it's taken place
because there just wasn't anything else.
You know, you can go as far as Egypt and the Assyrians and the Babylonians.
And up north, you have some hill people and these kinds of things.
But the, the idea that they would have been writing about a worldwide flood that
had anything to do with people in South America and that they would have
understood this to any degree.
Like obviously we know, of course they didn't, and that makes sense.
But when you claim that God did it, he should have.
And so it just, it breaks down.
It just breaks down for so many reasons.
Yeah.
There's this, this is famous image.
It's not going to come up very well, but that little circle there, I'm not going to
even show it, but that little, it's like a little circle on a map.
Here, let me show it again.
A little circle there.
That's like every, every single thing by Yahweh, Jesus, Allah, the Torah,
New Testament, Quran, inside that little circle.
Yeah, that's great.
And you know, you say you won't promote, you know, you don't want to promote
your kind of stuff, but I'll promote it because it's amazing.
People, everyone go subscribe to MindShift.
It is an incredible channel.
And I didn't realize you're putting out multiple videos a week.
I honestly thought these would take you weeks, months to make each one.
They're really good.
Like you must, you just, you've obviously condensed years of books into your mind.
And now they just flow forth like springs, as the Bible would say.
But your content is really good.
It's really easy to listen to, really natural.
You're not, you're not kind of YouTuber-y, does that make sense?
Like you're, go subscribe to MindShift.
The link's in the description.
Yeah, I, you know, I started out and it was like, so I told you before I
hopped on, I had a booktube channel and just, I, one of the books I covered,
I think it was like, is it called The Big Picture by Sean Carroll?
You know, it made, I made a comment while covering that video because
there's a lot in there about atheism.
And someone was like, oh, you're an atheist.
Like share your deconversion story.
I was like, that doesn't fit, but I'll do it.
So that was like the first non-bookish thing I did on my booktube channel.
And it was really small.
I mean, it wasn't anything big.
And, and then people were like, well, that's great.
Like, but you said this in there.
Tell me more about that.
So then I made a second video.
And on the booktube channel, I had 10 videos that were, I called them Sunday
school, I think was my playlist and I put them out on Sundays.
And I was going to keep doing that.
And I was like, no, I'll just make my own channel for it.
And that's really how MindShift started last year.
And then, uh, I had those videos.
And so at first, like the first couple of weeks, you know, I did like these
Tuesday takedowns and then I was covering a book of the Bible and that wasn't too
hard.
And then I had this Sunday video already prepped for my booktube channel.
And so I was able to put out, and then I started doing like a Saturday short,
like a little 10 minutes.
So I had four videos a week for like the first six weeks and everyone was like,
great upload schedule.
This is amazing.
So much content.
I was like, it won't, it won't stay.
Like don't get excited, but I've gotten kind of not stuck because I love doing
it, but every week, I think this will be the week I only get out one video.
And so far for nine months, I've kept up, but I'm waiting any week now for this
to be the week where it's like, no, I have nothing left to say.
I have nothing to react to.
I don't have a Sunday topic, but by the skin of my teeth, something comes up,
you know, every Tuesday, Thursday, Sunday for me to get something out.
So again, I appreciate the love, but I don't know how long I'll be able to
keep up that schedule.
You've got almost 40,000 subscribers now.
I reckon you'll be way ahead of that shortly, because I think you just do
the content you're producing is so consistent.
So amazing.
Do you have a quick technology problem?
That's not interesting to anyone but myself.
But do you, do you have like a teleprompter or anything that you that you
like write your scripts, write scripts on or do you just like go off the cuff?
I mainly go off the cuff.
I watched a video of someone doing a teleprompter and I thought, dang,
that looks awesome.
Like it's on the camera stand and it's right there and you can see it.
It looks like you're looking at the camera.
And I sat down one time to try to script an episode and it was, it was horrible.
Like nothing comes, like what happens is just the train of thought of me speaking.
And then I just edit out all the crap.
And so, you know, there's a lot of editing.
It's not like I just perfectly die tribe for 40 minutes.
It's a two hour video that gets cut down to 40 minutes because I do a tangent
here and I hate that or I said that and that's not true when I went back and
looked and so it's, it's more of a redacting process for me than it is
like getting it right the first time.
But I, I do an outline sometime if I'm going to cover a lot of verses.
I have some episodes that are really verse heavy, like 50 verses, 200 verses,
whatever, where I'm really making a case for something and that I'll definitely
like collect the verses ahead of time and make an outline.
But otherwise, no, I just try to pick a topic and go.
It's just, it's really good.
It's good stuff.
Not to, not to continue to insert explicit there, but yeah, really, really awesome.
And back to what we were talking about though.
What were we talking about?
And you mentioned your video.
Oh, we do just the local flood and, and yeah, knowing about the rest of the world.
Well, this is something that this is something that I kind of want to touch on.
It's, it's, you have actually forget that I want to ask this question.
What type of Christian were you?
Were you type of Christian that like, did you speak in tongues?
Did you do what you were very Pentecostally?
Did you have laying on of hands?
Did you, or were you more into the study of the Bible?
Yeah.
Um, that's a great question.
I've been, I've been wanting to cover tongues so much in a video and I, it's
same thing as like demon possession, like these things that were such a huge
part of my life or the culture around me that affected me so much.
I've hesitated to make videos on yet because I want to do it perfect.
I want it to be like that two hour all-encompassing.
Let's get all the details out at once video.
I struggled with tongues.
I remember we called our, um, his group like Kings kids alive or something.
It was so stupid.
And down there in the church and it like first grade, they did the altar call
and the kids thing to be baptized in the Holy spirit by way of evidence of tongues.
And so I went down there and I did my thing and, you know, they ask you for the
first time, it's like such a pivotal moment, you know, like go ahead and you're
supposed to, as a seven year old, speak in tongues or what you think is tongues.
And so I did it and it happened, you know, and I came from the home where my mom,
and this is looking back, it's not even biblically correct, but she would be
speaking in tongues 24 seven, she'd be praying to God in tongues while she was
washing the dishes and vacuuming and like whatever.
I, so it wasn't, it wasn't scary to me and it wasn't obscene or weird, but when
it came time for me to do it, I immediately had like this honesty check of is that
me and then the, the feedback after that is horrible.
You tell that to a pastor and this is the guy that just baptized you in the Holy
spirit.
So it's, it's kind of calling him a liar or that it didn't work.
You know, if you are doubting that it was the Holy spirit, because you
shouldn't be doubting this, you should be convicted in this and the pushback I
got from him in first grade during that particular experience probably scarred
me and my speaking in tongues journey for the next 20 years, because I was
always scared of offending God or being an imposter or being deceived by the
devil, but also according to what I believed thought that was the evidence of
being baptized in the Holy spirit.
And so I, I did speak in tongues.
I didn't ever really feel comfortable with it and I can, I can hear like those
Christians, ah, I see you were never a Christian, but it was the intellectual
honesty that I think like actually, and it took 30 years to get to the point of
saying, maybe that's because there isn't anything more than the psychological
effect going on.
So that was, that's a big issue for me.
And there's so much more there to break down.
So that's the answer to tongues.
But in general, everything else I was game for.
I thought I healed people.
I thought I got healed.
I was prophesied over.
I thought I was going to do great things.
I thought I saw prophecies come true to me.
My best friend had a series of prophecies that seemed to come true for
everyone in his life, except for the one he made for me.
But then it's like, man, it happened for everyone else.
And it's, again, it's that, it's that weird doubt, or is it just me being more
honest?
And so, you know, that was a tug and pull with a lot of those kinds of gifts and
signs and wonders and things like that.
Um, and that's honestly what kind of led me to more of a progressive Christian
Christianity, other than.
Young earth creation, falling flat and evolution being true.
Once I really wrapped my head around both of those, and then some of those more
charismatic things I had always had issues with.
It was like, oh, okay, this is clear.
I've had the wrong version of this all along.
And I whittled it down to what was more comfortable, more progressive, more natural,
healthier, more loving, more about Jesus, more about the scripture, New Testament only.
And, um, and so yeah, there was a real ebb and flow and, and evolution to my
Christianity in that regard.
That's a long answer, but there's a lot there.
No, it was, do you, do you remember, did, did you have any fault for that when
you did become a progressive Christian from, uh, loved ones?
So my mom's pretty full-fledged.
Um, but I think she even had issues.
I spit the whiskey, no, specifically because I, um, I called her out on the
tongue thing and I said, Hey, like from my understanding, it seems like someone
needs to be able to interpret tongues for you to be doing this.
And she was like, yeah, I actually, I kind of been thinking that too.
I've dialed it down.
And then she was also a preacher.
She was the missions director and she preached all the time.
And I said, Hey, like, how do you feel about what Paul says, uh, in second.
And so like, she knew that I was like kind of leaving some of that more whatever
and really getting more to the scriptures and the text and like trying to understand
things correctly instead of taking them at such face value.
Um, so I didn't get a lot of pushback even from her, which would have been the
biggest one.
And then my group, I was kind of like in some cases the Christian leader.
And so a lot of people kind of came with me on my journey out of fundamentalism
where, uh, they just, they couldn't make excuses for what we were all learning
about evolution either.
And so we were all kind of like, it was almost like a rallying call for my
group, uh, a really close group of us to be like, let's find the real answers.
Like let's find what was metaphor.
Let's stop being these Christians that are so crazy, uh, and driving people away.
And, you know, let's be better examples of Christ.
And, and so yeah, that movement, I know a lot of people get pushed back when they
leave fundamentalism.
I was lucky to do it with a group, but then it may leave in that group that much
harder because it's like, oh Brandon, you took it too far.
You know, everyone wants you to question and doubt because it's healthy and
responsible and honest up to a point.
And then if you cross whatever that tipping point is for them, oh, you've
been deceived, you went too far.
Like you lost, you lost the track here.
So that's all when all my pushback came.
Do you remember what that was?
Like what was the, the moment that you were like, oh shit, this doesn't work anymore.
Yeah.
I don't know if, you know, I, I did a video the other day on deconstruction and I
talked, someone had labeled like done research on the five steps of deconverting.
And, and one of, I think step three was like a trigger.
And I said that I don't think that's necessarily fair.
I think it's more of a tipping point because it's such a collection of things.
Like, yeah, there's definitely someone that has a trigger in their life.
Their child dies and they're like, this God can't exist.
And you could make excuses for that, but you can also understand it.
Most people though, who deconvert, I think it's a, it's a thousand things.
It's before that final straw that breaks the camel's back.
It is this tipping point of, okay, I could make excuses for one.
I could be okay not knowing for three, but now we're on 172 and I'm just out.
I've got no excuses left and there's so much counter evidence to the contrary.
So the final thing I remember was I really, really, really, really tried to get a final
answer on the slavery issue and it's not like I'm a one issue deconverter.
It wasn't like, oh, I can't excuse slavery and therefore God's not real.
Oh, he could just be a God I disagree with, or there could be something I don't understand.
But on top of everything else, with everything else I already had an issue with and could not
explain, as soon as it became abundantly clear to me, and this is a hill I would die on,
that 100% the God of the Bible condones and endorses chattel slavery.
I see no way around it.
I've never had a good argument against it.
I know the verse is too well.
I was like, what am I to do?
Like, okay, even if this God is real, this is unacceptable.
Like, I cannot make an excuse for this.
So that wasn't the moment I deconverted or anything, but that was the realization for
me where it was like, even if there is something out there, or even if some parts of this Bible
are true and we don't have to get into inerrancy or all of that, there's these character traits
that seem to be inexcusable.
And the more that these compiled, it was like, yeah, it's going to fall apart.
And then it kind of, it took the steam out of some of the other excuses I had held on to.
Yeah, the slavery one's big, isn't it?
But has anyone told you that the Israelite slavery was actually a fun tickle time slavery
where the master would treat their slave with respect?
Totally.
I go to work.
Oh my gosh, lucky is them getting to work off that debt in such a healthy way.
Oh my gosh, they were healthy.
What's this supposed to do?
They were like lap dogs.
Like, how great are them until you hear that like, they have a child, that child is born
into slavery and they have to pierce their ear and stay forever if they want a relationship
with their child.
It's like, oh yeah, maybe not so fun times.
Oh, wow, that never, that never occurred.
So I always knew that was quite brutal.
And what you're talking about is X is 21.
Is that, is that correct?
I'd have to look.
I'm not someone that always, I don't have the rolodex, but.
Yeah, so essentially, can you explain that?
Because that's always hit me one way, but now just thinking about that having a child.
I actually think it's the most damning thing in the entire Bible that a child can be born
into slavery in the Israelite tradition under God's laws period.
That's the work around is if you had an Israelite indentured servant who you could be to do all
these horrible things too, as long as they didn't lose a tooth or lose an arm or whatever
the rules were.
If you wanted them to stay longer, you know, the work around was, hey, get them married.
And if they have a kid and or a spouse, they are now permanent indentured servants,
if we're using the best terminology, which I think as soon as you have the word permanent,
it becomes slave.
But the only way to stay with your family was to then choose, choose that, you know,
this man gets to choose on year seven.
No, I'll I'll sign up for life here.
And that's that's my understanding.
I again, the verses I'm more comfortable with because it's the more damning case is the
chattel slavery side with the nations around you buying slave buying slaves and passing them
down as property and all of that.
But I'm pretty sure I have all that correct.
And I think that that's like, that's insane.
Yeah.
No, there's it is very insane.
I'm just trying to find this verse.
Okay, here we go.
If you buy a Hebrew servant, uses the word servant in NIV for sure, probably meant to
be slave.
If you buy a Hebrew servant, he's a survey for six years.
But in the seventh year, he shall go free without paying anything.
If he comes alone, he is to go free.
He is to go free alone.
But if he has a wife when he comes, she's to go with him.
But if the master gives him a wife and she bears him sons or daughters,
the woman and her children shall belong to her master and only the man shall go free.
But if the servant declares, I love my master and I love my wife and children and do not want
to go free, then the master must take him before the judges.
He shall take he shall take him to the door of the doorpost and pierce his ear with an
awl.
Then he will be his servant, such slave for life.
That, excuse my French, is fucking brutal.
Yeah.
But now having that perspective after having my kid, Atlas, having, having Atlas,
I would take that.
Like, I think about this from a third party perspective, like, okay, well, then you lose
your family.
That sucks.
But if I was in this situation, I would opt to be with my family.
I would opt to become this person's slave for life.
Yeah, that's, that's insane.
That's, that's disgusting.
And even the virgins are like, oh, if you declare you love your spouse and you love
your master, like this idea of it's, it's the same thing to me as having to profess love
for God, right?
Like we're commanded to love God, which is to obey him.
That's how Jesus describes what loving him means to obey me.
So, you know, we have the same slave servant mentality, even as Christians with Jesus,
we're commanded to love him.
And that looks like servitude.
And professing your love for your master so that you can stay with your wife and kid is
such, uh, unto death as well.
Yeah, it's, it's like the most abusive thing, like, hey, bow down and kiss my feet if you
want to keep your wife.
And you know, look, you wanted this.
You love me.
You wanted to stay.
You chose to have your ear pierced.
You can go like the very fact that a child can be born into slavery.
And again, you know, I'm not a scholar in this regard.
Maybe it was Joshua Bowen.
I, I'm not sure someone was talking about there's good evidence to believe that that
would have been a work around within the Israelite community.
I'm not sure what the evidence is.
It's not a hill I would die on to purposely get your servants married and have them make
children so that you could get free labor, you know, forever.
I mean, it's, it's obviously even without having any proof that that would exist.
Of course, people are going to manipulate the system.
People are always looking for loopholes and laws.
Like we know this, if that's on the books, which you read it, it is what master out
there wouldn't have been trying to do this.
Think about how many Israelite children were born into slavery and then try to tell
me this is a God that doesn't promote slavery.
Like it's insane.
And not only that, there is, there is a piece of sophistry that's just passed around by
apologists that says, well, this was Moses.
Moses was kind of a bad dude.
Sometimes, you know, we struck the rock instead of speaking to it.
These aren't instructions from God.
I've heard that apologetic, but this is the same sophistry that's around, you know, the,
the contradictions between Matthew's genealogy and Luke's genealogy, where they, they just
don't line up.
Luke will say, Joseph's father is right.
Or whatever it is, and they'll translate that to say, well, that's Mary's bloodline.
That's not what it says.
And this is exactly what they're doing with this verse.
This is Moses being a bad dude or Joshua or whoever been a bad dude who wrote this.
But if you go, if you just read what it says, like at the start, it says,
and then the Lord said to Moses, tell Israel, that's this, and then keeps going.
These are the laws you are to set before them.
And then literally goes to, if you buy a servant, if you to buy a servant, a Hebrew
servant, he must serve you for six years.
So these are instructions.
This is like, this is quoting God.
This was a red letter Bible or whatever the letter coloring would be for.
This would be colored in like instructions from God.
And it's just this, it's this tap dance that apologists seem to do because they know it's
immoral.
They know it's wrong.
And then the other in the next breath, they'll say they get the morality from the Bible.
Right.
And then they, but then they obviously don't because they're, they're negotiating with the text
because they know something inside them is like, it's probably not good to own a little
baby as property that you can pass on to your children as inheritance.
That's probably not a good thing.
So it's beyond frustrating.
And obviously everyone can tell the whiskey's caught up with me.
I'm now ranting.
No, I love it because, you know, the other thing too is it's like,
God calls Moses out every single time Moses messed up.
You know, it's not like Moses, first of all, we know Moses didn't write this book because
it includes his death, but furthermore, we know
just this is someone else writing about Moses.
It's not like there's a bias coming from Moses.
They're willing to call Moses out on behalf of God when Moses has done wrong.
I mean, he's denied going into the Promised Land because of these sins.
We know what God considered incorrect that Moses did.
And of that list of things, it's never you gave the wrong commandment.
In fact, Moses is so scared about doing wrong to God that the one time that he told his soldiers,
make sure you kill all the children during a battle and they didn't.
You know, there's this epic verse.
You'll maybe we can find it or we'll just leave it to people to go find it.
But he has all the young boys that were spared from the battle on the other side,
brought forward and has them all murdered because he's like, listen,
this wasn't this wasn't hyperbole.
God meant kill them all.
And it's the scene that is left out of every Exodus movie where Moses has all these little
children lined up and murdered to make sure that he's pleasing God correctly,
because he knows what God said.
And that's not called out and being disobedient.
And it's like, if you're going to start down the path of making these kinds of apologetics where,
oh, humans are fallible, humans can misrepresent God.
Okay, then we can't believe a word of the Bible.
So we have nothing to you cannot pick and choose here.
And yeah, it's just it's fascinating to me.
You've just hit the nail like on the heads because I kind of agree with Ken Ham when he says,
Oh, I never thought I'd say that.
But I kind of agree with Ken Ham that, you know, if you then if you take out,
if you believe evolution and you take out Adam and Eve and Genesis,
well, Jesus quoted Adam and Eve.
Yeah, and not metaphor.
Yeah.
And how do you and how do you then reconcile?
Like what parts of the Bible to believe and what part of the Bible not to believe?
Now, I don't think that's a good reason to then therefore conclude that creationism is true,
because you're engaging in motivated reasoning there.
Sure.
But I still think it's in.
It's true.
I still think that you can't like it's hard.
I don't know how people just go, this part's metaphorical.
This part's like, like a joke.
The slavery.
You don't know how it's all about context.
You just need to know original Hebrew and Greek and then you'll be fine.
Oh, my gosh, I'm so tired of it.
And and it's kind of what I said earlier, you know, the people who again,
I don't like saying the words either fundamentalist like Ken Ham or Hovind or whoever, they all,
they all are taking the Bible at face value and they're not picking and choosing like.
And yeah, they're, if this God was correct, they're definitely taking things that were
obviously meant to be poetic, you know, and now I'm doing the same thing.
I'm saying, well, some parts are.
Some parts are clear.
You know, if when Jesus says, here's a parable, cool, that's a metaphor.
When Jesus says, truly, I tell you for the third time, he's not saying a parable.
Like there are indicators in the Bible of what we should take seriously or literal and not.
And when a prophet of the Old Testament who has been anointed and ordained by God says,
here is what God is saying, it's typically not poetry.
It's typically meaning God said this.
And there's so many things that God said that represent his character by his word.
And then the follow up actions that prove it wasn't a metaphor.
Here's that thing God said being carried out, you know, in 17 different books of the Old
Testament and 23 different iterations.
And you can no longer make those kinds of excuses.
What's your favorite part of us?
Well, I had many now or when I was a believer.
Now, what's your above us now?
That was a stupid question for me because one of my favorite verses is the same.
There's a verse in Ecclesiastes and I actually can't think of it right now.
And it's, let your words be few.
And I love Ecclesiastes in general.
And it's hilarious because now all I do is talk about the Bible so much.
But at the time it was like a good kick in the butt for me to be like, hey,
like be a man of action, really represent this, stop, you know, enjoying hearing yourself speak
about like the goodness of God and just be the goodness of God.
And that's not even what that verse means.
That's the thing about being a Christian.
You can just pluck a verse out and make it whatever you want.
Like I recognize I wasn't keeping that verse in context.
But I still love that verse.
It's one of my tattoos.
I have all Christian tattoos.
I'm no longer interested in tattoos now that I'm not a Christian.
So I'm stuck with all my Christian ones.
But my very first tattoo was Job 121, which is disgusting.
It might be my least favorite verse now.
The Lord gives the Lord takes away blessed be the name of the Lord,
which is essentially a hall pass for God to do whatever he wants,
because I'm just his lowly servant and who am I to question him?
And if he wants to murder my whole family and take all my possessions,
you know, that's his right.
And I'm so lucky and I'm so thankful.
And I thought that was the height of wisdom, you know, just that's what we're told.
The beginning of wisdom is to fear God and not only fearing God in this sense of awe,
but appreciating the suffering that he allows us to have.
I mean, it's such a disgusting, it's truly mentally harmful.
And I've got it right here.
And yeah, those were like the kinds of verses I loved.
Big, bold, God is sovereign versus.
I have a tattoo that says,
therefore, if the sun sets you free, you're free indeed.
And in my mind, I'm like, one day I'll be free of my pornography addiction.
I need to get rid of this pornography addiction.
And that was like one of my, I guess, thorns in my side that as a Christian,
I felt very conflicted about the cinema that I enjoyed in my private time.
But yeah, it's wild.
I don't regret my tattoos.
Like, actually, they still tell like a story.
They're not as cool as I remember, but I thought they did at the time.
But I still tell a story.
It's funny that you say that you actually gave up a really good answer to some of the,
you know, that your favorite verse or verses.
When something that you mentioned at the start,
and I'm all over the place this interview, I apologize.
Oh, you're fine.
This is just a small conversation, but something you said at the start is,
your favorite sin is blasphemy, right?
I guess essentially like picking on God.
I've never thought about that question.
I don't know what I'm going to say, like murder, but you know, like.
It's just a fun sin.
I mean, it's just a fun question.
Sorry.
But something that is very interesting is I actually take it an opposite approach.
So I actually, I actually think that the apologists are the one who,
one, the apologists and the Christians are the one who are teasing God.
So I build this like, this, this concept of a God in my, in my head.
And I go, okay, if there is like hypothetically, if there is an all knowing,
all loving, all powerful creator of the universe,
would they be described like, would they tell us to own slaves?
Would they not want to, would they want to like kill witches?
You know, would they, you know, hate homosexuals?
You know, would they cast unbelievers into a lake of fire?
And I go, no.
And I go, so, so anyone that's saying that, that God,
that the critical units would do that is the one that's teasing God.
It's like, it's like, if I go, oh, I know Brandon, you know,
Brandon and I start making up all these like rumors about you.
It's like, that's not, that's not true.
That's like, that's like, you're picking on, you're now picking on Brandon.
Stop.
So I'm, I'm sitting here on deep ring saying, stop picking on God.
It's not okay.
Like it's, if there is a God, you're saying some really horrible
shit about this God.
Cause he most certainly isn't the God of the Quran or the Bible.
I see what you're saying.
I was going to say, if you're talking about the God of the Bible,
then all they're doing is parodying him because he supposedly said these things
by his word.
But if you're talking about, if there is a God that is higher
than all of these man made creations we've made,
the real blasphemy is giving any attribution to a local man made God,
especially one that is so evil and horrendous.
And yes, with that, I agree.
But also if there is a real God out there who's not any of these man made Gods,
he obviously it, she obviously is not trying to communicate with us or give us
any message or define its personality to us.
So I don't know.
Like I said, I think no matter what, it's a victimless crime because we either have
a God that's unengaged or we have one of these Gods that's just
clearly not real.
And how could you hurt God?
And this brings me to one of your videos and one of the subjects I wanted to
kind of talk about, which is, I think it's your most recent one,
questioning the unquestionable.
And no, it's not.
It's the one on heaven.
It was your episode on heaven.
And it kind of is a similar thing in that how can you hurt a God?
How can you offend or upset or make a God angry?
That just kind of shows that that God is not perfect, that God is not whole.
He, she, it, whatever is missing something.
It's like it needs to get its attention or something from something else.
It's like it's not whole.
Like if I'm having the best day ever and I'm super confident and someone says,
like, Dave, your t-shirt sucks or you've got dumb hair, I don't care.
I'm not worried.
Like, okay, cool, man.
Or like someone I don't respect says something to me.
I'm like, it's like arguing with the writing on a bathroom wall.
I don't care.
It's like, I'm not going to worry over this.
But if I'm like really down and out and someone I care about says something,
you know, it hurts.
And this is the same thing with, with heaven is like,
you touched on, on the idea of heaven.
And maybe you can kind of explain it in a little bit more depth,
because I didn't look into it too much.
But the heaven is like this constant worshiping of this creator,
this like, this, this admiration and this like, you know, expressing of love.
Doesn't God have something to do?
Like it just seems like, like one, what is God getting out of this?
If he's, if he's like a max, he's like max level.
He's not getting any XB.
You know what I mean?
Like he's a, he's at 100 points.
You know, he's not, he's not getting anything from this.
It can become more perfect.
Yeah, you can't become more perfect.
So I just don't understand like what God's getting out of the
transaction of like us worshiping forever and forever and forever.
And I just don't understand, like, if that's even the concept that Christians have,
and I have a perspective on, is heaven just worshiping all the time?
Like what is heaven?
Right, which is hilarious.
Cause as soon as I said what I don't like about heaven,
all I got back is you can't know what heaven is.
Well, then what is everyone talking about?
How come every Christian I know tells me exactly what heaven is going to be like.
And also the Bible says some things about heaven.
And my, my video on heaven is probably my most like,
you know, a lot of people who watch the channel,
there are of course Christians and Christian trolls and things like that.
But the heaven video brought out the most opinions from everyone, I think.
Cause I made seven points and some of them are stronger than others.
You know, it was kind of filled the idea of seven issues with heaven.
Obviously, if there's a perfect God, can he create a heaven that's not boring?
Sure.
But I was talking more about like the philosophical concept of eternity.
Like there's no chance for growth.
We're perfect.
We can't become more perfect.
They're stagnation.
Like these are issues.
They're not the big issues.
The two big issues are one that you pointed out,
which is the concept of heaven for this God.
Like how is this, how, how are you outside of space and time?
You exist before and after.
And you've been here, you know, just to create a number,
even though there is no number, trillions of years.
And one day you wake up and decide to create these ridiculous primates
that all they do is get it wrong and offend you.
And even by your own word, they can never measure up.
They're, they're, they simply have no chance.
Even Adam and Eve had no chance if they were created in a way where they could send
period, they were created to be able to send.
So God made us totally fallible, but then he needs us.
And he also needs us to create other Christians.
Like we are God's plan for spreading the word.
That is the answer for divine hiddenness is I gave you what you needed as a starter kit.
Make the sourdough yourself, you know.
And it's so interesting that this God needs worship, needs praise,
wants to be with us forever to do, yeah, to do what, to, for what?
And I think that some, some of those verses about all we'll do is worship are derived from,
like Ezekiel talking about what the angels do.
You know, there are, there are particular angels that God created to do nothing but shout.
You know, Francesca Strava-Racapool in her book, God and Anatomy,
does a good job painting a picture when she gets to the anatomy of God's ears about how
deafening heaven would be. Because really when we read these verses in Hosea and Ezekiel,
these cherubs and other angels that are flying around him saying, holy, holy, holy,
they're screaming it. It's deafening.
And, and she has good verses to back this up.
And you think about that.
You think about this God sitting with his footstool on the Ark of the Covenant,
hanging out in heaven, being upset, angry, hurt, petty, regretful,
all of these emotions that he shouldn't have needing us,
the lowliest things he could have ever made.
And at what point do you step back and zoom out and say,
what, how, how is this the perfect plan of the most perfect being that has ever existed?
How is my worship going to bring him anything at all?
And if it can, which it can according to the Bible,
because when he doesn't have it, he gets pretty upset,
like how obviously man made.
And I know that you can make apologetics about what you can't understand.
And maybe God created this longing in himself so that we could have meaning.
You can make all these excuses.
But if you were just an alien and someone told you our God concept of any of the gods on earth,
but specifically Yahweh and this particular concept of eternity with him and worship and
blessing and all of this, you would say, no, obviously a man made that.
Obviously that's you guys, you know,
even having streets of gold, God wouldn't care about golden.
We wouldn't care about gold when we're in heaven.
Like that's because we thought it was rare.
So we thought it was valuable.
So we thought heaven's the most valuable.
So it's going to be made entirely of gold.
How obvious having mansions, how obvious never crying again, how obvious beating death,
the biggest, scariest thing on earth, how obvious like everything about the afterlife,
even the bad part with hell is, you know, that they better get theirs.
They offended me.
There better be a place where they go that's different than where I go because I'm working
hard to be the good one.
It's, it's so man made.
And again, you can't, it's not a reason in and of itself to say this God doesn't exist.
But it sure begins to pile evidence for why we already know the rest of the evidence is
pointing to this being a man made creation.
That's my quick diatribe on it.
And it wasn't so good.
So you just hit an eye on that again.
That's so good.
Man, what do you think about, what are the biggest problems do you think for the Christian
God besides the stuff we've talked about?
Yeah, if I had to put a top, and I've wanted to do this, I've wanted to do one of those fun
tier list of God issues, not even like arguments against God, you know, the column versus this
or that, but like, just like, what do we see as an issue?
I brought it up earlier.
I think the, the exclusivity of the God, having a chosen people group, only revealing
yourself in one time and place, smack dab in the middle of humanity.
And some of the things that surround that, like you'll hear a really common Christian
apologetic that's like, oh, Jesus came about the time of the Roman Empire so that we could
have the infrastructure in place to, you know, start the missionary journeys and spread the
good news of the gospel.
And like, it's like, well, maybe God shouldn't have done the whole Tower of Babel thing.
Like if, if you need to wait 2000 years of suffering of the Old Testament so that
we've prepared the place enough for Jesus to like, first of all, wait another 2000 years
and let's get video cameras, like then you're golden.
Like all of these things don't make any sense, but I'm on a diatribe.
The, the inclusivity or exclusivity, I think is one of the biggest ones.
Hell is obviously totally unacceptable.
The excuses of universalism and annihilation, you know, Bart Ehrman has a great book kind of
dismissing the concept of hell and why we can think of that as an after effect from Greek
culture.
And I understand that there's also a lot of verses that just say burning forever, you know,
so I don't, I don't know.
I still am formulating an opinion there, but I think however you break down the afterlife
concept is an issue for God.
Divine hiddenness is up there for me.
The problem of evil is completely unacceptable and to do, you know, the better term there is
the problem of unnecessary suffering.
Need evil because we have free will fine.
You need a level of suffering fine, but it is so obvious that we have an absolute
unnecessary level of suffering.
It's beyond demonstratable.
So those are, and then God's emotions.
Honestly, you know, I did a video on that maybe a month ago.
We should not have a God that is reactionary.
That's not a perfect divine justice plan.
We should not have a God that regretted making us and then chose to do it again,
as we have in Genesis six.
We should not have a God that delights in destruction.
I'm just quoting videos from myself now, but I make these videos because those are the
biggest things to me.
I would expect a perfect God who says he wants none to be lost, to be kind of sad when some
are lost, but I quoted 50 verses in that video of God, not his prophets, not his people,
not a man like Moses or David who had a mean streak.
God himself laughing, scoffing, taking pleasure in destruction.
Like, okay, if this God is real, I want nothing to do with him.
So I think those are some of the my main issues.
What about you?
Yeah, slavery is a huge one.
I think I want to actually talk a little bit about this in like a longer form video.
I might take a leaf out of your book and go and just talk to the camera and just rant,
but not rant.
Do what you do.
You should make videos.
I was going to say, you haven't made a video in like three or four months.
I know you do these live ones and they're great, but man, I think it'd be great if you
started making more videos.
Yeah, to be honest, I've been working on this documentary for like six months.
I'm still in pre-production and it's just a nightmare, but I've got some really cool
guests and stuff and it's going to be big.
I'll tell you some stuff about it when we get off the live.
But yeah, that is the plan.
I'm just having a newborn and just and everything.
It's just been like nuts with a schedule.
But yeah, it's something I want to do.
But for me, like the God belief in general was like this was this like had many different,
like it's like a mega belief almost.
It's like, you know, when one node goes down and one thing falls, the other things can like
take up the slack and the inherency of the Bible was a big one.
Like I just don't, I just didn't see how if you could, if you could, if the Bible wasn't
inherent, I just had no way of working out what was true and what wasn't true.
So like, I just like, okay, so what parts of like, it almost made the Bible worthless in that way,
in that, in a factual sense.
It was still maybe good for like spiritual or theological or kind of like artsy reasons
like the art part of my brain where it's like, you know, but when you're trying to get to the
facts, did God create the earth in seven days?
Did Jesus rise from the dead?
It became useless because I had no idea what was true and what was false when the Bible's
an heresy fell apart.
The Bible's morality, you know, take the virgin girls for yourself.
That was a big one.
Slavery, that was a big one.
When I started looking at, well, the heresy I've already mentioned, but yeah,
some of the big ones like hell was a big one as well.
But yeah, I guess they're the main things for me.
A big one too was misogyny and LGBT issues.
So like, and this falls under morality, but like, I remember reading a scripture that says
like women aren't to speak in church, you know, but Paul, you mentioned before,
and reading it to a pastor and being like, you know, more than a pastor, but the kid's pastor.
She was a woman and I said, you know, what does this mean?
Like what it like?
And they said, well, that was for a time, you know, like women were separated on and
they would lean across the aisle and they would disrupt the service at the time.
And I'm like, okay, all right.
And I was like, so another time I had a, he's still a good friend.
First guest on Deep Drinks, Colin was a closet homosexual and he was, you know, 45 years,
never had the data renewing and met him in ministry college.
And I said, so, you know, back then homosexual, homosexuality wasn't seen as a,
like a, a, a identity.
It was seen as like something you did, like an act.
And I said, so could, could those verses about homosexuality just be for a time?
Right.
Yeah, of course.
No consistency.
Yeah, that, that, because those are a moral issue.
Yeah.
Because why is, why is the women not talking in church a moral issue?
And then what's even worse is I, I then continued to read on in those verses and it gives the
reasoning.
It doesn't say because this is the time and people are talking across the aisle.
It says, because Eve was deceived first.
Right.
Yes.
You're like, but wait, that's still true today.
Eve was still deceived first today because, and so when I realized that we were kind of
bending the rules, or first of all, I realized I don't agree with the Bible.
And when I realized I didn't agree with the Bible, I was like, okay, I need to either correct
my perspective or I need to find another perspective for the Bible because I'm
disagreeing with God here.
And the other thing was like, wait, how come, how come we can bend the rules for some people,
but then for other people, we can't.
And the people we're not bending the rules for, like the, like folks in the LGBT community are
like at a heightened risk for things like depression, anxiety, suicide, things like that.
And I was like, this is, this is so fucked up.
Like that, that these groups of people are just getting ostracized by people that like
are reading this text that have no, no care for what it's actually trying to say, or maybe
they do, but that they bend things in other directions.
So yeah, that's the thing, you know, it's, you have 800,000 words and you have it saying
so many contracting things that all, in my opinion, the only thing that has ever happened
is whatever stage of morality our current society is in is how we interpret the Bible.
And we're seeing it now, even with, and it's interesting.
So like the, the gay community has really tried the Christian gay community to excuse
kind of like what happened with women, you know, here comes the women's suffrage movement
in the 20s and 30s.
And all of a sudden we're okay with accepting Second Timothy as a forgery, or we're okay
with saying it was just to that specific church.
You have to understand the context because we're seeing women as equal.
And so now we need our Bible to see women as equal.
And now that society at large is getting more okay with homosexuality, we're seeing
that same thing start to happen.
And I guarantee you 50 years from now, pick a number, there will be as okay as we are with
women preaching, there will be Christians being okay with homosexuality.
And because you can, you can still pull things out.
Same thing with slavery.
Like a couple hundred years ago, let's use the Bible to promote slavery here in America.
Fast forward, everyone's morality is slavery bad.
Oh, indentured servitude arguments.
And so, you know, that's the problem with the Bible that is so vague and contradictory
is you really can map it on to whatever you need it to say.
And I think it's just hilarious, all the excuses you mentioned, and it's not even all of them.
You know, again, I've heard as soon as you break it down for everyone,
well, he says it's because of the woman with Eve.
And so you can't make the local excuse and the moral excuse that you brought up.
There's actually Christians in my comment section that have said,
well, we know Second Timothy is a forgery.
What?
You're okay with something that's been canon for, I don't know, 1200 years
being finding out that it's a forgery and you're okay with that.
Like we have based, there's a lot of other stuff in Second Timothy,
besides how we should treat women.
Was, sorry, is Two Timothy not canon?
It hasn't been canon.
Wasn't it originally canonized in 300 something or?
Yeah, so longer.
My math is bad.
Oh, sorry.
No, it's only been canon for a very, very long time since like the original councils, right?
That's quick math on whiskey.
But my point is, is like, we have a good group of Christians today
that because of there's so many issues in particular books,
and because of what the scholarship has been able to point to,
I think there's six pseudo Pauling books, Second Timothy being one of them,
where we know it's a forgery that was associated to Paul for clout.
How can you be a Christian and be okay with that and trust any part of the Bible?
But you can't be a Christian who's honest about your views on women
and not wanting this God to not be a misogynist and allow Second Timothy.
So you, you just get, this is what I mean.
I'm so hopeful that as this progresses, I see it going one of two ways.
We either continue to make the same excuse game in the adjustment
to our current moral standards, or we run out of rope finally.
And I do think in some regards, we're close to running out of rope,
where it's such common knowledge, thanks to the internet,
some of these issues, like the forgery of the Pauling epistles,
that you have to take a stand at some point of this Bible is nowhere near inerrant.
It can't be.
And thus, I now have trust issues, and I have good reason
to speak out against the validity of the Bible.
Or you have to accept some things that our modern morals say are unacceptable,
like the disparaging of women.
You, you, you have to fall on one of those two sides in this particular issue,
and there's thousands of issues like this.
And so I think that it's going to lead to a pretty big tipping point of,
we're going to go into another dark age of putting our head in the sand,
and it's just going to, we're going to accept everything in this Bible again for a long time,
or it's going to be so irreconcilable eventually as the knowledge gets out there,
and more scholarship gets out there, that hopefully it breaks the camel's back finally.
I don't know, it's got to go one of two ways.
I think we got a way for so long in human history,
where so little people could read and have access to the information and the issues with the Bible,
that we couldn't have this.
And just having the internet around for like 20, 25 years of this kind of apologetic
in conversations, look what it's done, you know, it's amazing.
So I think, you know, exponentially, it's just going to drop off.
Yeah, it definitely will.
I think Australia has just passed, like, I think there are more atheists now than
specific groups of...
Oh, interesting.
Yeah, and I think that happened because of the same-sex marriage plebiscite,
like that really like pissed off a lot of people and people on the fence,
saying they were kind of Christian, but not got pushed to one side,
with how much hate the church was kind of spewing out.
But before you said, you know, why invent the Tower of Babel?
Why make it so Rome?
You know, Jesus came around the Roman period.
I have like a better solution for an all-powerful, all-knowing creator of the universe.
The same way babies know how to breathe when they're born,
or pump blood, or reach for something.
Why don't we just...
Why aren't we just born with the full knowledge of God?
Like, what would that change?
It wouldn't change free will.
Like, remember, the devil and one-third of his angels had full knowledge.
He wasn't Satan like the worship leader in heaven,
probably playing Christian rock.
But like, you know, now he plays heavy metal.
But like, he had full knowledge of God, and one-third of the angels,
and apparently still could deny God.
So I just don't understand why God is hiding, why we need to find him,
why we need to translate the English Bible to say the exact opposite
of what it says in plain reading.
When I talk to an apologist, I go,
hey, you know, Jesus kind of told his disciples that he would return within a generation.
I tell you the truth, this generation shall not pass
until they see all these things happen.
And they go, David, David, David.
Don't you know that that word generation means race,
and really is talking about the Jewish people as a whole?
Well, then why does the Bible say that in English?
Why do I have to, like, put the pieces of the puzzle together,
like some, like, cosmic jigsaw to work out what God's trying to say here?
Why did the English Bible translators
translate it as generation in every single Bible and not just race of people?
And what's the purpose of Jesus saying?
I tell you the truth, the Jews will be around till the end.
Like, what does that mean?
What does that even mean?
Like, okay, so he's just telling them that, like,
I just don't understand.
It's just, it's just, it's just silly.
And it's, I'm diatribe, but it's silly.
And I just think, like, why is it so hard to understand the mind of God?
Why can't we just be born with that knowledge?
It was so many issues.
I agree.
And it's not even the angels, because then it's funny.
I'm sure, I don't expect that everyone is seeing, like, the two, three,
the full three and a half hours that just happened on the line with me and Matt,
but we had a caller that went down this line of that we do lose free will when we,
when we see God or have perfect evidence of him.
And we started at the angels and then we went to Adam and Eve and he said,
well, that doesn't count either because, you know, that's prefall.
But Adam and Eve were also around after the fall.
And then Cain, Cain had direct conversations with God and that was after the fall,
a generation after the fall.
So what's your excuse there?
And, you know, going all the way through to the prophets, Moses, seeing God,
face to face, Abraham, Jacob or Israel wrestling with God, even into the New Testament,
Judas being on a disciple of Jesus, falling him around, seeing these things firsthand and still
choosing to betray him in the greatest way possible, not just apathy or agnosticism,
betraying the savior of the world, the son of God.
Like you cannot make the excuse any longer that evidence of God takes away our free will.
When the patriarchs of the Bible or in not always patriarchs, but some of the most prominent
members of the Bible have seen God closer than any of us ever could, even with an ingrained
knowledge of him as an instinct, it's the stupidest excuse, the free will thing.
But it's also the hardest one to fight.
It is the hill that they all die on.
They just, they cannot wrap their heads around it.
And it, but there's too many examples in the Bible.
Like I didn't even list them all.
There are so many examples in the Bible.
I mean, imagine being an Israelite camped around Sinai for, I forget how long it was,
but it was a good amount of time.
And you're seeing every single day God in a pillar of cloud.
And every single night you see the raging fire outside the tent entrance.
And you see Moses' physical formation changed when he comes down from the mountain.
And you see the ground open up to swallow up.
That like you cannot have this existence and continue to, and by the way, arguably the worst
people in the Bible, this particular first generation group of Israelites that rejects
God over and over and over, that worships false idol after false idol after false idol,
that continues to pick up sticks on Sundays or Saturdays.
Like you cannot have this generation who knows God so intimately, who was brought out of slavery
by him, who rejected him and then say, well, if we knew about him, it would ruin our free will.
What are you talking about?
Nothing could fall flat.
So yeah, I agree with you.
I think that's a huge one.
It's like the mental gymnastics sophistry.
It's just, I don't know.
I mean, you've done the very smart thing in state of social media.
Well, at least you don't have social media at the moment.
Let me tell you, there's a few apologists on Twitter that really, they say things that
deliberately trigger everyone.
And it's sometimes so triggering, it's funny.
But this morning, and maybe you can touch a little bit on this.
Let me just see.
Hopefully you'll go to Twitter and it won't bring up anything inappropriate.
Yeah, it's a bit of a gamble.
It really is.
Let me just, but one of the, one of the amazing folks that I'd like to talk about all the time,
Cameron Batuzzi of Capturing Christianity.
He stated, to prove that people on the internet will argue about literally anything,
here's a picture of a metaphysical, physically necessary truth.
Everything that exists, that begins to exist has a cause.
And I said, begins to, is slipped in there because it would refute God, sophistry.
Because like, you wouldn't naturally, you don't naturally write everything that begins to exist.
Of course you say everything that exists has a cause.
That's what you'd naturally say, but that doesn't work.
Because that takes out God.
What are your thoughts on like an argument like that, like everything that begins to exist
has a cause, like somebody's like classic.
Yeah, it's special to leading to the highest degree, which you pointed out.
You're changing even the verbiage of the argument to make an exception
for the thing that's already an exception.
Our God is outside of space and time.
That's the same thing as nothing.
Same thing as nothing.
It also means he can't, it also means he can't be impactful in this world.
Because as soon as he interacts or interferes with this world, we can, we can see that.
We can measure that difference.
When God killed of his own volition in action, no soldier is needed.
When he throws stones down from heaven to help out, oh, I forget which prophet it was.
Who was the really scared meek, weak guy?
Why can I not think of this name?
This is going to just drive me nuts.
It's the Scotch.
Yeah, we'll blame it on that.
I recall this is like I told you, this is one of those times in the video
where I'm over here Googling and then I look so smooth like,
oh, Brandon has a perfect memory.
So I'm giving myself away here.
But, you know, when God throws down a rock from heaven,
he's no longer outside of space and time.
When he takes a life on purpose to help his army get a victory,
when he sends a deceiving spirit, when he confuses everyone and makes them blind
so that they can't win their battle, like all of these times that God interacts,
even sending Jesus, guess what?
God's no longer outside of space and time.
If he is there, he has to stay there.
The second he interacts, you can't do this anymore.
And so again, I think that those arguments, the fallacy is of course special pleading
because you can do the same thing with any other term.
You can do the same thing with the universe.
You know, this is the whole conversation with infinite regress
and did the universe come from nothing?
And all of these straw men that they try to put in the mouth of an atheist,
and I'm no expert, but I do know that whatever you can say about God,
you could just say about the universe and you've made it one order of complexity less.
So if you're talking about Occam's razor, if you really want to be logical,
like then be logical.
We know we can follow a timeline 13.8 billion years.
We don't know what happened before that.
If there's a before that, we don't know if universes beget universes.
If this is some kind of a cycle, we can only measure to a point.
And after that, the honest thing to say is, I don't know.
If you're going to make the argument that it had to come from something,
then so does God.
Well, not God.
He's outside of that.
Why?
And there is no why except that you want him to be the first cause
because that answers your weird, creepy, little apologetic tactic.
And it simply doesn't work.
I think they get the most attention because you can dress them up like the,
you know, William Lane Craig's Kalam is.
It's simple with its premises, but when you actually hear him explain it,
he's using so many philosophical terms and really impressive language
that you feel like, how do I, how do I fight this?
How can I break this down?
But all he is saying is my God is the one exception.
And it's like, that's not an answer.
That doesn't answer anything.
And I actually saw that one.
I don't have Twitter or Facebook or anything,
but I saw that because Cameron posted it on his community board on YouTube.
And I didn't react to it because I don't want to go crazy every day.
But I thought, how disingenuous to not post the argument in full,
to not, to not be correct with the verbiage,
you know, to, to even do it in a way to like rile people up.
Like, what's your point?
How is this God's love?
What are you doing here?
It just, it's all so disingenuous to me that I think I don't have this burden.
As an atheist content creator, I don't owe God anything.
But if you're a Christian apologist or a content creator for God,
do you not really need to check yourself on if you're doing more for the kingdom than less
and how you're utilizing your time and what you're doing with your ad revenue?
Like, and I know that's an unfair position for me who isn't held to the same standard,
but I think it's insane what a, and I don't know Cameron,
and I, I'm not saying anything about him in particular,
but as a sounding board here really, or a jumping off point of,
how do any of these apologists justify these quips, these riling up atheists?
You know, he said other things that are downright just horrible about atheists.
And like, first Peter says to give a kind account.
Is this you giving a kind account?
Is this you showing God's love?
I just, I think that they, the fact that they're not held to this higher standard,
or that they don't hold themselves to it, or that people don't expect,
Christians don't expect it, is another problem within itself.
We do not see lives changed.
We do not see a piece that surpasses understanding.
My Christian commenters are the, some of the nastiest things I've ever heard.
And yes, other Christians would say they don't represent anyone,
but if, if they have the light of Christ in them,
should they ever even be able to type these things?
I, it just blows my mind at what point do you say
there is a standard of what it should look like to be a Christian,
and we simply don't see it.
And I just went somewhere completely different than you were going with a column argument,
or a first cause argument, but it all ties together,
because I see those posts all the time.
And it's like, what are you doing?
How, like, I have a high standard for how I conduct myself online than this.
What, what is going on?
Yeah, I was arguing, then this is my fault.
I shouldn't argue with people on Twitter.
And I don't know why I did, but I don't know why I do actually.
I really don't know what I do because I've like made promises myself.
I'm going to stop arguing with people on Twitter.
I even mess it.
I even emailed Cameron and said,
Hey, I'm sorry if I've ever been rude to you on Twitter.
I'm trying my hardest to be just to address the arguments, not you.
And I messaged a bunch of other apologists as well and said,
Look, I'm trying to turn over a new leaf.
Just address the arguments.
I don't want to be like that bitter, angry atheist.
Yeah.
Even though internally it drives me insane.
But the, yeah, I don't know why I was arguing with this,
but this like one Christian was like literally calling me a dumb ass.
And, and so for that, and I was like, do you,
I was like, what gospel are you reading?
I was like, because I like know the gospel where it says like to turn the other cheek.
And he's like, what?
Christians just supposed to bend over and take it.
And I'm like, yes, explicitly.
Yes.
Like I read the gospels where like, who was it?
Stephen was like stoned.
One of them was like stoned.
And then celebrated the fact, I think it was acts,
celebrated the fact that he was like worthy of being persecuted for Christ.
I read the gospel that says turn the other cheek.
You know, when, when, so I read the gospel that says,
I read the Bible that says pray for those who persecute you.
You know, like I just, I just don't get this perspective where it's like,
what are we supposed to just, we're supposed to just like,
people just rip on us.
It's like, yes, exactly a hundred percent.
Yes.
Like a hundred percent.
I just don't, I just don't get it.
And I, I feel for them because in, in some part it's like,
aside from their religion, they would almost be correct.
Like it's, you know, if I say something foolish, I'm a fool,
but Christians aren't allowed to call someone a fool.
You know, it's right there in Matthew.
Like, and I can't, and it's even funny to me how many Christians actually use
that word fool with me.
It's like, but you're actually doing the thing.
New Testament in context, Jesus himself is saying not to do,
and the punishment, by the way, the second part of that verse,
and I don't want to over speak because I can't recall right now.
I'm pretty sure it's like hell, right?
We'll be in dangers of the fires of hell.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And so it's hilarious to me how much they don't take this seriously to an extent.
And again, not all Christians, obviously there's Christians living really
wonderful lives and trying to be as Christ-like as possible,
and we're hearing from probably a silent majority.
So I want to be as fair as possible.
But the fact that anyone could actually say the sinner's prayer,
or go to church and read their Bible and profess a belief in Jesus Christ,
and then not represent anything of what we're supposed to see from the
witness of the Holy Spirit that has come upon them,
it's fascinating to me because it's, it's, it's proof.
Like, I don't want to be the person that says,
if you don't act like a Christian, you're not a Christian.
But the very fact that Christians can act non-Christian is unbiblical.
Where is the new creation?
Where is the piece that surpasses it all?
Like it's, at some point you have to say,
the promises that were made to what would happen to you internally
as a believer with the witness of the Holy Spirit,
they're simply not true.
And this is something that I've been building a lot more of a case
around in my more recent videos,
and I'm going to be making a big video as kind of a challenge.
I've been told, I've, I've been trying to bring all my comments,
and I like data, and I'm gathering how many times
since I started my channel, a Christian in all sincerity has said,
I'm praying for you.
And right now, I'm somewhere around like 1300,
good meaning Christians with the witness of the Holy Spirit
have promised that they're indeed praying for me,
yet alone everyone in my life, yet alone, you know,
everything else, thousands of people.
So they're meeting all the criteria.
This is God's will.
He doesn't want me to be lost.
This is the video I'm putting out.
I'm already ruining it.
Seeing it live here on Deep Drinks.
But they're meeting all the criteria.
Two or three are gathered.
How about 2000?
Okay, that should be good for God, right?
In terms of how we should pray.
Praying in his will, because we don't want to pray outside his will.
Jesus says at least three times,
he wishes for none to be lost.
That's me.
He doesn't want me to be lost.
They're praying sincerely.
They're praying often without ceasing.
All the things they're telling me they're doing.
And here I am.
So either every single one of them is a liar,
and they're not actually praying, issue.
Or God isn't doing what he said, issue.
There is no getting around it.
Have clear verses about the power of prayer,
ask and receive.
I've put all these verses on prayer together,
making sure that you meet each of them,
because sometimes they have different requirements
for what you would expect.
But it's that simple, and here I am.
What is their answer to this?
I should be saved.
There's no getting around it.
So it's that kind of thing, again,
with the peace that Christians should have
with the witness of the Holy Spirit,
where we don't have 30,000 denominations.
You simply refute the Bible itself
when you look at the hard data.
And that's my new favorite way of
attacking some of these issues.
You just hit so many things I want to comment on.
First of all, that's amazing that you
compiling data on how many people are praying for you.
I remember I went onto a Discord once,
and it was a Christian Discord that I got invited to.
So I came along, and I said,
hey, I went into the chat, and I said,
hey, I'm going to be in the voice room,
and I'm an atheist.
If anyone wants to ask me questions
about why I don't believe in God,
you're welcome to come along.
And it turns out it was only pretty much
atheists in the room, because they all got invited
to this Christian channel as well,
and we're just waiting for a Christian to rock up.
And then this Christian lady rocks up,
and then I just kept using the Socratic method
and asking questions, and it got to the point
where they were essentially screaming at me,
and it's on my other YouTube channel somewhere.
But what's funny is, at the end,
they were saying that they'll pray for me,
and I'll know that God is real,
because of the experience that I'm going to have.
And I said, awesome, I was like, great.
And I actually said, I'm going to put this in my calendar.
I said, how long do you need for this miracle to happen?
Because she said soon, and I said,
how long do you need for this miracle to happen
that'll convince me?
Because if it does convince me, great.
If there is God, I want to know about it.
You know what I mean?
I don't want to, if the Earth is fine,
I want to know about it.
Tell me the evidence.
This is my take on all of these things.
Anyway, I put it in my calendar for a year's time.
I said, sure, I'll get a year,
a year for this miracle for this thing to happen.
It's going to happen soon, so a year's way more than it needs to be.
And I went to, and then I got this thing,
message that person and tell them if the prayer worked a year later.
Yeah.
Oh, I'm blocked.
That's a hilarious example.
But the follow through is the biggest issue.
Every altar call, here's all the promises we made
when the emotional music was playing
about what is going to happen in your life
as soon as you accept Christ to save you.
And first of all, that's already flawed.
Christ says you're going to suffer for him.
All this prosperity stuff is ridiculous.
But even inner peace and the ability to be strong in your faith
through the witness of the Holy Spirit,
there are some things that even are biblical,
that are promised in these kinds of altar call settings.
And I just like, where's the church's responsibility
of falling up with these people?
Now, some churches I know do.
There are discipleship classes.
They have check-ins where they call these people two or three times.
They don't answer.
Then they drop off at some point.
But it is absolutely astounding to me
that you can stand on a pulpit every Sunday,
make these kinds of amazing claims,
insane, miraculous level claims
about what will happen with people.
Same thing with healings, demonic possession,
all of these things.
Who follows up with that person a month later
when they're in the exact same spot?
When the person is relieved of that demon
and you see the amazing YouTube video,
where is the video a month later?
They're probably still in abject poverty
or have the same mental illness,
haven't gotten help because their actual need is medication
or whatever the case is.
And it's like, stop showing the highlight
and show the reality.
The follow-up is just horrendous.
And that's a perfect example.
A Christian just, they can say anything
and it sounds good and they even probably convince themselves.
Like, I pray and I believe God will do this,
but I have no responsibility after this.
I'm a seed planter.
I was told to, you know,
if the town doesn't accept me, move on to the next one.
And it's this entire concept of no responsibility.
And it blows my mind.
It really, really does.
Yeah.
And what you were saying,
it's funny that you said the people calling you foolish
or calling you idiots and like before what you were saying
because I remember arguing with a street preacher
who came up to me and I politely asked twice,
I'm not comfortable having this conversation.
I'm going to keep going.
And they said, just keep going.
So I took off the kid gloves and I said,
can I ask you some, can I ask you some tough questions about your faith?
Sure.
Okay.
All right.
Well, how do you reconcile slavery?
What do you mean?
And then I showed them the verses and et cetera.
And it got to the point where I said,
you know, after the big ramble about, you know,
it was for the time itself, I said,
okay, so is it a sin to own another human being as property?
And they go, oh, I'm not going to even answer such a foolish question.
And I said, oh, I said, be careful now.
I was like, if you call me a fool,
you're in danger as the fires of hell.
And they go, I didn't say you're a fool.
I said that question was foolish.
And I was like, yeah, but you kind of like,
we're kind of splitting, splitting hairs here, aren't we?
Like you're saying that what I'm saying is foolish.
I was like, you can't ask that question.
Anyway, the lovely engagement ended with me going,
look, I'm going to leave, hear your pamphlets.
I'm not going to read them.
You got to read them.
I'm not going to read them, take them.
I don't want you to have to spend more money on printing.
And as I was walking off, they're screaming,
God's got to harden your heart.
And I'm saying, he must have already done it.
So, you know, like it.
So how could you be okay with that apologetic either?
So this person was God's vessel here on earth.
They're how obviously they put you in his path.
It was on their heart to tell you the good news of Jesus Christ.
And because you didn't accept their horrible attempt,
where they obviously weren't having the words
of the Holy Spirit coming through them
as they're doing things clearly against the Bible.
Their belief is that God is now going to punish you,
not them for this interaction.
And he's going to punish you in what way,
making you less receptive to his word,
to his outreach toward you,
to the thing where he says he wants you to be safe.
Like in what world does any of that work on any level?
And yet I get the same thing daily in the comments.
Like, oh, you've been deceived.
Why are you okay with that?
Why are you okay with the fact that I,
who earnestly sought for 30 years,
have reached a point where only because of intellectual honesty
and study of the Word of God
have reached a point where I simply am not convinced.
I don't hate him.
I'm not wanting to sin.
I simply am unconvinced,
even though I tried for 30 years of my life.
You're okay with the response to that earnest sincerity
being deception, where I can't come back,
where I'll never know if I'm wrong again.
Like, make it make sense.
It's unbelievable to me that,
and there is no good response, right?
But this is also what the Bible says,
that there are people who will not be rich.
There are people that the devil gets a hold of.
That's why we need the,
it's the biggest catch-22 in the world.
We need the witness of the Holy Spirit
to be able to understand the Bible.
But we're supposed to use the Bible
to even come to an understanding of Jesus.
And then we're supposed to use the armor of God
to protect ourselves against deception.
So if you were a Christian and you fall away,
you were never really a Christian.
Otherwise, you would have had the armor of God
to protect yourself from that deception.
But if you get deceived before you can find the Holy Spirit,
before you can read the Bible,
then you have no hope of letting the Bible work in your life.
Because apparently God, who is all powerful,
can't get past what the devil is doing.
And it's like, at what point do you just step back and say,
look how ridiculous.
This doesn't work.
You can't win.
Like, and that's why Calvinists rule, right?
Because at least you admit your script, man.
Mark Martin's wax box for you.
Your suffering is going to be good stuff.
I'm going to smoke on that glory up in heaven.
It's unbelievable.
I've said that word so many times.
It truly is.
And you're asking, at the beginning of the conversation,
what's the thing?
It wasn't just slavery.
It was all of this kind of stuff put together.
You cannot excuse it all.
It simply doesn't work.
This God either is the worst God imaginable
or he's not real.
And anyone who tries to make a case for this loving father
with even just what I just said in the last minute,
let alone everything else, it's impossible.
You know, this kind of conversation
reminds me of some of the conversations I've had
when I've had a bunch of whiskey with a friend of mine.
We like, there's been times when we get so worked up
that we actually get up, stand up, and like,
pace around the room like, this is really,
we're getting like, really like passionate.
So I appreciate this.
Yeah, for sure.
This is very real.
And tomorrow we'll both get told
how we're just hurt Christians.
Yeah, that's so true.
So just before we jump into some super chats wrapping up
and I've got a couple of last questions for you,
I'll just quickly finish that,
not finish, but amend or tell the story at the start of that
because I think it's a really good question to ask
if someone does come up to you with evidence
for Jesus Christ or any type of religion.
So this lady that came up to me that had these like tough
questions, not these tough questions that call me foolish
or said my questions were foolish.
I was walking back from the shops
and I was, how do I shopping with me?
Like a border scale or something and I was walking
and she runs, I thought she was like panicking
or she needed something.
And she goes, oh, I was anorexic.
God saved me.
And then started telling me her story about like,
how she went to doctors and she couldn't get
her eating disorder corrected.
And eventually she went to a church service
and she got prayed for and she felt the power of God
and healed her and stuff.
And after I said, look,
I'm not comfortable having this conversation twice
and she kept going.
I just listened to what she had to say.
And I think this is a good way to engage with religious folks
that are proselytizing.
You let them kind of like talk for a little while
if you've got the patience for it.
And this is the question I asked.
And it was something I took out of my time doing
street epistemology or online epistemology,
the SE kind of stuff.
And I just asked her this.
I said, and I said, so I said,
you've given me all these reasons to believe
or to at least come to a church service for your God.
So for Jesus.
And I said, do you mind if I do?
I got permission again.
Do you mind if I ask you a question about that?
Sure.
I said, well, I said,
let's say that we're having this conversation about Jesus
and someone comes up to us and starts telling their story.
And it's very similar to your story.
Let's say it's almost exactly the same as your story,
but they were healed because they prayed to Buddha or Allah.
Or a Hindu God, Shiva, Krishna.
It doesn't matter.
Native American religions, paganism.
I said, would that be evidence to believe in their God?
And she was like, no, no, it wouldn't be evidence.
I'm like, okay.
I'm like, you know, she got like really flustered at this point.
And I said, okay.
So, and after she would rant about how Buddha did nothing
for nobody and everything did nothing for no body and stuff like that.
Okay.
Okay.
So I said, if it wasn't evidence for their God,
I said, why would it be evidence for your God?
And I think that was one of the, when she got like really,
really flipped and started saying like, God is, you know,
going to harden your heart and everything like that.
But I think just asking that, that simple question of like,
okay.
So the evidence that you're giving me or like, let's say
someone comes to you with the evidence from the Bible or evidence.
Okay.
Does that work for another God?
And does, and if they say yes, then you can.
So what, what's different about your God?
And if they say no, you can ask, continue to ask them questions.
Why not?
So yeah, I just, I think that's.
Yeah.
No, I agree.
I think it's fantastic.
And it actually does spark my mind back to like your original questions of
like tipping points or triggers for me.
It was an idea of comparative religion, but not just comparative
religion to see how similar all the claims of religion are,
but comparative religious experience.
Like it's like you, there is a narcissism within any religion
where you're housed in it, but specifically within Christianity,
where it's like, it has to be.
My God is the only God that can create this experience.
These psychological phenomenon that I'm experiencing is only because of the
Holy Spirit.
Like you can't get this with another God.
And when I became convinced that these other people that had religious experiences
under different religions or God concepts were as equally sincere as I was,
it immediately, if you're honest, puts you in a position where you're like,
Hey, maybe it's a human thing, you know, instead of maybe it's a God thing.
If we're all capable of having these religious experiences and a lot of people
hate like the new atheist, but it was same Harris's book, Waking Up,
that was one of the first times where I realized like,
Oh, spiritual experience is a human phenomenon and it's explained in the
brain and here's how.
And we're all just acting it out in different ways with different stories.
And it was such a huge understanding for me because that excuse of,
but not, you don't know my personal relationship with Jesus that I told you
about earlier, as like my main fallback, it gets eradicated as soon as you
understand anyone can create this with anything five year olds do it with
imaginary friends.
But then that same parent that sees their five year old do this with imaginary
friend will hear their five year old talk about what Jesus told them.
They're like, Oh, thank you, Jesus, you're revealing yourself to my kid.
And it's like, he's capable of believing anything.
Like, and we're the same as adults.
Like it just, it takes that specialness out when you really understand the human
condition.
So that's something else that I think, yeah.
And your, your question points to that for her.
And the initial response is usually very guarded, but hopefully it does make
people think it made me think eventually kind of helped me.
Deconvert.
So yeah, interesting.
Well, I've got a, I got a few, we've got a few super chats and, um, uh, and I know
that we've gone over time.
So I'm going to try and get to them quickly.
But one, one of the things I wanted to kind of bring up is I found your Goodreads
account and I'd mentioned this before we started.
And I want to just quickly compare some books.
And I want to get a, a, uh, I want to get a recommendation from you, but I don't
want like an atheist book or some book on like, I want like a novel.
I want something that I'm going to like, that's going to change my world in a way
that don't just, don't just pick like, you know, some, like the God delusion or
something.
Just give me something that, that, but I'm going to show you the list first.
Okay.
So this is our combined, um, list.
So the only two books will be agree on that a five out of five is sapiens and
stoner.
And, but, but I will say that, that stoner for me, uh, so that five star reviews
for me, I've only got like nine.
They're like, that's like, that has to change my life in some way.
Like it has to be like that important.
So I'm like, I've only got a few five star reviews.
I do a lot of five star reviews because I need it to be 10 stars.
And so if it's five, like four, wasn't good enough.
This book was a 4.2.
So it went to five.
So yeah, that's, it's hard because that's actually it's, it's kind of different
philosophies in, in how we approach it, but, but essentially I, I actually stopped
reviewing books when I started interviewing the authors of the books.
Cause it was like, I can't not give them a five.
Like thank you for coming on the channel.
But at the same time, like I, I, I, they need to be life changing for me to, to
anyway.
So animal liberation, that was like, that's a super interesting book.
I'm not, did you follow through with a, you a vegetarian or a vegan or anything
like that?
I've changed a lot of my buying habits.
I still eat animal products, which thanks for losing me half of my base just now.
I have changed a lot of comments and I think it's a bigger conversation, but that
book definitely changed.
Like where I eat, how I eat, uh, for sure, but not, not all the way through and, and
there's some, there's some reasoning, but that's another conversation.
You will.
Yeah.
And just to, just to piss off everyone on both sides as well, I was a vegetarian for
like six years and just recently, um, have started to introduce some more animals into
my diet.
And that's going to, like, I know I'm going to get, um, hate from both sides, but hey,
like you put, you know, he's, I've called you out now.
Now I have to get some hate as well.
Notes from the underground, obviously classic after afterglow of creation.
And I can't see this screen at all.
It's so far away.
So yeah, I'm counting on you to call it out.
I wish I could look at it later.
All right.
So we got, oh, can you, can you see if I zoom in?
That's a way better.
Oh yeah, a little better.
Yeah.
Okay.
So sapiens and stoner stoner was just an amazing novel.
Yep.
And if you haven't read all of John Williams stuff, uh, there's a Western that he did that
is phenomenal at butchers crossing.
They just made a movie version with Nicholas Cage, which doesn't do it justice.
It's maybe one of like the top 10 Westerns ever.
Uh, it's phenomenal.
And then if you haven't done his on Rome, it's great.
Like he just writes all over the place.
But yes.
Hey, that book was, that was an amazing book.
Notes from the underground.
Obviously, um, the two towers, you read about high than fellowship of the ring,
which I can't understand, but I love, like, I really love fellowship.
But we blew my mind.
I've never read it before.
I mainly listen to audiobooks though.
So because I can't follow very well with the text.
So I read, read or listen to an audiobook and I'll take notes and then I'll put it in
the actual physical book.
That's how I like to do things.
God bless.
12 was for life waking up.
Let us now here's something else.
You've, you've now, I probably won't have any subscribers tomorrow because people just saw
12 rules for life with five stars.
So I feel the need to, to say something.
I read that book when I was still, does it say the year on there?
I read it a couple of times because I did a review on it on my channel.
But the first time I read it was like the year it came out, which I can't remember what year
that was.
No, it doesn't say.
But anyways, the year that came out, I was like in that middle spot and I was like,
wait a second, is this, is this the answer to like still being spiritual and, and, and
allowing the power of the Bible without believing it literally.
And I, I like a lot of, you know, that first 12 rules for life instead of beyond order
where things start to fall off the rails a little bit was like peak Jordan Peterson of
like personal responsibility and like just good, you know, not getting yourself in negative
feedback loops.
And so I do hate what he's become.
I, I, I am so against what he is doing for religion by minimizing the really the, uh,
the literalness of it.
Like he is the person that takes any story and just extrapolates it into like meaning,
which you can do with anything.
Let's do it with the Greek myths.
Let's do it with the Egyptian pantheon.
Like it's, it's, it's cool in that regard, but he's giving it clout that it otherwise
doesn't deserve while ignoring the rest of history, which he didn't used to do.
So my little caveat, uh, there's a special place in my heart for early Jordan Peterson,
like maps of meaning from 96, but, uh, things have really changed since daily wire.
Oh man.
And I, I'm going to lose, let's say, Hey, I'll lose some subscribers as well.
I actually think a lot of what Jordan Peterson's used.
Well, I don't know.
I don't watch him anymore, but what he, what he said was actually really fantastic when
it came to psychology.
Some of it was actually really beneficial for me in my own life.
I've got anxiety and depression.
Yeah.
In his lane as a behavioral psychologist, things were great.
And then when he stepped out of that lane in the public,
when he started going, well, I've read 50 books on climate change and I don't know
if there's any evidence that's man made.
You're like, what the fuck, what 50 books are you reading that the client climate
scientists aren't reading?
Like I just don't, I just don't understand how you can be so bold as to say that
because you've read 50 books, you're going to disagree with the mass like overwhelming 99.9%
of like all climate scientists.
Like I just, I just don't, I didn't get that.
And also all these like anti-train stuff, anti-LGBT stuff.
It's just so disgusting.
And, um, you know, like he'll, uh, what does it, what does he do?
He goes, um, he goes into a talk show.
He'll, he'll, he'll tweet up Twitter, tweet on Twitter and say something like,
sorry, not beautiful or call someone out by name, like a, uh, like a trans folk or an LGBT,
a member of the LGBT community or, or a woman or something.
Yeah.
The, the one you're talking about is the sports illustrated, just the woman who was overweight.
And it's like his most recent, we, we don't need to talk about Jordan Peterson forever,
but just to get some of those subscribers back, his most recent tweet that I've seen was
like the, uh, the parking.
There was like a updated parking law and it had, uh, it reduced accidents.
And he was like fascist.
You're all woke death upon you.
And it's like, what?
I didn't get that.
Trust me guys.
I see the insanity there, but we don't also need to jump on board of just because
that part is wrong.
It's all wrong.
Like where's the nuance?
Same thing with Sam Harris and the rest of them.
I don't agree with everything.
That's what it was so funny to me just now to see waking up and 12 rules for life.
Both five stars for me.
Yeah.
It's hilarious.
But, um,
Yeah, same because I tried to really listen to waking up and recently I'm like,
Oh, this isn't that interesting.
Like, it's okay.
But, um, but, but back to Jordan Peterson, it's, he'll say, and not to go on, on and on,
but I just wanted to finish what I was saying.
He was, he would, you know, go on about like picking on women individually on Twitter,
like with these huge million follow audience and then someone on a talk show will be like,
how do you feel about being like the, uh, essentially the role model for in cells and
he'll start crying.
Like, well, you know, these guys just haven't, they just don't have a chance, you know,
and it's like, really?
You've got empathy for like a group of people who are like generally like misogynistic pricks
and like have this like chivalrous like worldview.
Like, and you, and then like someone who's like really hurting, you're like,
you woke left to scum.
Like I just don't understand.
Like he's a partisan hack.
I'm sorry.
But some of the stuff he used to say was really good.
Yeah.
Um, so, but we've got a lot of, a lot of books in common.
The meditations of Marcus Aurelius, um, a short history of nearly everything,
endurance, uh, why am I the Christian denialism?
But what I want to kind of how to change your mind, that's a, that's a good one.
But what I want to kind of ask you is in regards to novels, because you, you know,
you like stoner, you've already given me some, some, um, some other suggestions from him.
Are there any other books that you can suggest novels that I should read?
I, I am, it is paralysis by analysis.
I will give you a few, but you have to understand like this was my world before
like the last eight months.
This is all I did was talk books and recommend books and review books.
And, um, and I've, I've, we've talked, I've taken down that channel since then,
but, uh, I'll have to send you a few reviews of books.
Yes.
Let me give you a couple.
First of all, we just have to start at the top.
Did, have you read any Dostoevsky dance from the underground?
Okay.
Yeah.
That's right.
That was on there.
So just jump up to the brother's K, the brother's Kermazov.
You have to.
It's so, it's so big.
It's so readable.
And the tension between Ivan the atheist and Alyosha, uh, or Alyosha, the, uh,
the believer is the best rendition in fiction period of again, the tension between the
believer and the atheist.
It's perfect.
And even though I don't come out on the, the correct side, according to Dostoevsky,
like it's still phenomenal.
Um, so if you like notes from underground, I promise you will like the brother's K.
Uh, on a totally obscure one that I always recommend to people is a short stay in hell
by Stephen L. Peck, who is a Mormon in Utah that wrote this book on, um, you, you go to
hell, this one guy, he wakes up and the correct religion, I think, and that one is like
Scientology or something ridiculous.
And so he's in hell, but each hell is individual and it plays off the short story of, uh, Jorge
Luis Borges of, uh, uh, the, um, the library of Babel and it's all about time.
It's, it's the best novel that I have read.
And so it's more of a short story, but it's, it's in between a novella of deep time in
a fiction sense, getting an understanding of what hell in any capacity, even if it's
not horrendous burning forever.
Just what, what, what trillions of years would it really look like?
It blew my mind.
And actually, I remember finishing that as a Christian and thinking,
this just made the hell concept so much worse.
Cause you just say the word infinity and you don't care.
You say eternity and it doesn't, but when you really start to get an understanding of
it, I think that it changes, uh, your empathy level for how a God could do this.
Um, so in regards to what we think, um, I would suggest that one,
a short stay in hell.
Okay.
I'm going to drop it in the, um, even if I can read it.
Let me give you one more.
Um, what do you like?
Like, give me, give me other than what we saw, like, what kind of genre or, or time frame?
I mean, my favorite, my favorite books, um, let me just, I can just tell you my favorite books.
So you can, you know, like I started with ready player one to give you an idea.
Um, and I mean, I, I don't think that's amazing now, but I did at the time.
I've got nine favorites, um, the fellowship of the ring.
Wild Swans, um, which is about three daughters of China, uh,
Norwegian Wood by Mariki Hirakami, Stoner, 10 types of human,
a Kafka on the shore, ready player one.
God is not great and sapiens.
Yeah.
So if you like, uh, first of all, have you read, um,
Noah, uh, is it Noah Harari who wrote sapiens?
Have you read his second book after sapiens?
No, I haven't.
Well, you should do that.
On the list.
Um, Homo Deus, I think is the book.
That's fantastic.
It's nonfiction though.
On the fiction regard, I would do James Joyce, um, and don't go big like with Ulysses,
but do a portrait of the artist as a young man.
It is a coming of age story of a Catholic school boy that wrestles with his faith and
his call into the priesthood, uh, because the art is calling him.
And it's at odds with deep religious belief.
And there's a huge chapter on hell, which is phenomenal and it's fiction.
It's probably Joyce's best work in my opinion.
But yeah, I would, I would do that one.
This, this is what I wanted.
This is why I called you onto the show.
Cause you just, you just, you just, this is what I wanted.
Okay.
I've, I've written that down and I'm going to, uh, I'll post that in the comments as well.
Portraits of a young portrait, the portrait of an artist as a young man.
Yes.
All right.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Um, uh, that looks awesome.
I'll, I'll, so have you read any Murakami, Haruki Murakami?
I have, um, I most recently read, he has a book, he's a runner.
And despite my larger, uh, frame right now, I, I was an endurance runner for years and years.
And I'll get back there.
But he has a book on running, what I think about when I think about running.
And it's phenomenal.
And it's not just about running.
It's mainly about his time as an author.
So it goes back to his first short stories.
It goes back to when he got big.
I mean, it's, it's the writer writing about writing, which is my favorite kind of writing.
Do you like his running style?
I like it. Okay.
Um, there's things I love.
There's things I don't, you know, he's gotten a lot of flack recently for his misogyny.
I think that's maybe not understood super well in terms of like, yeah,
he maybe just doesn't write female as well.
You know, there's, there's a lot there, but, um, I like him a lot.
I think that he's interesting enough.
And after hearing him talk about his writing, all it makes you want to do is read him.
So.
Yeah.
And look, I should pull these off the bookshelf because I can't recommend them enough.
They're a little perverted some parts, but they, they, they definitely were mind blowing.
Kafka on the Shore, uh, by Murakami.
There's got magical realism in there.
It's about someone who runs away.
They're trying to escape their past.
It's really good.
And that one, that one was like, blew my mind in that, like, it's, it's a good book.
And everyone should read that.
But the one that, that like, like changed me as a person, like a novel that changed me as a person.
Weirdly enough was again, Murakami.
Norwegian Wood.
Yeah.
About teen angst, suicide, sex, love, depression, anxiety.
And it's literally, it's almost about nothing.
But when you, you read it, it's just the way that it kind of just draws you into the story.
It's incredible.
I, I, uh, yeah, Murakami favorite author.
His, it's, it's incredible.
It's like, you just read it.
It's really good.
Um, I can't recommend them enough.
Have you done other, man, I don't want to sound stupid.
It's, he's, it's Japanese, correct?
Uh, yeah.
Have you read like Mishima?
Uh, is he the one that wrote, um, No Longest Human?
I'm not sure about that one.
My favorite from his, my favorite from him is the sailor who fell from grace with the sea,
something to that extent.
Um, if you like Japanese literature, I think Mishima over, over, uh, Murakami, but something to,
okay.
No, I haven't, I'll have to check him out.
I'm not a huge like, I wasn't like into anime or anything.
But, but yeah, okay.
Looks cool.
Yeah.
It's just, it's just something that like, I really love literature.
Um, it's the best, the only thing I think the King James Bible is good for, to be honest.
Um, but not exclusively, you need, we talked about this before my last recommendation.
Here it is.
A starting entry point to get you into the Greek myths is read, um, Stephen Fry.
He did, uh, yeah.
Okay.
So I've started on the audiobook and it's something I need to really focus on because I never,
I don't understand any of the stories.
So it's been, it's, it's there.
So you could pick a particular story.
Like, you know, everyone loves Cersei by Madeleine Miller, which I love.
I mean, if you just wanted like an, like an introduction to five characters, uh, Cersei
is beautiful.
It's, it's one of the most gorgeous books I've ever read.
Madeleine Miller is a goddess.
Um, but mythos does give the entire pantheon of Greek myth all in one book.
So I'm, yeah, if I could convert you onto one thing, it would be getting into your Greek myths.
Uh, what do you think about the elite in the Odyssey?
Should I, should I?
Oh, I mean, yeah.
If you're going to say the Bible is like good in terms of a foundational text of Western canon,
then yes, you need to read, uh, you need to read Homer.
If, um, if everyone can get, get a Y in the chat that, um, Derek from Miffusion and Brandon
should meet up and talk about this, because that's like Derek, Derek's jam.
It's like everyone just spam Y if you think of the yes for Y.
Yes.
In the chat, because like that, have you seen these documentaries, Derek's
documentaries about this?
Like it's not on, not on this, uh, the day that I came out with my God in anatomy series,
he launched his three and a half hours, uh, documentary on that.
And I was like, thanks, bro.
I was going to do one chapter a week and you just did three and a half hours of the whole book.
Um, so I'm still recovering from that, but I'll check out the other.
Look, I, uh, I, I mean, we got, we're getting a bunch of, um, yeses, um, in the chat.
Um, we, that all learned Hebrew.
Thanks, Kip.
Um, Kip does a stream learning Hebrew.
I'm not reading Hebrew.
Sorry.
Um, but one of the things that I will say is, uh, about Derek.
Is, uh, and, and this is, I won't mention names, but he's had like prominent Bible scholars
reach out to him and be like, your documentaries are changing my perspective about the influence on,
on, uh, on literature on Christian writings that maybe they, they do have a huge influence
from, um, like, like I'm talking about stories copied and things like that.
Like, so it's, it's not something to be just like, um, laughed off, like the zeitgeist movie or
whatever. It's like some of the stuff is like pretty, pretty profound.
Okay. Well, let me just end on, on one last question that I ask everyone before we jump
into the super chats and thank you for staying for a little bit over time.
But this is a question I like to ask people.
What is the most plausibly true religion that you don't believe in?
Plausibly true is different than how I normally think of this as like, what is the most beneficial
if we had to choose one?
Plausible is very different.
Um, jeez.
That's so hard because I find so many gaps in all of the man made myths that we have.
Honestly, there are parts of, and this is, this is where there might be some pushback
because you could argue it's as much a philosophy as it is a religion.
There are aspects of Buddhism that I think if you were just trying to make a case for like,
you, you have a, a figurehead that is living a life in a certain capacity that is, you know,
giving enlightened truth and, and some precise attitudes and actions to follow to reach the
same kind of thing. Like that to me is better than a God who exists outside of space and time,
you know, in terms of plausibility, but that doesn't, I don't know.
They're all impossible. That's the problem. Give me a good one.
I, I refuse to answer this question.
I mean, most people, what is the most plausible one? I think you don't believe, well, it's great
because Christians can ask, answer it, right? Anyone can answer it. Like that's, that's the
beautiful. I can tell you what most people choose. What's, what are most people choose?
Most people choose Buddhism because it's non-theistic. So I started to say like,
you can't, you can't try Buddhism. And that's where I went, right?
Yeah.
They're all, they all have to do with that.
They're all, they all.
I can tell you what Matt De La Huntis is.
What?
I can tell you what Matt De La Huntis is.
What is it?
He came on. Judaism.
You know what? That's a fantastic answer. And so I'm going to steal it, but I'll,
I'll expand before I even hear what his answer was. It's Judaism because you're not trying to
marry two exclusive things together. It's Judaism because you can just go with God's
character as described in one section of the Bible and you don't have to agree with it. And
yes, it even comes off as evil, but plausible doesn't mean the kind of God you would want
to worship. So yeah, I totally understand that answer. That's great thinking. Of course, Matt
got there. I really liked that answer.
I think, I think I change my answer all the time, but something to do with
like the Baha faith or Sikhs, or not Sikhs, isn't it? It's not Sikhs. It's
Jains who like,
I was going to say, Jainism is my, that's what I wanted to answer for most beneficial.
Like if we had to choose a religion to rule the world, I don't think it's plausible. I mean,
first of all, we cannot all walk around with a broom everywhere we go, making sure to push every
ant out of the way, you know, to cause no harm. But the new Yeezys will come out with like a little
swastika and then like little like jets that push air out the front. That's like move all the,
yeah. So yeah, you're right. We've, we've caught up that religion. No, it's, yeah. I mean, I would
say that's, if I had to choose a religion to be like, Hey, you all need something to believe in,
you need something to ground your morality and Jainism, but plausibility, they all fail. They all
fail. Yeah, it's because you're a left walkism. Okay, some super chats. We actually have some
non super chats as well. People were asking the chat before, why don't I ask all questions is
because we're already over time and you know, sometimes we can't even get to all the super
chats. So thank you for saying back, but Brandon's channel has really helped me out. Thanks, man.
There's a lot of chats like this isn't, this isn't a super chat, but just to start us off.
Michael Beverly Brandon is the guy that got me started on this YouTube journey. He encouraged
me to get serious. Love you brother. You mean a lot to me. Anyway, I've got to run. I'll have to
watch later. Much love. Yeah, thanks, Michael. Michael has, I've only been able to check out
some of his channel. He's just getting started show him some love as well, but I've been really
impressed with his approach on stuff. So absolutely. Got no problem endorsing that.
We need to do it. We should, we do a trio stream one time with like the three beads,
because his beard is just like, I'll lose, but his beard is just fantastic.
I'll lose soon too. I've got a business trip coming up. I got to take this down.
Oh, no, no.
Claude Simeon. Thank you for the super chat. Gents, I love watching both your streams and
vids. Thank you very much. Critical faculty, $5. Just a good day from my good buddy,
for my good buddy Dave and his guest, Brandon, and keep up the good work,
lads. Thank you, Hannie from Critical Faculty. I really appreciate it. His channel is awesome as
well. Nitty, I love this episode of Deep Shift. As always, keep drinking. And then we've actually
got some questions. Mine drinks. Yeah. Yeah. Mine drinks. Very good. So Aaron Carlson asked,
thank you for the super chat. Most miracles I saw in church could be classified as BS.
The one I personally saw that I still cannot explain doesn't change my conclusion now.
Either of you have a similar experiences. I don't see the text in front of me,
so I'd want to reread it. Is he saying that he believes that was still a miracle? He just can't
explain it or he doesn't believe anymore, but that's the one thing that still kind of bugs him.
The one that I personally saw, I still cannot explain. But it doesn't change his opinion,
even though he can't explain it. So he's asking, essentially, have we had experiences where we've
seen miracles? I personally have been able to go back in the rolodex of my mind as unbiased as I
can and say, what is the human condition at play here? And for almost all of them, I think for all
of them, I've been able to explain what was really going on. And that would be a longer
conversation. So I guess my answer is no. There's not still one thing where all of the healings that
I saw were unverifiable. It was someone's wrist hurt and then it didn't. I've been able to write
that stuff off. There's nothing that I have seen. There were some demonic events that took
me a long time before I finally came what I had considered demonic events. Before I was able to
say that was just me. I was so indoctrinated with this. My mother read the book of martyrs to me
at night for bedtime stories of these people that were possessed and died for Christ and had
demons attacking them in the night and breaking their arm and things like this. It was so ingrained
in my psyche that of course I had those experiences when I was scared and alone in the dark. But yeah,
I've been able to from a brain level and a psychology level be able to understand what was
really at play for all of those in my life personally speaking. Yeah, I'm the same in that.
I remember at a youth camp looking at a friend convulsing on the floor and putting his arms
in the shape of a cross and saying that he had visions afterwards and for hours everyone laughing
and falling over in the spirit. I remember saying to myself I can never deny this. I can never deny
what I'm seeing here and I just don't land at the same conclusion of what was happening there.
In fact, last week I mentioned seeing one of my friends, Carmen, fall over in the spirit,
pass out, wake up and for the first time in 15 years she came over to her house to catch up
the other day and I asked her about it and she said that she thinks that it was she's not a
Christian anymore. She's an atheist and she says that she's not something that you get so
worked up in the emotions that you want something to be so true and she passed out like someone
would at a Beatles concert. Yeah, exactly. It's all explainable human even just part of the human
experience. It's a weirder part. It's a more seldom part and it takes certain things to get there
but you can get there in a lot of different ways. There are people that when the music plays just
right. There are people that do a certain drug. There are people that have a certain kind of
orgasmic experience. There's all kinds of things that get our brain to the same thing and they've
been able to see that in FRMI machines and all kinds of stuff that we're beginning to be even
with NDE's. We're beginning to be able to explain this stuff from a neuroscience level that takes
the gap out that we previously had to fill with God or spiritual experience. I know some people
really like they still don't have an answer and I appreciate his honesty to be like, I can't explain
it but I have enough evidence against it on the contrary. Yeah, for sure. Jason Rowlands,
thank you for the five dollar super chat. Is there a specific reason why Jesus couldn't come down
once a year and be crucified by angels in front of crowds of different parts of the world?
Yeah, I like Jason. He's a good commenter. He's a supporter of my channel so Jason thinks we're
being here and supporting Dave as well. No, there's not a reason. This is what David and I were
talking about earlier. There's no good reason that this God cannot continue to reveal himself.
If he wanted to, everyone could have seen his one crucifixion. We could all be born with that
memory. He could have developed the first videotape. There are so many silly but thousands of answers
that if you're really talking about a supernatural God that did all these supernatural things,
why do we have to even put him in a box where we would need him to physically show up in all
different generations and do the same thing? Why was the one time not self-evident for everyone?
It's so amazing to me the excuses we come up with for him. Not that you were doing that, Jason,
just that it's unnecessary. This is an all-powerful God. We could be born with that image burned into
our mind before anyone had to tell us about it. It's amazing. I like what I said to Michael Jones.
I've been spying across here. I said, oh, man, you and God just make it way too complicated.
Well, my face is really red. I just looked at myself in the mirror. This alcohol is really
affecting me. I've got to do a full day of work after this. Well, half a day of work after this.
You're an Aussie. You should be just fine.
Exactly. Thank you so much, Brennan, for coming on. This has been an absolute pleasure.
Everyone, go check out MindShift on YouTube. I'll link it in the description,
in the chat right now. It is a wonderful channel. I really mean that. Fantastic. When you go over
there, leave a little drink emoji of your choice, margarita, coffee, scotch, or whatever. He knows
you've come from deep drinks. Thank you so much, Brennan, for coming on. It's been an absolute
pleasure. Is there anything you'd like to say before we finish off the interview?
No, man. I'm really happy to be here. I've done a couple of things like this now. This was the
most chill, but also still some really good, deep conversations. I feel like I made a friend
just really enjoyed hanging out with you, for real. Just great. Thanks for having me.
I'm going to hold you to that. I'm coming over to eat spaghetti and play Mario Kart at your house.
That's what I do with my friends. That sounds good. I'll see you everyone later. Bye.
Bye.
