I guess today are two fine gentlemen who invited me onto their podcast of The Divide and we
had a conversation about the second coming of Jesus and how I think it didn't happen.
So today I'd like to welcome the two hosts of The Divide, Drew, the skeptic and Bill,
the Christian, which is I guess how they introduce themselves online.
So welcome guys to the Deep Drinks podcast.
Thank you.
Thanks, David.
Well, I wanted to quickly give an introduction about who you guys are, but I thought it's
best for you guys to just describe who you guys are.
So could you just take a couple minutes to describe who you are and how you started the
podcast and I know Bill, you have actually a background in Greek or in the classics.
So if you could just touch on the relevant fields.
Yeah, I studied classics, so classical languages, which is always bad when you have to explain
what it is you studied after you give the name of it.
But what that means is not that I studied Mark Twain, but that I studied the Greeks and
Romans and the languages of Greek, Latin and Hebrew as well.
And but that does not mean I'm some great scholar of these things.
But yes, I did study them and I teach classics and have taught for many years and but not,
you know, so much Bible.
And I was an atheist growing up and then converted to Christianity and university.
And just take all that and I'm pretty much the opposite.
I grew up Christian, grew up in the church, have since, you know, started, well, it's
been almost a lifelong process of skepticism creeping in.
But but I actually measured in finance and I I'm more of an armchair philosopher.
So Bill is definitely the fact checker on our podcast and I I just bring a lot of questions
and just interest.
I've always been interested in philosophy and in religion and big questions.
And so that's pretty much what we do.
We usually have one one guest, either a Christian or an atheist or sometimes even someone.
We've had Muslims, rabbis, you know, people of other religions as well.
And we've had all different kinds of atheists and skeptics, I guess.
So we just typically have have a conversation much much like the one we're about to have,
I guess.
Yeah, for sure.
And so your podcast is called The Divide and the link is in the description, you guys
can check it out.
You got a lot of great episodes and this is actually a part two of an episode that we
have done.
So if you haven't watched part one first go check out part one because you might be a
bit lost.
But this is like kind of a continuation on the the kind of questions that we were talking
about on that podcast.
Yeah.
So lastly, what are we drinking today?
We're all drinking something different.
For me, it's 9 a.m.
So I've got myself a coffee.
Oh, Bill, you get yourself a coffee as well.
Got the flat weight in honour of the Australians.
Well, it is five o'clock somewhere in the world.
In fact, here in Nashville, this is a home style.
It's the type of beer that is made locally here by a brewery called Bearded Iris.
So if you're ever in Nashville, check them out.
They do some good work.
Oh, nice.
What type of beer is it if you're only asking?
It's an IPA.
It's actually, most of their IPAs are the unfiltered type or hazy.
This one's just they're kind of flagship.
So it's kind of mild, but they do some flavorful stuff.
Two types of people in the world drew those that drink IPAs and the smart people.
Oh.
I love that.
I didn't think it was going to go down that way, Bill, let's talk.
You're not a good friend, so I'm just rubbing it up.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Actually, I want to ask you guys before we jump into the topic is what are some of your
have you guys had any like really heated conversations heated in a good way?
I don't mean like you end up throwing hands at the end of it, but like what are some great
conversations that you guys have had that you've really like bumped heads on and like
kind of wrestled it out on the podcast?
Oh, man.
I have to think about that.
I don't know that I could I could I don't know that we've ever had like a heated discussion
or anything like that.
I thought our I thought our first, you know, part one of this got got pretty intense.
I mean, hopefully we'll that's true.
We'll find out answers this time.
But yeah, that's true.
Yeah.
Well, I mean, he did.
Yeah.
He did, I suppose can be interpreted differently.
I mean, we've talked about everything for so many years, and there's always been a really
good friendship between us.
And so I think we've gone all around.
But we also really like to follow as far as we can know and as far as we can think sort
of and are pretty give each other a lot of space, you know, to give their each other's
opinions and try and work with them.
And sometimes when I'm working on, you know, Drew and I occasionally will counsel one another
on how to deal with our respective communities.
That's right.
You can usually predict what the other one is going to say.
Yes.
We've been on both sides of the argument and also like, yeah, it's built, Bill makes
a very good point.
I typically he'll be the one telling the Christians, since he is one of them, hey, maybe don't
go down that road of argument, you know, you're going to get shut down or, you know, it's
he just, you know, tends to rain in the, as I would call it, the crazy I try to do that
for the skeptic side, too, I know there's a lot of bad arguments out there on my side
of the coin.
Oh, yeah, there's, there's definitely, oh, you go from one from the frying pan into
the fire, whether they say it's just this chaos on either side of every perspective.
So last time we spoke about the second coming of Jesus, and I guess it kind of started because
I did that.
I did an episode on myth vision where I talked about how, for me, I think it's blatantly
obvious that Matthew, Luke and Mark, Jesus is talking to his disciples, and he mentions
that the second coming of Jesus and a bunch of other things are going to happen within
a generation.
And we kind of had a back and forth on that.
What I have done is I've been learning a bit of animation for a documentary that I'm working
on with deep drinks.
And so I thought it'd be a great opportunity to kind of, I've been testing out some of
my animation skills on, for YouTube short.
So I actually created a YouTube short on this very subject.
It's very click baity.
So you have to forgive me for that.
And it's very provocative in a way like I make it, I try and to spark conversation in
the, in the description, but it gives a good overview of my position.
So I think I'll just show that and let me know if you guys can hear it.
Jesus was supposed to have returned by approximately 60 CE.
Well, that's at least what he told his disciples.
In Matthew, we find Jesus warning his disciples about future events, wars, earthquakes, famines,
false prophets, the sun and the moon will be darkened, stars will fall from the sky.
Then bam, just as things are falling apart, Jesus returns on the clouds with an army of
angels at the sound of a loud trumpet call.
When the disciples asked him, when will this happen?
Jesus tells them, truly, I tell you, this generation will certainly not pass away.
Until all these things have happened.
The same story is repeated two more times in Mark and Luke.
This is huge because if Jesus is telling the truth, he should have returned 2000 years
ago.
Did you know Jesus?
Yeah.
So I guess that's the great place to start because that's, I guess, my perspective.
I don't know, Drew, how you feel about, about that if you're on the same kind of page and
Bill as a Christian, last time we had this conversation, you definitely disagreed with
that perspective.
I guess, let's, let's, I guess, go around, Drew, first, I guess, what do you think about
that?
Are you in agreement with that in general?
In general?
Yeah.
So without completely summarizing last time, this is a good, this is a good way to sort
of like just pick up where we left off, I think.
I was kind of, you know, my perspective when we were talking about this before was that
for the most part, agree that my understanding is this is kind of where historical Jesus
scholarship has come down, that he was an apocalyptic preacher who thought that he was
predicting or, you know, that he was warning, repent the end is near.
And you know, this reading of this text would be part of that from a historical perspective.
Obviously, it's not going to be the Christian perspective because Jesus can't be wrong,
right?
So this, you know, this to me is sort of an unsurprising conclusion historically, but
very surprising, or it would have been very surprising to me as a Christian growing up.
But I do think that, you know, what he meant was, you know, a generation and he met 40
years.
You know, the end, the, you know, the culmination of God's plan with him, you know, leading
the charge.
And so I don't think that any of these things were talking about other events that were
also big cataclysmic things like the temple and, you know, being destroyed or whatever.
And I'm open to changing my mind on any of that because I'm certainly not a historian,
but I think that the sort of the scholarship, as I understand it, is in line with that.
And this is funny because me, Drew, and myself, we're not, we don't, we just have to point
to scholarship.
We're like, point, like, this is what scholarship says.
And I'm waiting for Bill to come in and be like, well, in the Greek, it's said.
So really the scholars, you know, are just looking at grains of sand, right?
So all the most scholars aren't looking at everything.
They're looking at very, very tiny things.
So they have to invoke the other scholars who are doing the work in that particular area.
So really, I guess it really doesn't matter much whether you're, well, luckily they all
disagree.
So this won't be a short podcast.
I was just going to say, I was just going to say that, that when I was in university,
my advisor was sat on the Jesus seminar, which was very famous in the, in, in previous decades
I'll say, and the, and their view that the common, the more common view among the Jesus
seminar people and certainly among my advisor was not the, quite the Jewish apocalyptic
prophet view.
Even though that's probably the majority sort of scholarship view, I agree.
But it was not in that group.
And it wasn't the sort of the exposure I had myself when I was studying, even though I
was in classics.
I had an advisor who was a New Testament expert and, and so, and a very good one.
But their, their view tended to be more of what's called the, I guess I'll just say the
Jean Dominic cross and view, you know, which is, is sort of like, if you just, if you think
of how you get to the Jewish apocalyptic prophet view, right, is you, you go away from just
all the gospels as if they have equal value, every story is equal value and you go into
what's the first gospel, the earliest gospel mark or any other sources we can demonstrate
that probably are behind the gospels like Q or M or L, if you familiar with those.
And then we look at that bottom layer, but what the, what the, what Crossen and these
guys did is they were like, yeah, but even Q has layers and you go to the earliest layers
of the, of the earliest layers, and then you find out Jesus just loved everybody down
the rabbit hole.
I do want to ask what you think, Bill, but it reminds me of Dr. Matt Munger was coming
on and he was saying that he lives in, oh my gosh, I'm forgetting where he lives Oslo
where's Oslo?
It's Norway.
Norway.
Yeah.
Norway.
I should know that I'm doing a whole anyway.
I'm Norwegian.
That's how I know.
Okay.
There we go.
Um, and, um, so he was saying that if I came to a, you know, there and, and everyone was
speaking Norwegian, uh, and he could interpret for me.
He could tell me what was being said, um, but he, he wouldn't be translating.
He'd be interpreting.
So like, say we're sitting in a room and someone's speaking and he's just like whispering
in my ear.
Oh, they're saying this, they're saying this, they're saying this, it's different from
translating.
It's interpreting.
And because the, the gospel traditions were, um, oral traditions at least first because
they weren't written for so long and then written in a different language, he makes
the argument that essentially it's interpretation.
It's not necessarily translation because we don't have like got the gospels in our
roommate or anything like that.
So I could see an argument being made that maybe the original, um, oral tradition was
translated wrong and the word generation shouldn't be in there at all.
And then you're dealing with like the inherency of scripture and scripture, uh, um, uh, I've
got what it is, but where the word is the perfect word of God and everything.
But before we jump into all that, uh, Bill, what do you, God, breathed and useful for
teaching scripture refers to itself.
Yeah.
But then you have to, you go like, well, at the time, what was scripture?
You know, like, like, cause that's the perspective I used to hold here.
Sure.
But Bill, you've, you've actually responded in an email with it.
I guess a large kind of your position, that's kind of a bit of a lot.
Yeah.
I tried to give a little bullet point just to you guys so you could have something to
think about ahead of time.
And, uh, and yeah, uh, first of all, I do think it's really good always to see these
kind of minutia questions in a larger context, which you already have done, which is that
you have this kind of the, probably the dominant scholarly view is the Albert Schweitzer view,
you know, which if you were to buy an or a Bart Ehrman book, you would more or less
get that view.
And that is a really common view, probably the majority opinion, even in the Christian
world where you have like scholars like NT Wright, who are more on the conservative evangelical
side of the Christian scholarship, even someone like him would still agree with much of Albert
Schweitzer view, uh, and, and even push against some aspects of the traditional Christian
view.
So it's not, and of course there's other Christian scholars like Dale Allison and stuff.
So it's not, uh, so it's my point is it's really worth the conversation for everybody,
kind of regardless of their position, uh, and these verses sort of play into which particular
view someone adopts and why and so on.
But what, uh, what we, what I thought we sort of agreed on last time, or at least I agree
with this, that if you just took this verse from Matthew 24, it's also in Mark and it's,
it's in all the, all of it discourse scenes, uh, uh, on men, I say to you, this generation
won't pass away to all things people, uh, accomplish, um, that, uh, that if you just
look at that verse seen on a page all by itself, it's, it's plainly means that Jesus
is saying, uh, before his contemporaries die, uh, these things are going to happen.
You know, I mean, that's just sort of like obvious what that means if you just looked
at it.
Uh, but what I tried to say last time is there are times where the Bible, if you just take
a verse out, people look at it, they think they know what it means.
I wouldn't say this is a really common, but it's certainly not unheard of, uh, like he,
who, he was without sin, let him cast the first stone.
People quote this verse all the time.
They think it's obvious what it means, but actually if you go read the story, it's not
the way most people, the meaning of it is not quite the way they understand it.
So this is, so I would say only that, uh, you have to at least check what, when you
see something, you think the meaning, meaning is plain, you have to at least check to make
sure, Hey, if I started Matthew from the beginning of the book and read the whole gospel and
I got to Matthew 24, would I still think this is the plain meaning?
And my argument would be no, I don't think someone would, if they did that and, uh, what
I, uh, uh, I think I sent this was that I said, uh, if you take say the first English
editions of the Bible, right, English translation is very stubborn, the translations have been
very stubborn.
People usually don't like big, big changes.
So if you go back to the Wycliffe version and you look up in, in that Bible and read
it, Matthew 24 is going to say basically what you're used to seeing.
But if you read his whole, the, the team of the Wycliffe translators basically that did
that and you got, you read other passages in that translation, it would be really clear
that the word generation doesn't quite always mean what we give them, what meaning we give
to it.
We assume in our world, like if you're not in my generation, it means you're not a part
of the contemporaries I grew up with, right?
It has a very narrow sort of obvious meaning, uh, and so we just assume that's what Matthew
must be talking about.
But in Wycliffe's translation, Jacob is instructed to go back to, uh, from Syria to quote his
generation and quote, but it's not talking about him going to his contemporaries like
some diff, you know, that it clearly, it clearly just means to go back to his family who are
down, you know, south and anyone could read that and see that's the plain meaning in Genesis
that there the word generation clearly just means his family.
The problem is we don't have that meaning anymore.
We don't, the word generation, if you look it up in the dictionary, no longer carries
both of those meanings.
It used to, it used to be able to mean family.
It could also mean, uh, uh, your contemporaries.
It had just two different connotations and it would depend on the context that would
decide which the meaning, which meaning you have.
So, uh, so that would just be an example where, again, you think something just plainly means
what it says, but actually in the English Bible translation tradition, it, it doesn't
always plainly mean that sometimes you have to actually look at the context and make a
decision of what, what the word means.
And, uh, so I, I think I touched on briefly the last time we talked that the word, uh,
Yeneah, which is this word here, Yeneah, it's like our word generation.
It's similar with the G, it starts with a G, Jeneah, I guess you would say.
So this word in Greek, okay, this much I can say very, very confidently because I've been
doing a lot of Greek for a few decades now, you know, this word is like the word generation
used to be in this sense that sometimes it means your contemporaries, other times its
connotation is that it refers to someone's family, uh, or more broad, it can even be broader
than that.
In fact, the word originally just meant birth and then it came to mean not only the active
birth, you know, the, the, the act of generating something, but it could also mean the thing
generated the offspring, the child.
And then later it got used chronometrically.
So you could use births to mark out periods of history.
So like at the beginning of Matthew, it talks about 14 births in Greek, you would, you would
hear the idea of births.
There's 14 births from Abraham to David.
So it's clearly being used with a temporal meaning, right, 14, what we call generations,
but it's just in, in, to a Greek to hear the word, it's just the word, yeneia, yeneia
is how I pronounce it.
So yeneia, and you would have to decide in the context what, what exactly it means there.
And my pair, just to give you a simple example in English of how this works, okay.
Think of the word family.
If we say, Hey, we've decided that, um, that, uh, that our family is going to all watch
the Super Bowl together this Sunday.
We've called grandpa and grandma and we're all going to get together and watch the Super
Bowl together.
And we're going to eat chili, you know, you would know in that context that the word family
means a bunch of people who are, who, who are born of the same, you know, ancestry or
whatever, uh, who are all living at the same time, but that's implied in the use of the
word family in that sentence that everybody is living at the same time.
And it would be just intuitive.
You would just know that's what it means.
But if somebody said, you know, our family has suffered great tragedies ever since we
arrived in this country in the early or in the late 1800s, well, if you said that sentence,
which is perfectly normal English, you would immediately know that now the word family
isn't just a bunch of people who are living at the same time, who are blood related, but
they're blood related across a very long period of time with multiple generations, some of
whom are no longer living.
So I would say just as the word family gets used with those different connotations and
you into it, the meaning, I think that's what the word does in Greek.
So when you're reading, uh, if, if you were reading Josephus, okay, the vast majority
of time that Josephus uses this word, he does not use it with the temporal connotation.
He doesn't use it to mean like a group of contemporaries, okay?
He uses it to mean simply, uh, uh, by the way, when it's used, when it is being used
of contemporaries, it still implies that they're born of the same stock.
So it's, it's more like a family who's all got the same parent who are living at the
same time.
That's what the word means, uh, which is a little bit different from the way we use
the word generation where our generation doesn't, doesn't have to be all like have the same
parent or grand, great, great, great, great, great, uh, so that's different because in
Greek it does have to have the same parent in order for you to use the word.
So, uh, so Josephus uses it.
He's a contemporary of the gospel writers.
He rarely uses it to mean generation in the sense of group of contemporaries, okay?
And you could just simply, anyone could go do their own research and look that up if they
wanted to.
When Justin Marder uses the word, he's an early church father and he's talking about
one of the passages in Matthew.
He's a, by the way, he's mid-second century if you want to date him, okay?
So he's talking about, uh, in a dialogue with Trifo, who's a Jew, he uses this word in relation
to a verse in Matthew chapter 12 where it talks about this genea, this generation.
And he uses it again, a-temporally.
He doesn't use it in the sense of a group of people who are all living at the same time.
He says, Trifo, these are your genea, the people back in Matthew 12.
But of course, he's 100 years removed from those people, but he's telling Trifo they're
your people is what he means, but he uses the word genea and yet they're clearly it's
not.
So all, all that is just to say, just to look at a linguistic level, the word doesn't settle
it.
It could be this, it could be that.
And so we have to go in and look at sort of how, how is the word used in, in Matthew.
And the majority of scholars who have, who have, uh, commented on the passage and commentaries
or have translated it, I would say the majority of them read the references in the synoptic
gospels to this word as implying the contemporaries of Jesus, right?
That's why you get so many of the English translations, even though there's some foot
notes that sometimes will tell you it can mean something else.
But Jen, but like, uh, but generally that's what you're going to see.
And that's there.
That's is the more common view.
Now, I would also say you can check me on this.
You rarely will find anyone to provide an argument for that.
They just kind of declare it.
Okay.
Uh, and that's fine.
Maybe they're right, but you, you have to provide an argument for that to make the case
if you're going to take that position.
And as particularly since Justin Marder, who was one of the earliest church fathers didn't
read it that way.
So you, you kind of have to at least do your homework and make sure you're reading it correctly.
Uh, and message specifically, or just the word referred to the reference in Matthew
12, where it says, uh, this generation, uh, the judgment will be more tolerable for like
a Nineveh than this, than for this generation.
He's, he's referencing that passage where it uses the same expression, this generation,
this genia, but he uses it atemporally, not to refer to the contemporaries.
Now, what you have to do then, so this is just my suggestion, and then you can, I would
tell you what I would do from here is I would say, okay, well, let's start with Matthew
and let's kind of go through and see like, how was the word used?
What does it mean?
And so on.
And we're not going to sit and go through the whole book, but I would reference just
two passages that I, that really influence me in the way I read it.
The first is in Matthew 17, where, uh, it's right after the mount of transfiguration and
the Jesus, you know, comes down from the mountain and there's the father who has a son who seems,
you know, sort of epileptic, he has seizures and stuff, but he's possessed with a demon.
And Jesus, uh, they, the father tells him that his disciples, Jesus's disciples couldn't
cast out the demon.
And so Jesus makes a comment.
He says that this genea is twisted and faithless, but in, in doing that, he's actually quoting
a line from Deuteronomy 32.
That's an expression in Deuteronomy 32, which is the famous last comments, uh, from Moses
to Israel right before they entered into the promise land and right before he died.
And if you go back and read Deuteronomy 32, where this language is used of genea, it's
the same word in the Greek, the Hebrew word is door, but anyway, there it seems really
clear that the word is being used of multiple generations of Israelites.
It's just referring to the whole family of the Israelites and their persistent rebellion
across multiple generations.
So if Deuteronomy 32 is being referred to, then it would seem like Jesus is, is using
his understanding of this language is coming out of Deuteronomy 32, not just from say Greek,
Greek grammar or whatever, or Hebrew grammar.
It's coming out of actually a passage, uh, and that passage does not use the word temporally.
It's using it of Israel across multiple generations.
Uh, then you have the issue of, um, you have the issue of Matthew 23.
Now Matthew 23 is a little different in that you've got the passage that actually triggers
our story.
You know, Matthew 24 is a long sermon or discourse.
They call it the all of the discourse and it's a response to the disciples questions.
But why were the disciples even asking these questions?
Because of what is talked about in Matthew 23, it leads into their questions.
Okay.
So you, in other words, you can't separate Matthew 23 and 24.
And in Matthew 23, you have, um, the, what to me seems the most helpful of all the discussions
about this word because Jesus talks about how the judgment is going to fall upon this
genea, but then he also says it will fall upon you.
And when he explains, this is, if you're wondering what the passage is, it's Matthew
23 versus 30, uh, around verse 33 or so into verse 36.
If you, uh, I don't know if you guys have a, uh, a text or something, you can look at
it, but it's Matthew 23 and verse, uh, 35 is the key verse here where Jesus says,
the reason that the judgment is going to fall upon you.
Now he's just announced Pharisees.
Oh, this is perfect.
Great.
So it's very small print, but anyway, I can, I'll just quote it.
Yeah, it's fine.
But, uh, you can see, oh yeah, very, very good.
So you can see there in verse 35 where he's saying, uh, it'll come upon all the
righteous below, uh, the judgment is going to come upon you.
Uh, the upon you is just a little bit earlier than there.
And, uh, the re, this is in, um, yeah, there you go.
The, uh, so that, uh, all the righteous blood will, will be shed on the earth from
the blood of Abel to the blood of Zachariah, son of Barakiah, whom you murdered
between the, the, uh, temple and the altar on men.
I say to you, uh, all this will come on this genia.
Now here's what's interesting.
The, where he says that this, uh, judgment will come upon, uh, you upon this genia.
He says the reason is because you, you see that in verse 35, you murdered Zachariah.
You see that line there?
You don't have it highlighted, but you see that's right above whom you murdered.
But clearly Jesus's contemporaries did not murder Zachariah.
He was, he lived centuries, centuries before this time.
So Jesus is talking to quote this genia saying that the judgment is going to fall
upon this genia, right?
But you'll notice it says in verse 35 at the beginning, that's equated to upon
you will come all the righteous blood.
So upon you is the same as this genia.
And why is it?
Well, it's because they've actually, he's just said that he's going to send future
apostles and prophets to them and they're going to kill them.
But he says it's because you murdered Zachariah, but Zachariah lived centuries before.
So I don't want to keep repeating it, but you can see in the context, he's not thinking
of this genia as just the people standing in front of him because he's describing actions
carried out by their ancestors hundreds of years prior to this.
And yet he's saying, and yet he's saying, you did it, you did it.
You, this genia did it.
Oh, see, it doesn't seem like you could say there that it's strictly like his
contemporaries, it doesn't work.
So putting the pieces together then would, would the contention be that he was talking
about the people of the Jews, the people of Israel?
The, yes, whenever he's referring to their genia in the Synoptic Gospels, it's always
pejorative.
It's always accompanied with some sort of epithet like you twist, you, you, you're
equal generation.
Yeah.
Twisted, wicked, adulterous, uh, genia, meaning the family of the brood, the brood.
Yeah.
Is this why people say, uh, Matthew is a bit anti-Semitic or her people think that
that's a pejorative directed at the Jews themselves?
Yes, yes, yeah, it is.
And by the way, then just for clarity, just the next thing he said in that passage is
where he weeps over Jerusalem, you know, and he says, I, how often I wanted to gather your
children, you see how it's connected to genia.
There, genia means offspring, family, nation.
It can mean nation, but really it means the brood of, of whoever's born of a common
stock and like a hen gathers her brood under her wings.
That's how I wanted to treat you, but you rejected me, you know, and then the disciples
after that, because he pronounces, you know, the judgment on the city and then the
disciples respond asking questions.
So go ahead, you can respond to that.
And then I have one or two other reasons why I think it doesn't work.
The other reason, go ahead.
Well, I was just going to mention last time, if, if, if someone hasn't been naughty and
haven't, hasn't watched the first one, you mentioned that for you, this is like,
as a Christian, this is a big deal.
You can't just kind of hand wave away.
It's like if we, it's like if a physicist discovered that the, the cosmic
work or background radiation didn't exist or something.
It's like, well, well, well, well, let's check the maths.
You know, like, it's like, it's important because there's a lot that like hinge on
that one idea concept.
So it's very important where for Drew and I, we just go, yeah, whatever.
Yeah.
But for a Christian, this is something that even if the Scholar consensus points
overwhelming majority in one direction, it's like, well, like, let's, let's try
and make this work.
And I appreciate that you kind of, you kind of set it like that.
Yeah.
Because that's the reality.
A Christian is going to make a lot of effort.
And of course, most of the Christian, there's many different ways Christians
have explained this.
And actually, a lot of ways are not ways, I think, are very persuasive.
And a lot of them just assume the meaning of the word is Jesus' contemporaries and
so on.
And they have other ways of understanding it.
The early church fathers had a very common way of understanding it.
And I'm not convinced that that's the right way to read it, but they did have
other ways to understand it.
So it's not like if I'm wrong, it means, you know, the whole faith crumbles per se.
I just meant that, that it is the case that Christians blew that.
By the way, critical scholars, just to be clear, they have a lot invested in the sort
of Schweitzer view, right?
That's the framework of the dominant or the majority, I should say, view of a lot of
scholars.
And those scholars who hold that view, not all scholars do, those scholars who hold
that view, I would say they also, this verse is very, very important to their view.
There's a couple of verses that seem very strongly in their favor.
And I would just suggest that they might be inclined to fight a little bit, too,
knowing that it kind of threatens the whole framework they're working with,
which is a kind of a different, you know, from the traditional way of reading the
Gospels historically within the church, you know.
So I do think there's times where it kind of seeps out that actually both sides are sort
of fighting for their ground.
I think for you and Drew, it's not, you know, you're not like representing, you haven't
been publishing books on a view.
Yeah, exactly.
So something that we talked about, I'll get into my question, but something that we
talked about last time was I asked you, you know, do you know any, this is a different
line of questioning, but bear with me.
Do you know any Bibles that translate the word generation differently, right?
Or they translate it.
And we both hadn't looked it up, but I looked it up.
And so I actually found, so I found this website, it does it all.
And every translation that's listed here, oh, except for the good news translation,
remember that all these things will happen before the people now living have all that.
Okay.
But they all say generation.
Yeah.
And on this website anyway.
And so I went down, I found this commentary and I thought this was really interesting.
This generation shall not pass.
The natural meaning of the word is beyond question.
That which takes generation in the ordinary sense.
And for those living at any given period.
So it was this generation that accumulated judgments were to fall.
The desire to bring the word into a more apparent harmony with history has led to
interpretations to take generation in a sense of race or people.
And so to see the words are a prophecy of the perpetuity of existence of the Jews
as distinct people till the end of the world.
But this for the meaning, but this for, sorry, for this meaning, there is not a shadow of
authority, nor does it remove the difficulty which it was invented to explain the words
Matthew 1628 state the same fact in languages which do not admit any such explanations.
And that's why some old Bible scholar that was, you know, theologian or something,
who's died a hundred years ago or something.
But I was like, wow, that, that, that is a very Hitchens kind of take on what I've,
what I, what I would say.
But so my question is, after all this is if the job, this is my understanding of a Bible
translator is that the Bible translator translating into English is to make it so
it's easy to understand for an English reader.
So if that word generation there means something different than how we read it in
modern English, my question is, why don't any Bibles translate it differently?
But my second question is, and this is the one I'm most interested in is,
how would you translate the verse?
This generation shall not pass away until all these things happen.
How would you translate that for modern English as someone who knows Greek and, and we can translate?
Yeah, probably in the context, I would say this people might be a nice way to do it in English.
This people will not pass away until all things be accomplished.
Meaning Israel, just to like completely new living this instead of people living right
the people alive right now, you would say just the message translation.
You would say all the Jewish people.
Yeah, you, yes.
I actually, I like the, to be honest, I like the word brood,
even though it's used in the early, in a different, in the chapter before of the,
of the hens, the chicks, you know, but which is a different Greek word.
But because brood to us conveys the idea of offspring,
and the word genia means offspring, like it's literally from the verb to give birth.
That's what the word comes from.
Okay.
Like our word generate is related to generation.
You know, they have the idea of generation.
So, so yeah.
So my, let me answer your questions as fast as I can, or as clear as I can.
The first is also that this is just me and Druke, like kind of poke holes in.
Yeah, no, no, it's good.
It's good, it's good.
That's like to divide.
I can only just tell you how I see it.
So the, the comments you just read would be like to me, it's like,
tell me you don't know what you're talking about.
But without telling me, you don't know what you're talking about.
So that comment that you read is embarrassing to this person, whoever wrote it.
Oh, well, the, the, yeah, I'll see his commentary.
Okay.
Yeah.
The, the classical Greek, in classical Greek, mind you, right?
The word is never.
And I mean, there is zero record in any lexicon or anywhere of the word ever meaning
what he just said it meant later in later Greek coin, a Greek is the Greek, of course,
the New Testament.
You do see it start to come up like that as a, as a singular reference to a group of contemporaries.
But you don't have that in classical Greek.
That's a later development.
Okay.
So first of all, I'll say that second, you'll see it in the plural, but not like a singular like that.
Secondly, Chrysostom, who was obviously a native Greek speaker in the fourth century,
when he comments on the word, he states specifically in Greek, of course, he's commenting in Greek
on this verse, he says that, that in Greek, of course, right, his own, he doesn't say in
Greek because he's commenting on his own language.
He says this word can, can have a temporal connotation or can connote something that's
not temporal that's just related to, you know, the family quote, a group who are connected
by something else, like, like offspring and so on.
So he makes that comment when he's commenting on the passage, and he's a native speaker of
the language of the language at the time, or at least in the Roman Empire.
So, so I think that's a sufficient authority to somebody can go look up Chrysostom if they want
and look at his commentary on Matthew, they can see he comments on the meaning of the word.
So he doesn't say it has to mean this, he says it could mean one of the two things.
So that's the first thing, the, or the second thing.
Now, there are translations whose footnotes will tell you it can mean something like race
or nation, like the NIV, the NASB, at least editions I've seen, they do have that as footnotes.
Okay, where you can see that the word does have another meaning.
And if you look at any commentary that's worth anything, a commentary by somebody who actually
knows the language, they will tell you that yes, the word could mean this.
Now, I have to say, I looked in the last month at a few commentaries that I generally respect,
and I was a little surprised how dismissive they were of what the word could mean,
family or offspring, something to that effect.
And I will just only say, I offer you the challenge of finding somebody who actually
defends that position and why they defend it, other than just declaring it.
So that's just, I'm just telling you honestly.
So, but, but aside from that, hold on, just to clarify, you're saying they're, they're
dismissing it, you know, your, your reading of the word or your, your definition of the word
in the context of this particular verse, right?
No, of the synoptic gospels across the board, they'll say that the word always means
contemporaries, and they more or less say, even Don Carson, I think, who's it?
Oh, I shouldn't name names if I can't remember the person.
So even someone who's, you know, conservative evangelical, I can't remember,
it probably wasn't Don Carson, let's just say that, that they, they more or less said, you know,
it gets desperate if you try to say this word could mean this other thing.
And honestly, I just like, you understand that New Testament scholars read New Testament Greek?
They're not reading all of Greek, like Thucydides and Plato, and they're not always
like reading all the Greek.
So sometimes they make some comments that feel a little narrow to me.
But anyway, I'm just telling you anything I've said here, you can literally check
every single thing I've said, you can check the Chrysostom reference, you can check Justin
Martyr, you can check Josephus.
I mean, how is it that Josephus, who's a contemporary writer, rarely uses the word
in its temporal meaning of contemporaries, he mainly uses it to refer to the nation of Israel
or offspring or a family.
He uses it like that sometimes, but he refers to it in the sense of race.
Yeah, I still have an issue though, with your, with your reading of it.
Because if you say it's this people, it doesn't seem to be in the spirit of everything else Jesus
is talking about like this, like, it doesn't seem that Jesus is saying this people as in
2000 years from now, like, it doesn't, it doesn't, I didn't get that, that vibe from it.
And like, maybe that's just a bad translation.
I mean, the word means, yeah, the word means offspring.
Yeah.
Can I try to make this point too?
I want to want to jump in and I don't want it to, I don't want to subvert the cross
examination of the word, but like, I think what David was about to say, what I've been
thinking this whole time is, well, let's, let's grant that Bill's interpretation is correct.
Then what does the verse say?
Is Jesus saying the Jewish people will not pass away until all these things have happened?
If that's the case, it seems rather a silly thing to say.
Like, yeah, that's, yeah.
Actually now I think you're, now we're making a lot more progress as far as I'm concerned.
So let's talk about that for a second, but I just want to close out.
Again, Generation and Wickliffe, right?
You can go look at it yourself in Genesis 31 and see that the word means family.
So it, however you want to translate it.
I love how you're taking on all like modern biblical scholarship consensus here.
And I'm not, and I'm not saying that as a pejorative.
I, you know that I, I believe, I believe in you and I think that you're a really smart guy.
I just think it's, it's, it's a, you know, it's, it's bold, it's still bold.
So, so the, the, the thing that gets me about this is we're talking about generation and like,
we're talking, well, let's, let's just, the Jewish people, all this will happen as the
Jewish people still the same.
The things that are described, and this is in Luke, but it's a little different.
They'll hand you over the synagogues you will be put in prison.
You'll, you'll bear testimony to me.
Do not worry beforehand.
So it's a lot of, Jerusalem is, is surrounded by armies.
You will know the desolation is near.
Let those who are in Judea, it's not talking about, like, I'm not going to Judea.
You know what I mean?
What is it says?
Jerusalem will be trampled on by the Gentiles.
There'll be signs like, there'll be signs for the sun, moon and stars.
It says somewhere here that people will fall by the sword.
Um, where is that?
Sword, sword, sword.
Yeah.
They will fall by the sword and be taken prisoner to all nations.
Like, wouldn't you say if this was, if this was, you know, wouldn't you say they'll be
taken by AK-47s and prisoner to all, like, why would you use, why would you use,
like, age specific terminology if then you're going to say at the end, by the way,
this is all going to happen in the next at least 2000 years.
Like, that just seems very, it's hard for me to wrap my head around.
It just seems very odd.
It's just a very weird thing.
It's like, it's like Jesus saying, by the way, bad stuff could happen.
Yeah.
Let me answer that one very quickly, but I don't want to get on the rabbit trail
unless you want to come back to it.
But I don't think Luke is referring to the same, quite exact thing.
If you look at the passage there, Luke is talking about the, the actual physical
surrounding of the city of Jerusalem by Roman armies.
And it's, and that after the Roman armies destroyed Jerusalem,
time will move forward.
He says, and I quote now, until the times of the Gentiles are fulfilled.
So he's looking at an event that is at, that is in the ancient period back then, right?
Yeah, there.
And then there's a period following that where Gentiles will rule Jerusalem
until those times are fulfilled.
That, I'm just telling you, that's what verse 24 is saying, just on its face.
It seems like that's what it's referring to.
So I don't want to get lost on that because I want to come back to the other thing.
We can eventually get back to this if you want to.
But if we could just get back to the other thing, because Drew, I want to clarify.
They're drew.
I mean, look, I Howard Marshall wrote, you know, a very prestigious commentary on Luke
in the Greek Testament commentary series.
You can go look it up.
I Howard Marshall.
And I Howard Marshall makes the same case more or less than I'm doing.
Not the same way, but he comes to the same conclusion.
He uses some references from the Dead Sea Scrolls to show that this word
in the Hebrew context of Jesus among first century Jews clearly was transgenerational.
It didn't just refer to one group of contemporaries.
And, you know, he's hard.
You know, he was a prestigious scholar.
I think he's passed away now.
So it's not like it's just my secret view.
There are scholars who held the view, Leon Morris and so on.
There's other scholars who hold the view.
But why the translation tradition sticks with generation, I would say, first of all,
because a lot of these scholars think that's really what the word means, even in modern English.
I think in some ways they're a little bit influenced by just the kind of stubbornness
of translation that people, they tend translators tend to try and change as little as possible.
Right. So they try to retain as much as possible from previous translations.
And sometimes things get through the cracks a little bit.
And others, I think they really do just think that's what the word means.
By the way, in Luke 16.8, I didn't reference this at all.
In Luke 16.8, nobody thinks the word genea means the contemporary, Jewish contemporaries.
It cannot mean it in that verse.
So almost everybody who comments on what they think the word means throughout the gospels
always says, well, except Luke 16.8.
Okay, that's fine.
That's fine.
But that means it doesn't always mean that.
So you have to then decide on context.
And I've tried to give an argument.
My argument is really actually not the meaning of the word or even the translation.
I'm trying to say if all you had was an English Bible and you saw the word generation in Matthew 23
and you saw Jesus talk about the generation, this generation in Matthew 23.
It's clear he's using the term to describe the group of Jews across many, many centuries
who have been rebelling against God now since the days of the prophets.
And therefore they're going to be judged imminently.
Like I agree.
You know, that's what he's saying.
But I'm saying in Matthew 23, it's not possible to make sense of that passage
if he's just limiting the meaning of the word to his contemporaries because his contemporaries
weren't alive hundreds of years before that, killing Zachariah.
So even in an English Bible, I think you can still see that the meaning of the word is not
limited to the contemporaries.
And if you read Deuteronomy 32 in English, just go look at it in English.
You don't need Greek or Hebrew.
You can see Moses is referring to events across many generations of Jews,
but he's using the term generation to describe them, the group who's doing these things.
So I'm not trying to say you have to know Greek to do this.
I'm saying if you just look at an English Bible and read the context,
it can't really hold this meaning always that Jesus is referring to his contemporaries.
Maybe sometimes it does refer to the contemporaries and other times it clearly doesn't.
And the biggest one is Matthew 23 because it's what sets the context for the whole discussion
Matthew 24.
It's in response to that.
Now, if we go ahead.
I actually haven't heard that.
That's actually something really interesting that I never heard before.
And it's something to look at.
I didn't know about.
I didn't look at the context of 23.
I'm just curious and I don't know, but is that the same for Mark and Luke?
Is it the same preamble?
No, Matthew has those denunciations
of the Pharisees, you know, and scribes right immediately before this passage.
And then has Jesus announcing the destruction of the temple?
Luke has moved that denunciation earlier in the gospel,
as he does frequently move things around quite a bit.
Mark does not have the passage at all.
So, yeah.
Do you hold Tamaki in priority?
Yes, yes, yes, I do.
But Mark does have the reference to Deuteronomy 32,
where Jesus uses the language out of Deuteronomy 32 of generation,
but he's citing an allusion to Deuteronomy 32.
So, even if you just had Mark and not Matthew,
I would still say Jesus' use of the word is clearly not always just his contemporaries.
So, you're going to have to decide by context in Mark,
in the Olivet discourse, what it means.
So, now let's get on to that, because that was, I think, your other really big question,
was if you're just reading the whole discourse.
So, I would just like to say in like 30 seconds,
a very simple thing about that discourse that many people miss,
that can be really helpful, all right?
The disciples ask two questions.
Two questions.
They ask, when will all these things happen?
And then they ask, what sign will there be?
To these things.
And it doesn't matter whether you're in the Olivet discourse in Matthew, Luke, or Mark,
they all retain these two questions, okay?
Then Jesus answers them, and his answer falls into two parts.
And the first part, he's responding to the question about signs.
And that's where you get him telling them to be aware of false signs.
Don't think some of the things that are going to happen are actual signs of the end.
They're not.
Think there can be earthquakes and wars.
There can be things that happen that are not actually, they're bad,
but they're not the signs of the end.
They're not the end, he says.
The end is, quote, not yet, okay?
So, he has to warn them about the danger of looking for signs because you think the end is here.
So, just in the context, you would say that means that from the writer's perspective,
Christians needed to be reminded from Jesus not to expect always the end is upon them,
you know?
That's the only function of those verses.
So, do a lot of historians think that's an interpolation, or is that...?
Yes, but if you're in Mark in priority, the Olivet discourse is one of the earliest
layers, and a lot of the Olivet discourse is the Jewish apocalyptic stuff.
So, most people like Ehrman and stuff make quite copious use of the Olivet discourse for this reason.
Now, it gets to be clear sometimes what happens during this is you get a lot of circular reasoning
because suddenly people are shooting from the hip at what is, quote, early, right?
Well, are they deciding what's early based on their framework of Jewish, you know,
the Schweitzer framework, or because of other reasons are they deciding?
Yes.
It's very kind of loosey-goosey.
So, this is a problem that really does go both ways, in my opinion, is an interpolation,
unless I'm using the term wrong, you know, is when somebody that's of the
the Schweitzer camp, if you want to call it that, somebody, a historian that believes that Jesus was
a failed apocalyptic prophet, and that entire narrative that goes with that, all through
him getting this verse that we're talking about wrong and not coming back in 40, you know,
within the 40-year generation of the people that were there.
All of that, to me, like you were just saying, Bill, it feeds on itself.
Like, once you have that narrative, you interpret things in that light.
And from the flip side, once you have the Christian narrative that Jesus' word cannot be wrong,
you have to, you know, you have to interpret in that light.
So, I think it really does go both ways.
And it makes it, you know, it's one of the hardest things to me about trying,
like, do you say that every verse, except for the ones that the Bible notes,
maybe this wasn't original, every verse is to be given equal weight?
Or do you use some kind of historical, you know, standard to figure out what's more likely to have
been original and what might be an interpolation, which again, I take to mean was added in by a
scribe or something.
But yeah, no, I think you do the latter.
I mean, I'm completely comfortable with the idea that you have as a historian,
you have to say, well, what were the earliest layers?
Can we discern them confidently?
Now, it gets very shooting from the hips sometimes, but there are some criteria that
have been developed that are really helpful.
And certainly just noting that Mark is the arguments are very strong that Mark was first.
I actually think it's way more complicated than just saying Mark was first because I think there's,
but I won't go into that.
But anyway, but I think you would agree that even with all of the progress that's been made and the
rubrics that people use, the heuristics, I do think that we have to maintain a healthy
skepticism that we could ever get this right, because we'll just never know exactly what was
there 2000 years ago or how it got there.
And then, of course, there's Gospels that were not in the Bible and probably rightly so.
But we're dealing with what I would call at the risk of blasphemy an imperfect science.
Sure, we are.
I totally agree with that too.
I think as a like historically speaking, there's a lot you I lean a little bit actually more
toward agnosticism on a lot of the Christian history stuff.
So it's I'm, you know, I don't think you can just like go prove all these things happened
historically.
I think you can demonstrate some things and there's a there are.
I know your case for Christianity is a cumulative one where your faith in God is buoyed by other
things.
He's, you know, like it's not just I read this and then when I got to Revelation, I was I believed
it all.
You know, it's yours is yours is a more robust case than that.
And I really left out the revelations maybe that would help a lot of there are there are
scholars, of course, who take a very extreme agnostic view, you know, that we that we more
or less can only just look at the literary products we have and we can't hardly conclude
anything about the original Jesus.
And there I'm ecstatic to a lot of what they say about that because that's so it's true of
almost a lot of stuff.
But I do think Irmin in the Schweitzer camp has a lot that they can argue that hey, there's
good reasons to conclude this is probably part of the original Jesus stuff.
And of course, I think he did preach apocalyptically and stuff.
It's not like I I'm not like against that.
It's just about how you kind of define different things and where you decide where you decide
some things are original.
Let me just finish out the thing about what I was saying about the all of the discourse.
You have two parts.
You have the what are the signs?
OK, and Jesus gets to that.
He actually gives a sign.
In fact, he literally says, then will the then you will see the sign like in the first half
of the discourse.
So he seems clearly be talking about signs.
Then there's a point where it flips.
And he says now concerning the day and the hour.
And from that point on, all of his discussion is about timing.
When is this thing going to happen?
And so I think that's pretty clear.
It's Matthew has made it the clearest by far, but it's also really clear and Mark and Mark
again is the priority given usually by historians.
You could rely on Mark at least before you just assume Matthew.
So this is true in Mark as well as in Matthew just to be clear.
Why is that important?
Because when you get to him answering the question about timing, you understand signs
are different from timing.
Signs are indicating it's getting near.
Timing is exactly when it's going to happen.
Like when is it going to happen?
And when it comes to the timing, he says like this isn't open to interpretation.
Everybody agrees what he says.
He says nobody knows.
Not even he knows when the timing is.
Then he gives multiple parables to illustrate this, which all day or hour, like he's very
like he doesn't say because he I would push back a little back.
They're just searching to rub it says, I don't know the day or the hour.
Meaning I don't know exactly what's going to happen is what I is how I take it.
Not Andy doesn't stop there.
Right.
I mean, he says, I don't know the day or the hour, but I can tell you a few things
about about the timing.
Yeah.
Well, no, actually, I don't think either of those are quite right.
First of all, the question was answering.
The question that he's answering, just to be clear, is the disciples ask him when?
When will these things be?
The language of day and hour is just a common, I don't know, it's a what would you call it
like a metanomic if you're familiar with language.
That's the way I would think of it.
It's like it's just using the words to talk about timing.
Like when you talk about wheels, I have a nice set of wheels, me and your car, but you're
using it.
It's really common even in the gospel.
So I don't think that's a very good.
I would just, I'm sorry to not forgive you, but I would just argue that like
Bible scholars need to do their job better than because if it means if day or hour means
something different than what it says in English, then write it how it's supposed to
write in English.
Like don't give me this thing that I need to translate with like a sphere stone and like
the moons of Jupiter and like 400 codixes to like work out what's going on.
Like if this is supposed to be like the, I would even add that, you know, not only just
even if it, let's take it as an idiomatic thing.
Like I don't know the day or the hour.
I don't know, I don't know.
I know neither the day nor the hour.
I know nothing about what time or, you know, exactly when, but I do know that even it, even
if you read it the way you're reading it, Bill, I do know that the Jewish people won't pass away
before it happens.
So you know a little something about the timing because maybe people will pass away later.
Who knows?
Let me get to that though.
I haven't got that yet.
I'm just trying to say that the discourse has a very clear order to it and that can be very
helpful in reading the whole thing because knowing that he has, he devotes one whole
section to answering the question about signs and then he devotes the second half to the
question of timing and when he does get to the question of timing, again, it really doesn't
matter actually the words day and hour because they use them all the time like that throughout
the Gospels, like his hour was coming, you know, but it's not just meaning hour.
It just means his time is coming and he's answering the question when.
Like that's just even in the context in English.
He's answering the question when.
Anyway, and then when he goes on.
He doesn't just say, I don't know, right?
Well, he says nobody knows.
Neither the son, nobody, not angels.
Nobody knows the timing.
Only the God, the Father knows the timing.
And then he illustrates it with parables like the guy, you know, that leaves his estate and
he disappears for a long, long, long time.
I don't, that could be months.
Keep in mind.
Could be a year.
It doesn't matter to me.
He's gone for a long time and he gives this warning.
They don't know when he's coming back.
They don't know when.
That's the point.
They don't know when they don't know the timing.
And so there's a warning to the disciples that they don't start living as if he's never coming
back, you know, they need to, they need to be aware.
They're not going to know the timing.
If you, by the way, read like the book of Acts, the beginning of Acts,
the, the, remember the disciples asked Jesus in Acts chapter one, they say,
will you at this time restore the kingdom to Israel?
And Jesus says, it's not for you to know the times or the seasons.
Now notice he's not using day and hour, but he's using another expression for times,
for time, you know, it's not for you to know when
God is going to do this.
And that's just, that's the same thing.
It seems to me that he's saying in the Olivet discourse, you're not going to know the timing.
When Paul writes to the Thessalonians, he affirms this, he never gives a timing for
when Jesus might come back.
He simply says it's like, he's going to come like a thief in the night.
And the burden on you, which by the way is one of the parables, right?
That Jesus uses in the Olivet discourse is the thief in the night and Paul's using it.
And he just says, look, you're not going to know the timing.
The key is don't fall asleep.
Don't, don't get drunk like it's nighttime, you know, and he's never going to come back.
You got to live as if it's daytime and he could come at any time.
I mean, that's, that's the effect that anyways is what he wrote to the Thessalonians.
And then the, then the second Thessalonians, the, the, the church has, there's people in
the church that think they're living in the Eschaton, they're living through the Eschaton.
And Paul writes the second letter to say, no, you're not living through the Eschaton.
And you know, and you know how we know that.
And then he references the stuff from the Olivet discourse.
That's from Daniel and says, this is in second Thessalonians two, second Thessalonians two.
And he says, look, you know, if you're familiar with the little horn from Daniel, isn't,
isn't second Thessalonians, uh, afford that we, says this is forgery.
It's not written by Paul.
No, the consensus.
No, the majority of scholars think second Thessalonians is authentic.
But there is a significant minority who don't think it's authentic.
But the majority of scholars think it's, I would say, think it's authentic.
But anyway, either, either, by the way, even if you didn't think that,
it's still a book from the first century.
You know, but, but anyway, the, the, they think the Eschaton is going to happen.
And Paul, the way he tells them, it's not the day of judgment.
How do we know it's not the day of judgment is because the signs,
the sign that Jesus referenced hasn't happened.
That's what he refers to is the sign that Jesus gives
in the section of the Olivet discourse from Matthew 24.
I think it's verse 15, the sign about the abomination of desolation
and the work of the little horn.
If again, if you're familiar with Daniel, that's all referencing the,
the stuff from Daniel chapter seven, eight, nine and 10, those visions in Daniel.
Do you know what section of Thessalonians?
Sorry, it's chapter two.
Yeah.
I think that's Thessalonians two.
Also, by the way, this is the, this is the scholar that you said was an idiot.
Look at that.
Oh, no, please don't show his name.
Look at that glorious child that, that, the guy I read out that.
Yeah, I'm sorry.
That's, I probably, I did nothing.
You would say put someone's name.
Yeah.
But I'm just saying.
No, no, no, he's, no, he's, he's like dead for like, he's been dead for like a hundred years.
Yeah, still.
I don't want to.
Some serious sideburns though.
No, I just, I'm just kidding.
Honestly, honestly, those comments were terrible.
So I don't know what to say.
So Thessalonians, what verse is this?
Sorry.
Chapter two.
I mean, the whole chapter is about the day of judgment.
They think the day of judgment is the day the Lord has come and Paul says, no, it's not,
it's not come.
And then he goes on to explain
the reference to the man of man of lawlessness.
Yep.
Look at verse five.
Don't you remember when I was with you?
I used to tell you these things.
Okay, you just flipped it up.
And yeah, no, right.
The secret power of lawlessness is already at work and so on.
But look at back, back up to verse three there.
Verse three.
Yeah.
Highlight that.
Don't let anyone deceive you in any way.
That day will not come until the rebellion.
That's a reference to Daniel occurs and the man of lawlessness is revealed.
The man doomed to destruction.
He will oppose and will exalt himself over everything that is called God or is worshiped.
This is what Jesus is referencing in Matthew 24 when he refers to the abomination of desolation.
The one who will, according to Mark stand in the, is it Mark, will stand in the holy place.
So he sets himself up in God's temple.
I mean, you can, you can read it for yourself.
He's clearly described as somebody.
This is great because the second temple was destroyed in 70 CE.
So this would have to be before that, right?
Yeah, prior to it.
Yeah.
He says, don't you remember that when I was with you, I told you these things.
And then he says, in verse eight, then the lawless, then the lawless one will be revealed,
whom the Lord Jesus will overthrow with the breath of his mouth and the destroy by the
splendor of his coming.
Remember that in the Olivet discourse, Jesus is coming, which is like verses 20,
28, 29, 30 and so on, that that coming is to destroy the ruler who sets up the abomination
of desolation in the temple.
So Jesus is coming is an answer to that man of lawlessness who is described here in,
in, uh, in 2 Thessalians 2.
So again, all I'm trying to say is that this passage here has, I guess, is aware in, I'm
not saying that Matthew was written or Mark was written, but he's aware of the fact that
there's this view, let's just say it very generically among the early Christians,
that Jesus taught that this, what we now have is the first half of the Olivet discourse,
that that was the sign before Jesus would ever come.
But okay, when you get to, okay.
So I was just asking, but, but how does, because it's, because if he sets himself up in God's
temple, that, that kind of gives it a, a hard date to stop unless you start to interpret
interpret the temple to be like the, the, the body of God now, you know what I mean?
It's a, it's a great question.
Just take us on a rabbit trail, but it's a perfectly great question.
You know, like that you'd have to then, I agree.
I'm just reading what it seems to plainly say, and you can go back and read it and see if you,
you can, obviously you can just totally disagree with the, what I've just said, if you want the,
the, when you get then to the second half of the discourse, again, it's about timing.
So the reason I said that, the reason I was trying to say that, and I actually said I would
do that in 60 seconds, like 10 minutes ago, the reason that I was trying to emphasize that
is because we're talking about verses 34 and 35, but verses 34 and 35 are the final
climactic statement at the end of the first half of that discourse, where he has been talking,
not about timing, but about the signs.
He's never taught, he's not talking about timing in that passage, you, in the first half of that
discourse. So it's not till after that that he begins to talk about timing.
So that's another reason I would just say, I might have good reason in English, no Greek,
nothing like that, to think maybe Jesus isn't talking about timing in verses 34 and 35,
because he's making kind of the final climactic statement of his discussion about, about the
signs. And now we're to Drew's big question, the most important question of all, what's the point
of saying any of this? Why did he even say Matthew 24, verse 34 and verse 35? And the answer is
that he wants to assert the certainty of the signs program he's just laid out that's going
to precipitate his coming. Amen, I say to you, okay, that's, Jesus uses that expression when
he's about to, you know, give something strong. And it's at the end of the first half of the
discourse about signs. And he says, amen, I say to you, and then he wants to say two things.
But they're just twin, they're twin statements making the same point. Number one,
this people, which I read as this faithless brood will not pass away until all this program
has come to fulfillment. And then secondly, the second thing he says, heaven and earth will pass
away, my words will never pass away. But notice in verse 35, you don't have to ask me what his
point is. His point is about the certainty, right? Heaven and earth will pass away.
My words will never pass away. Does that have anything to do with, wait, wait, wait, let me
just finish. Does that have anything to do with timing? That has nothing to do with timing.
It has to do with him affirming the certainty that what he's just laid out, the program he's
just laid out, is absolutely going to happen. And the expression, this, by the way, I never
mentioned this to you, but the word will be accomplished or fulfilled or take place. That
word, that verb is actually a play on words with the word jenea. So he says kind of artfully,
amen, I say to you, this brood will not pass away until everything I've told you is birthed.
So the word take place means to come to be, to come into being. So it's the word, it's also
the word to be born. Like in classical Greek, you would regularly just translate that word to be
born. So he's actually got a little play on words there because he's saying like this group who was
born, but they're now faithless and rebellious, you know, they're not going to pass away until
the program I've just laid out has been birthed. So it's just affirming the certainty of it. And
why is that important? Well, because the whole program involves the judgment of the world
and the judgment on rebellious Israel on the faithless and rebellious group.
So that's why he's talking about them. He's just spent, the whole discussion of signs is laying
out that the city is going to be judged at some point. Is it like Jesus kind of saying in your
mind, hey, there's always going to be arseholes. Like these arseholes are always like this,
like essentially, is that what are you kind of getting at? Like he's essentially saying like
these people will be with us right up until everything falls apart. Yeah, I mean, if you're
affirming the certainty of it, it's probably a little bit like saying that it's not going to go
unaddressed. I get the word play, I guess, but I still feel like it's a it's an odd statement.
Right. It's like saying all the good people will be here until the end. And all the bad people
will also be here till the end. And all the blonde-haired people will be here till the end.
You can say that about anything. Everything will be here until the end.
Well, if you said something like, say you were running for office in a Mexico, I don't want to
stare at a type of country, in countries that have cartels. If you were running for office in a
country with a cartel and you said, well, this cartel will not, I guess, pass away. I'm trying
to think of a better English word. But this cartel will not pass away until justice has been fully
realized. It's just a way of saying they ain't going to get away with it. And remember Matthew
23, that triggers this whole inquiry by the disciples, is Jesus has just spent the whole
chapter denouncing the government, the leaders of the government, and that because of the way
they're treating the true believers in God, they've already persecuted them in the past,
they're going to persecute the prophets and apostles and stuff. I send to them in the future,
and they are going to be judged. God is going to judge them for their rebellion. So I mean,
that is the program that is laid out in this whole idea that in order for God to restore the
nation of Israel and to restore the world, he actually has to do it through judgment. It's not
like all the Jews are going to perish. Jesus' entire vision is from the Old Testament prophets.
The nation of Israel is going to be restored. The disciples are following him in the anticipation
that this nation is going to be restored and they are going to be restored. But in order to
accomplish that, there's going to have to be a judgment of the group who has been opposing them
and who is going to be persecuting them. I mean, go back to the first half of that sermon.
He tells the disciples, by the way, while you carry out the global campaign to reach all the
nations of the world, you're going to be severely persecuted. So it's not easy to be persecuted.
So I suppose it's helpful to know there is going to be a judgment and people aren't going to get
away with it. I mean, maybe that's the connotation of it. I don't know. I really have enjoyed this
conversation and I think I really wanted to get to Matthew 16 or Mark 16, the verses that we
initially talked about, the tribulation and stuff. Maybe we need to do a third one. I don't know if
there's going to be a third one or we need to continue this conversation another time, but
we're going to go about 10 more minutes and I really want to ask you this question because,
for me, this is coming back to, I guess, what we're talking about before about worldviews.
And I start from this worldview where I don't necessarily believe that the Bible is the inherent
word of God or I don't believe it's the inherent word of God. So I've got kind of a two-part,
but my question for you, Bill, is what do you see the Bible as? Are they instructions from God?
Was it ordained by God? What is the Bible in your eyes? Because you either have, in my mind,
and I'll let you speak, but you either have a history book that's kind of written that you
have to like jumble things around, or you have this thing that God has given us to kind of
understand him and understand his ideas and his concepts and cultures. And if it's that latter
one, I'm just asking, like, why is it so complicated? If God has a message for humanity,
why not just tell humanity that message? Why not just beam it into everyone's brain so everyone
knows that the exodus happened and all these, like, people could be born with the understanding
of who God is, like, perfectly if God's all powerful, and then still choose to reject him
if they wanted to, all the angels in heaven, the third of the angels did, even in that full
knowledge of who God is. So my understanding is, like, why is it so complicated? Why is the Bible
is, like, in your mind, is it from God, or is it just, like, a book of ideas written by people
about God? Like, what do you think it is? Yeah, I mean, I take the tradition, I hold the traditional
view of Scripture. My sort of attitude toward it is that I believe Jesus as the Gospels present him,
and so I believe he chose the apostles and they wrote, not they didn't write everything, but,
you know, that they were leaders of the early churches and so on, historically, and they were
like his spokesman. That's what the word apostle in Greek just means you're the ambassador of, like,
a diplomat for a country, you know? So my view has been, I should probably take my view of the
Bible should be cued off of them. So the way in which Jesus understood the Scriptures, the way he
used the Scriptures, the way the apostles and their writings use Scripture, I just try to follow
that pattern and hold the views they did. So I don't think of it so much as holding to, like,
a creed so much as just trying to follow their example, and obviously Jesus took these books
really seriously from the Old Testament and so on, so I take them very seriously. Now, as far as
simplicity, you know, I really think Jesus is right, this idea that seeking you shall find, you know,
that I don't think that most people actually read these books that much, or at least not that closely.
So I think they take little bits of them and they kind of get obsessed about certain parts of them,
and they even, I'm talking about Christians who are non-believers, it really doesn't matter who
they are. Very few people, I think, read these books that, like, actually read them a lot
and read them carefully. And part of that is generational. People in the past were readers
more. I mean, the people who could read probably read more. But part of it is just people are lazy
and they do other things, you know, whatever. So I do think when you, like, if you're reading
Matthew 24, I don't think that just the structure of the sermon is really that complicated. I mean,
the disciples have two questions, and Jesus clearly answers the two questions in two parts.
Like, that's about as simple as it gets. And that can be a nice little guide for understanding
kind of what the various parts of the sermon are about. Go ahead.
But is it from, like, from, like, God's perspective, like, overall, do you think that the Bible
has been, like, essentially ordained by God in order to teach us about him?
Yeah, I mean, yeah, I agree with the Apostle Paul statement that the scripture is God-breathed.
He's referring, of course, to the Old Testament scriptures there, but I believe that they're
God-breathed. But, because that's the word he used, is God-breathed. And what does he mean? Well,
he clearly is referring to the story when God created Adam. Because, like, that's the famous
story where God-breathed is that Adam was just a corpus until God-breathed into him life. So the way
I understand scriptures is what I think Paul meant, which is that in reading these words,
they're a source of life. They breathe into the people who read it and believe it.
They, it breathes into them the life of God, like God imparts his life to people through these
words, through these stories, through these things, as people trust them, yeah, as people believe them.
So, because Adam was just a corpus until God-breathed his life into him, and once he
breathed his life into him, then he had the life of God. So I think that's what Paul means. He just
means that in reading these things, people can learn about God and believe him, and then God
imparts his life to them. And what we call deliverance or salvation or whatever is just
another way to say it. That's actually, that's super interesting, because I never thought of it
like that, God-breathing, because I would almost agree. Like, when I was a Christian, I'd read the
Bible, and I'd feel that, I guess, life. I get the same thing when I read the bug of my pizza,
or other religious texts as well, but, or other, even going, you know, or non-religious texts.
Like, a book that changed my life is Our Norwegian Wood by Hureki Murakami. Amazing novel.
But, but, um, yeah, I mean, well, first of all, thank you both for coming on. My brain is scattered
beyond belief. I don't know about YouTube. Part three. So we need, we need a part three to discuss
the transfiguration and so on. And also, you can start by saying, okay, I checked up a couple of
things you said, and I disagree. We actually were originally going to, I was like, oh, it's a bit
unfair if, um, I thought I was going to bring on another Christian or something. I was like, oh,
it's a bit of, and I don't think you'd need another Christian, you know, I think you're like,
handle this pretty well. What I, so just for everyone, if this is your first time watching
Deep Drinks, I invite guests on, we have drinks of their choice. My goal, usually on Deep Drinks,
isn't to push back too hard, but it's to, I try to give the best, I try to offer the best interpretation
or try to understand the person's perspective. I don't necessarily, um, well, I don't agree with
everything Bill said here for sure, but it's given me so much to think about. Like, I'm really
going to go away and like think about a lot of what you've said here, um, because it might be
convincing to me when I look further into it. It's very interesting. And I guarantee you, Drew will
have much to say to me. If we do, if we do a part three, he will already have come back to me.
Yeah, he is really good at picking apart arguments.
Yeah. Well, I think, um, yeah, you almost need to build like a, build like a syllogism. And I
think that this video, um, for those watching it on the YouTube channel, this video was originally
streamed to just a patron and channel members. If you want to become a patron or a channel member,
patreon.com. That's Deep Drinks. But maybe the next one we can, I don't know if anyone, uh, in the,
um, crowd has a different opinion or wants to maybe jump in. I don't know. We could, we can
work something out, but it'd be this conversation. I think it's interesting. Let me know what you
think in the comments. Um, but thank you guys again for coming out, uh, and, um, and, and build,
uh, great job at defending, I think, uh, your perspective. Um, lots of, there's lots of,
for me to kind of unpack and think about it. Yeah. But just real quick on the other side,
it's really helpful. If I just may say to Christians, if there are Christians that listen
to this, the Christians need to also go and like, you know, get an ermine book, his book on Jesus,
Jewish Apocalyptic Prophet, you know, and read it and think about it. And like, because it's not
like everything he says is wrong. And he, I think he offers some helpful correctives to some things
that Christians occasionally get wrong too. Yeah. Well, um, yeah, I mean, this, this, but I love
religion. I love studying religion. Um, it's super interesting to have these conversations. And I
agree. And I actually love having people on that, um, aren't from the, I guess, atheist,
atheist sphere of influence and all have the same talking points. So it's interesting to be
challenged. And I'm sure there's going to be a lot of comments, um, going, well, what are you talking
about? So, you know, let's look forward to that as well. But everyone. Shocking. Shocking if that
would happen. Yeah. Um, and I'm sure, I hope there's some comments about me, um, on your,
on your conversation. But anyway, your, your, um, yeah, but YouTube channel as well as the
podcast, the divide links in the description. My episode will be released by the time you see
this on my YouTube channel. So go check it out. Um, thank you so much, Drew, for coming on and
thank you so much Bill for coming on. It's been an absolute pleasure. Um, and we'll have to do
this again sometime. Thanks, David. Great. Thanks, David.
