Welcome everyone to Deep Drinks Podcast. It feels like it's been a while. It's been a
couple of weeks since I've been on the screen, that's for sure. Today we have an awesome
guest. He was a Christian for 20 plus years. Imagine being a Christian for 20 years and
a charismatic pastor for over a decade ordained. So imagine being a charismatic pastor for
10 years and being ordained and then eventually starting to doubt your faith. What does that
look like? How does that happen? How do you go from imagining that you have this relationship
with the creator of the universe to doubting the existence of said creator? And my guest
today is also a content creator who is just recently whose channel is starting to blow
up. My guest today is Durant Durante. Welcome to Deep Drinks Podcast.
Hello. Hello. Thank you for having me, David.
Thank you for coming on. And I'm really super glad that you've got a new microphone and
camera because it looks shimmick. Sounds awesome. And where did you get that amazing
gift? All right. Perfect moment here. Like, oh my goodness, one of my new best friends
in the world, apostasy Stacy actually gifted me this, the camera and the microphone. And
like it's really one of the nicest things anyone has ever done. And this, this is, it's
beautiful. Like I've never gotten to hear my voice like this. So I am so grateful. And
yes, that's what it used to look like. Yeah. And it's the same shirt.
Oh, that's cool. I really, yeah. Stacey is just amazing. Stacey and Dave, thank you
so much for the gift. And, and, and of course friends of the show, go subscribe to Stacey
Smalls podcast as well. Subscribe to Durante on YouTube. Links in the description. You're
tell us a little bit about your content before we get started. What are you doing over there
at the moment?
Well, like right now it's a bunch of decompression. So I'm just sharing a whole bunch of thoughts
that I've had over the past 10 years that I've kind of not been able to share about
my experience with the church world. And one of the neat things we're doing right now is
Bible study with the next pastor, which I'm doing. Oh, yeah, I'm going to do that. Yes.
Bible study with the next pastor, where we're literally walking through the Bible, starting
with the book of Genesis chapter by chapter. And I'm kind of walking through what I thought
about it as a child, what I thought about it as a preacher and what I think about it
now as an atheist.
Well, it looks like it's very, it's very awesome. I can see you have obviously a background
in marketing or something. It all looks just make it looks awesome. I'm super stoked. Thank
you for everything. It's great to see a channel come out with like some really good branding
and stuff like I think you just nailed it.
There we go. There we go. So what are we drinking today?
All right, I am drinking a palm of sun, which is actually one of my favorite drinks. And so I
felt like this might be something easier. It's a brandy and it's a very smooth one. I've
it's a friend of mine, if I can say it that way. If you can tell, I've been spending a little
bit of time with brandy already. So I love I love I don't know if you're the first guest
that's come in pre deep, I'll say like had had a couple of pre pre deep drinks. I definitely
have before. And so it's a it's great to great to have you here and I'll get started. I don't
have the exact same brandy. Not only is it really difficult to get out, I would have to
order it from America would have been way too expensive for for us at the moment. So I got
a little mini bottle of brandy that apparently has good reviews. So and I think this is my first
brandy. But I'm going to try it. So got in my glass. And yeah, this is going to be good taste.
Yes, I love that glass.
Oh, that's nice. Yeah. Oh, yeah. Yes. Yeah. It's beautiful. It's a delectable dance. It is a
delightful dance. Any D word you can use that it can even be a delusional dance once you get a few
too many in there. Yes, it's it's kind of like, um, like port almost. Yes. Yeah. Mead. I don't
have me but it reminds me of like, it's kind of a sweeter but not like that. Like, that's good. Wow.
Love that. So tell us just where do we start with your story? I just how do you go from well,
let's just go right back to the start. Tell us. Let's start at the roots. Like who is Durante?
Like tell us how so how it all started. This is so it's so interesting to me because I often
tell people that I feel like my life is a movie. And it's just because there's just so many different
layers. And so my early childhood was was very interesting. And you know, like I remember watching
movies like losing Isaiah and I don't know if anybody's ever seen that movie is one of Holly
Barry's early movies, but it was I was like, Holy crap, this could have been my life.
But to kind of give some context, my my grandfather, who who was in Vietnam,
him and my grandmother got into an argument when my mother was nine months old, and he decided to
stab my grandmother to death. My mother's life was then thrown into turmoil. She was raised by
a by her father's mother for until she was a teenager that ended up being not a healthy
environment. So then she was sent to her deceased mother's mother. And I love my great grandmother.
She was always nice to me. But apparently she was not nice to other folks. So and my mother was one
of those folks she was not too nice to, and just to kind of provide some color to that. And in her
mind, my mother was the child of both the daughter she lost and the man that took her away. And you
know, when when you when you live when you live with such ideologies as original sin and evil,
then you now feel that that child is somehow marked by what that father had done, the sins of the
father. And so my grandmother, you know, my great grandmother, based, you know, based off her own
mentality, she didn't treat my mother very well. And so my mother, you know, at a very young age
ended up living, you know, a quite reckless lifestyle. And to this day, I just she she's
just a a young girl that never grew up. She never never had the type of parenting that she needed.
And so she's lived her life as a child, you know, and it that doesn't make for a good mother,
doesn't make for a good parent. So I never had one of those. And so I lived the majority of my
early years with different relatives or strangers. It was, I don't remember ever really living one
year with one group of people. Every year, it was with someone different, either a different
relative or a different friend of the family or something along, along those matters.
Now, during that time, I kept myself preoccupied with reading and things of that nature. I was
always somewhat of an anomaly among my family, my friends in my community, because I was always
interested in things that other people just seem not to be interested in at the time, you know,
so here I was living in this, you know, little, you know, it was an apartment that you can tell
like, oh, drug addicts live here, right? It was one of those places. I would walk to the library
every day and just pick a random book to read and just learn about the world and things and things
of that nature. So what about in the US was this was this, were you moving around all over the place
or were you in the early years? It was primarily Alabama, which is yeah, oh yeah, it's just about
as south as you can get other than Florida. And it's even though Florida is more southern than
us, Alabama feels a lot more southern than Florida. I promise you that. So I've never been to the
States before. It's on my list to come over there one day. But I have a friend from Australia who's
moved over to Alabama. And, and he is quite horrified at the amount of racism that is there.
And he's a white guy, right? So I imagine he only sees he doesn't like he doesn't have a tactile
sensation around racism where yourself, you probably have a very different experience
with racism because it's directed. That's actually you you segue there perfectly
by asking me which which which segment I lived in because now I did I did experience quite a
bit of racism in my early years. But if I would have never ventured away from Alabama,
I would have never known it was racism. And so so I'll give you some examples of some things
that happen. When I was in elementary school, I can't remember quite what grade I got jumped
by some other kids of a different color. And they were calling me Coon and things like that.
And I had no clue that that was a racial slur. There was another time that I was
my I was in a car with my aunt and we saw a church that had a fundraiser. And I was a kid
young kid. And I said, Oh, I would love to get some cookies. And so my aunt pulled over and I
walked up and gave him my little money. So I would like to get some cookies. And the little
girl said just as politely as she wanted to, we don't sell colored cookies. And, you know,
at that moment, I was completely confused because I was like, I didn't ask for M&Ms
of my cookies or anything. I just wanted cookies. So I don't know what she's talking about.
But I remember going back to the car and telling my aunt, well, like, hey,
they don't sell colored cookies here. And seeing my aunt's face just flush. And it's actually my
great aunt. So she's an older woman. And seeing her face flush with just both shame and anger.
Those are emotions that I was too young to, to completely understand at that moment. But
the older I became and the more experienced I became, I began to realize certain things.
And so I say that to kind of add in sixth grade, I ended up moving to DC with my father for a while.
And I had never seen that many black people in my life. Now, what most people don't don't know
about the States is that there are more black people in the South than anywhere else in the
States that it's actually called the black belt. And a lot of people don't know that because we
call it the Bible belt, because a lot of us are believers. But, but there's more of us in the
South than anywhere else, but we're so scattered in the South that we don't actually run into each
other. And in Northern States, we're very or more Northern States were very collected. And so when
I moved to DC, it was the first time I had ever went to a majority black school. So like the
school I grew up in in Alabama, one of them was Rehoboth Elementary. And like, Rehoboth was a K
through 12 school kindergarten through high school. And there was literally like a handful of black
people in the whole school. There may have been a 25 of us all put together. And then I moved to
Upper Marlboro, Maryland, and went to the school called Texan Elementary. And there were two white
kids in the whole school. And I had never seen that dynamic before saw a whole different type of
life. And that was the first time I realized like, holy crap, something might actually be wrong
with the way that I viewed the world. And so just to kind of to book in this and kind of go back
to Alabama, to give you some common ideology, because racism has a deeper side effect than
just other people seeing you as less than that's, that's irrelevant. That's that has no power. I
think it was Frederick Douglass, who said, no man can ride my back unless I bend over and let him ride.
The more insidious aspect of racism, when people begin to believe these things about
themselves, and try to pass them down to their children. And so one of the one of the most
detrimental things I can remember hearing growing up from from my older relatives is this is a
this is a white man's world. Be careful, you know, they're going to kill you. Don't aim too high,
you know, don't you're wanting too much, you're asking too much. This is this is not your world.
You know, and it was just like, whoa. And then even in some of the more academic circles of my
community, you'll still find those type of ideologies when it comes to things like technology.
There are many aspects of my community that are anti technology, because they view those
things as like, oh, this is white man stuff. And this is just going to bring you down. And so
like what people don't often see are the social the far reaching sociological effects of racism,
that in order for this thing to have ever worked in the beginning, you had to convince the parents
to pass it to the children. And once that cycle begins until it's purposefully interrupted,
you get some long standing damages. So there are many people that I grew up with that were very
close friends of mine that I've always been an anomaly to because to them, I'm the opposite
of what are the people that we love and respect and looked up to said that I should be, you know,
as a black man.
Whoa, I just had a memory come back from when I was a child and adult told me and they didn't say
this with any like authority or any like, or any any prescription. But they literally sat down
and told me once that they said, us white people, we think we're better than black people. And they
didn't say it like, that's a good thing or a bad thing. They just said, that's just the fact of the
matter. Like when it comes to like brass tacks, when it comes to like that, that's just like the
subconscious belief of us white people. And it made me really think because I was like, yeah,
that's that's kind of messed up. Like why, like, like, you might think you don't have these subconscious
biases, but everyone, you accept them yourself, or you don't, or you like, I'll give an example,
you mentioned the slur, the Coon slur before. And there's a, there's a type of cheese. I don't know
if you guys have it, but it was, it was called Coon cheese in Australia. And it's because the
family name was Coon, like the last name was Coon. And it was this big push to remove the name
recently, like a couple years ago. And they did, they changed the name to something else. But there
there was this huge, like anti, like this huge uproar about it, like this social justice warrior,
like, you know, society woken, and it was just like, wait a minute, like a lot of my Christian
family and friends were, were like anti changing the name. And I was like, wait, would you, would
you be objecting the same if like, and they're all white, by the way. So I'm like, would you
object the same if like, if the cheese, if the God, if the family's last name was like Satan is
Lord cheese, would you be like, no, we shouldn't change it? Is it like, is it only because it
doesn't affect you? Because like, like even, even though I know that's the, the history behind
that it's the family's last name, but like, you know, if the family's last name was Satan is Lord,
like you don't want to read that when you're like, if you're a Christian going, a Christian is like
not a, you're not born as a Christian, become a Christian. So it's like, it's not something you
can change. Like you can't, you can't change skin color, you can't change. Imagine if it was like,
death's gaze, cheese, and it's like, no, like, I don't want, like, I mean, like, so,
so yeah, it just became this, like, it became this really weird, like,
conversation that we're having. It was just like, this seems so, like, just motivatively loaded,
like. Oh yeah. Oh yeah. It's, it's, it's, it's, it's a very interesting thing that, that I don't
think gets explored enough in a healthy way. Most of the time when this conversation is had,
it's had bipolar opposites. And it's, you know, my side, your side, my side, your side. And,
you know, my academic background is sociology. So I do, I do prefer to take quite a different
glance at this. And there was a scholar, someone on the fringes, his name was Amos Wilson, and he,
and he talked about this, and he said, you take two kids born in a certain time in the United
States of America. One of those kids is black, one of those kids is white. The white kid has
adult black people that have to call him sir. He has grown people that if they do not call him
sir as a kid, they could suffer grave consequences. And then on the same side, you have a grown adult
black man who has to call that white kid sir. And his mother has to raise him to know that no matter
how old you become, no matter how mature you become, this is your station in life. So like,
you know, we have the immense process, emancipation proclamation that comes,
but there is no societal effort to now undo these damages of colonial domestication
that now you've enriched both sides to pass down. And so now each, each side is not necessary
a villain of its own circumstances, but has now become a victim of its parents and grandparents
sociology, which we all are and everything that we do, what are the good things we do and the bad
things we do. Unfortunately, we're kind of a victim of the sociology of the environments that
we've been in. But we, as far as politically in this country, we've not taken that type of approach.
And so even with the Emancipation Proclamation, it was like, okay, you're free. Now all exists
together, everything be okay. And we saw that that ended up with a lot of bloodshed over the years
that that we're still processing. We as a nation, we still have not learned how to deal with that.
And I think part of that is because there are so many superstitious and religious nuances attached
that we can't actually have a healthy conversation. I mean, the rabbit trail.
Not rabbit trail away. This is this is the whole, this is the whole thing. And the liquor will take
us on a very different direction to whatever's planned. So this is what we want. So,
so I guess going back to growing up, so you're growing up in the South, as a, you know, as a
black man, you know, with a with a disruptive family life. And so when do you, I guess, become a
Christian? And when do you get, I guess, become a born again Christian?
But by the time, by the time I became a Christian, I had lived, you know, quite a bit of life. And
I was still young. I was like 11 to 12 years old. But by this time, and I only remember this because
this was a question. By this time, if you would have asked me, Hey, when did you lose your virginity?
I wouldn't have been able to give you an answer. And at this time, I was 11, 12 years old.
Wait, so you, you had lost your virginity, like you're like little Wayne levels of losing your
virginity. I think it was, wasn't he like a nine or something or 11 or something?
Oh, yeah, yeah, it was, yeah, like, when, when, when you, when you, when you're living and neither
one of your parents are attentive to you, you develop your own ideals early about what life is
and what you can do and what you can't do. And then you also determine that adults are not trustworthy
and so that you could really just do whatever the hell you want to do and learn on the way.
I was very much so that kid. So, and of course, I was well read by this time as well. And so I
wasn't actually interested in church. I wasn't interested in religion. I had read enough to kind
of think that this is not true. You know, you're like this like well read. I'm just imagining
you like well read. You've been, you've slept around. You're ready to settle down kind of
Yeah, I'm a ghetto Matilda at this point. Like a pipe and like a, like a not your favorite arm
chair. Like that's, that's incredible. People think people actually don't think that like kids
maybe 11. Yeah. But maybe like before puberty can have sexual attraction. Like I was watching,
I remember going to a friend's house and they recorded, they recorded like sex life tapes
and I'll watch them with him when I was like five or six. Yes. And we would like just lie on pillows
and watch these people having sex and we liked it. Like we'll, but it's like people don't realize
that kids can be like sexualized, like really young. Like, like you have, you have the capacity to
feel those sexual things. I don't think it's healthy. I would advise not like
Yeah. Yeah. That's when I found my love of cinema. I love the, the camera angles, the
lenses they use in pornographic films. I just, I'm kidding. The storyline is amazing. The story
like best storylines. It goes, it goes Hollywood Bollywood pornos. That's the pornos of the top
storylines in the world. No, but, but yeah. So, so you couldn't even say when you lost
you originally at 11 years old. Did we, did we having sex a lot or you just don't remember
like, it was, Godly, it was definitely a lot. You know, because it was,
you know, I would love to say that my mother was impacted by the drug and none of her friends were,
but unfortunately that's not typically how it works. So all of my mother's friends were typically
people who were also impacted by this drug. And so we were also very impacted by this lifestyle.
And when your parents are, are addicts, they are not the best people to protect you from
being exposed to certain elements. And so you do unfortunately begin wrestling with a lot of
emotions, urges and really mental stimuli that you're not really prepared for. And so
spoiler trigger warning here. Like I could remember at a very young age at one point
waking up in the middle of the night while my mom was sleeping with some random guy
in the bed while I was in it. And I would love to say that that is something that is,
you know, not normal, but for people who do grow up in that type of environment, it is like,
I don't know if you guys know who Tyler Perry is, but one of the plays that he becomes,
you know, immensely famous for is a play where they, where they, they talk about that very thing of
a child whose mother is a drug addict and that child wakes up in the middle of the night while
that mother's sleeping with, with, with somebody in the bed with the child. And I remember watching
that like, how does Tyler know my story? And then, you know, later realized like, wow, he,
you know, crack as a hell of a drug. And so as a child, you do get exposed to those things. Those
things become normal for you because as any child in any context, you normalize what the adults do
around you. And what you see the adults do are typically the things that you mimic doing.
And then if you're kind of neuro divergent, and which I kind of was, then you're like, no,
I don't want to do it for play play. I want to do it for real. Let's not, let's not play games.
And so yeah, unfortunately, that was, that, that, that was a rally. I remember the first
time I thought about it, I actually cried. And I didn't know that it was something I should be
sad about, but I definitely felt sad about it realizing like, oh, and you know, that's partly
purity culture too, because I was just like, oh, now I won't be able to share that special moment
with my future wife when I, when I thought about it, because like it's, it's gone. It's, it's been
gone a long time ago. Did you cry at the realization of what sex was? Or did you cry after you'd had
sex when you realized you had sex? I cried like years later after I realized that I
had had sex so much that I didn't know when I had started. That felt, it felt like a dissonance to
me. It felt like, whoa, like this is something that, this is something that you should have
thought about before now. And at that time, I think I was maybe 14 when that question became,
when the question actually came, and I actually realized like, oh, I don't think that's normal.
I don't, I don't, I don't know anybody who says that. And so it definitely struck me as, as odd,
and it's probably one of the first times that I realized, because again, everybody I grew up,
grew up just like me, but it was one of the first times that I realized that maybe the bubble that
I grew up in was not healthy at all. Did you, so you replicated what was around you in your own
own desires? Just, you just followed them. Did that ever lead to drugs or alcohol at young age,
or any like substance use? Oh, it did not. That's the crazy thing. I didn't, okay, here's, here's
trigger, trigger one. I didn't get involved with anything that could be called drugs until after
I left the faith. That the same year I became an atheist, I started smoking marijuana.
Hey, I know someone who's going to comment in a second, I'm sure they'll comment in a second,
but yeah, it's correlated, it's correlated, not causal, not causal, but definitely there's
no correlation there. That's so funny, because I, it's, yeah, I wish I could enjoy weed, to be
honest. I get panic attacks if it's these days, but I used to love it. I have friends like this.
Yeah, it's weird. It's not worth it to me. I just like turns the volume of life up too, too loud for
like days. Stacey, okay, that gives me permission. I remember talking to Stacey on the phone one time
when she was, when she had a little bit and she was eating chips. It was so funny because she's
just like listening to me talk, which is like, like she's had the munchies and I was just laughing
my head off and I was like, this is so great. I remember having the munchies for the first time
and just being like a bit high and like it was so good. Can I try some, can I share something
slightly controversial? Yeah, go for it. I don't feel like, I don't feel like I could actually
properly think straight until after I started smoking marijuana. Oh, really? I was going to say
if it's, you know, you could think straight on marijuana. That's not controversial at all.
That's like it. Right. It was, it's very funny because like I don't deal with people who just
smoke just to chill. Like I lit, it's very hard for me to process and I, and this is one of those
things that like I couldn't even, I couldn't think through my own trauma and you know, that's kind
of how I realized like, holy shit, kid, you, you, you, you live the life because it was actually
after I started smoking that I was, that I actually gave myself permission to think through things
and to feel the emotions attached to those things and then sit on the other side of
those emotions and make some rational judgments and feel okay with that. And that was something
that I was not okay with before because there was always this idea and you know, again, this is
why I completely stress the danger of, of teaching these superstitious concepts to children.
I was always wrestling with this idea that God doesn't want me to think that way.
And so it created this torturous place where I always had these feelings that, that I wasn't
dealing with, that I wasn't, you know, wrestling with. And there was this part of me that was
always very rational and was like, I felt like was trying to get me to see certain things and I
wouldn't see them. And it, you know, again, it led me to a place where I was over 580 pounds.
I was literally crying like in my pillow almost every night for years on end. And then one side,
I ended up smoking a little bit and I started thinking and I was like,
this is all stuff you can, you can change. This is all stuff, you know, now that you've kind of
felt the pain over it, you have no power over these other people. And that's what you're crying
over. You're crying over other people. And the thing is, it's just time for you to acknowledge
how you feel about it and feel okay with it. And that just, it began a real, a real journey of,
of personal and mental health for me that I don't know if I'd be where I am today if, if I didn't
take that step. And I'm not saying that in any mystical way. I'm literally saying, I think I
was that mentally unhealthy dealing with the type of mindsets that I was raised by. And then just
adding on top of my deep indoctrination with the church, it didn't make a healthy person. It didn't
help make a healthy me. And so the last 10 years of my life was the first time I'm actually living
like a human being experiencing the world. Yeah, that's, that's actually so profound. I was, I was
talking to, I've talked to some friends and I was talking to my psychologist earlier this morning.
I had a psychologist session this morning. And there apparently there's a lot of research
that, that is going around about using things like psychedelics or marijuana in therapy sessions.
Of course, you'd have to go to a country where it's legal to do that. But in therapy sessions to kind
of, to kind of learn more about yourself in a, in a clinical setting. So like,
like, like, for example, you know, you do, you take some
psilocybin or something and you have someone talk you through that process. And you have these
negative feelings come up and then you explore them with a psychologist and it can be, it can do
like a lot of, a lot of years of treatment into like a very short time because you break down all
those walls. So there's, there's some really interesting research apparently coming out around
that. Yes. And so I don't, I don't deny it at all. And also I know so many people who just,
they just, they're so, and I'm not saying this was you, but they're so neurotic, they're so like
high strung that they, when they had to take, it just, it just brings them down to like a
normal level and they can like, yes. So yeah, I, I'm super intense and it's, it's like, I get really
wound up and it's, and it's not good at all. Like I get super stressed and like, oh my goodness,
if you saw what my blood pressure was, you'd be like, how are you alive? Like it's
I have the problem where I have to stop myself thinking about
deep drinks videos or interviews or concepts before when I'm, when I'm in bed, because otherwise
I'll hit this like, oh, that's a good idea. And then it'll like, and then I'll just,
I can't resist going down the creative rabbit hole and then I'll be up, up for like three hours
just like thinking about like, I have to stop myself because otherwise I just can't sleep.
Do you ever get like that? I do. It's actually something I've trained myself with. And so like
if my Google drive now has like five gigabytes of notes for me, what I do is I now force myself to
write and then as soon as I hit a moment where there's five to 10 minutes where I can't think of
anything new to write, I move on. And that, that's like, it's like my rubber band. All right. It's
been five to 10 minutes. You haven't come up with anything that you thought was worthy enough to
write that moment has passed. And, but just the fact that I've written it down, I feel safe with
that because I now know that, but when I pick back up on that, it'll be there. And that's what's
happening. That's how I wrote my first novel. It was, was just by committing to that, just write
and move on, write and move on. That's so good. You know, Stephen King, I wrote, I read Stephen
King's, I don't, I'm not a huge fan of his writing, his novels normally, but I read his book on writing,
like how to write. And he says, he never writes anything down because he said, it's a great way
to write a crap book because you, you know, if you don't remember it when he comes to writing,
I kind of disagree because like, I'll be driving in the car and I'll get this like creative
inspiration and I'll quickly pull up my phone. I'll be like recording and I'll be like,
blah, blah, blah, like this like witty one liner. And then I'll leave it. But if I don't do that,
I forget what the one liner is and all that emotional energy behind it just dissipates. And I
just don't, I just can't find it again. It's different for everyone. So, okay, so you're
growing up, you're in this rough situation. So how do you become a Christian?
Okay, so my journey to Christianhood happened and it's funny because I just realized it happened
shortly after Christmas because there was this Christmas that we were living with my mom's cousin
and for whatever reason, they had a dispute and he decided to take all the Christmas presents
and throw them outside on the road in the rain. And I just remember I got in trouble for this,
for whatever reason. So anyway, my mom started going to a little Pentecostal church after that,
that wasn't too far from where we were. And at that Pentecostal church, they started casting the
devil out. And that was interesting. Yes, they were casting demons out of it. And the churches
that I had been to with my families were not churches where they did stuff like that. They
were just churches where they sing hymns, you know, praise God from whom all blessings float,
like just very boring, mind-nominally painful stuff, you know. But this church was theatrical,
you know, and people were crying and welling and falling over the floor. And then my mom was like,
huckabucking, which is what we call it, and just drinking and stuff. And it was obviously like a
devil was coming out of it from a kid's point of view. And that's what the preacher is saying is
happening. And I have no reason to believe that the preacher is lying. And I'm thinking like,
oh, that explains everything. This is why she's not been a good parent. It was the devils. And now
this preacher is getting rid of the devils. And so I'm like, okay, so maybe this God that I've read
about in the Bible, maybe I misunderstood some things, this, this, because they're showing me this
version of an active God who has the ability to possibly make my mother a better person.
And coupled with this event, they're preaching about, you know, you need to serve the Lord and the
Lord will make this type of ability available to you. And I can imagine I was thinking, well,
surely I want this ability just in case the devils ever come back, maybe I can cast them out the next
time myself and, you know, be happy family. So I got saved shortly after that and decided to,
you know, like, man, if this God will save my mom, then maybe this God is worth knowing. And so
interestingly enough, the night I got saved, my mom kicked me out of or the day after the morning
after she kicked me out of the house. Long story short, it was, you will either serve me or you
will serve the church. And I said, well, I'm going to serve the church because at this moment,
you know, as a new believer, new Christian, I'm feeling like this is a test, like this is God's
faith to make sure my salvation stuck. And so I said, I'm going to serve the church. And so she
kicked my ass out. And what perfect wording as well, because like that, you serve me or serve the
church, it's like, it's so biblical, you know, it's like, it just sounds like a test from God,
right? Do what I say, or I don't want you living with me, that, you know, that makes sense. But
if it's served me also, like that's, yeah, that's crazy. I told you, my life has been like a movie,
like it is, it's like yikes. And interestingly enough, though, that kind of, for me at the time,
it emboldened my new faith, because it helped me identify with the disciples, and particularly
the apostle Paul, you know, who's rejected by everybody. And it's like, oh, God, yeah, you know,
like, yeah. For Paul, in Paul's instance, like, it was a bit of a day, let's be real.
You know, it was. But I felt, I felt special in that moment, like even, even while feeling rejected,
I felt special. But, but that's kind of the message of the gospel, you know, is that persecuted,
not abandoned, rejected, but not, I can't even remember all the words, but it's in
cast, trading my sorrows. I remember it because I sang it a lot. But it's just this idea that,
that you almost get like a, a divine high from being persecuted or from being rejected for Christ's
sake. You feel even more connected to this idea of Christ. And you think, surely, if I'm experiencing
this, then God must have his hands on me. And when I think about a lot of the language of the
sermons that, that I was surrounded by, that was the language. And I don't think any of those
preachers ever knew that there was going to be some 12 year old kid who was thinking about those
scriptures while, you know, being homeless after being kicked out by his mom. And I'd hope if they
would have known that, that they would think twice about, hmm, maybe this stuff that sounds
inspirational, isn't it always healthy? Because I definitely took a lot of stuff that I just,
that I heard at church on face value and figured that, no, surely everything they're saying from
the pulpit is healthy. And so I'm just going to do that. And I don't necessarily blame them for
that. I realized I was the fool. I don't, I don't make any, don't make me illusions about that.
But, but at the same time, a part of my process as a pastor was realizing, I don't want to say
stuff that's going to continue to embolden these negative and unhealthy behaviors and mindsets.
Because, you know, not saying that my mom was doing anything right, it's more so realizing that
instead of just being happy to be being homeless for a while for the sake of Christ, I should have
been seeking help. But even at that moment, help wasn't even on my mind. I was glad to be a sacrifice
for the Lord. It felt like it made my testimony special and unique.
Isn't that persecution complex? I don't know if it's a persecution complex, but it's the desire
to become persecuted. Martyr syndrome. Yes. Yeah. Martyr syndrome. Is that what it's called? It's,
because there's this, this is great meme. I think it was, I think it was, it was like a tick
tock or it was an image where it's like, it's like practicing, it's like practicing for when
they make Christianity illegal. And it's like someone like holding a boot on their head or
whatever. And it was like, this is a perfect representation because they're holding the
boot on their head. Like they're the ones who like they're desiring, you know what I mean? They're
desiring persecution. Yes. It's funny how like there's so many like kind of like perfect examples
like that. And like, I've had conversations with, with friends who, Christian friends who have told
me, you know, who they're, they're, they're alarmist when it comes to, you know, conspiracies or
something like that. And they'll come to me with all this stuff and say, blah, blah, blah, blah,
and finish it off with them. And I'll be arguing with them and they'll finish it off with, well,
Noah's, you know, Noah was trying to warn everybody to get on the boat. And I'm like, that's
actually a perfect example because that's myth, not history. Like, so that's actually a great
example of what you're, what you're saying, because what you're telling me now is mythology,
it's conspiracy, it's rubbish. And the usual example that is also mythology. So it's like,
this is perfect, like well done. Well, self, self burn, you don't usually get those. So you win.
Yeah, you win. So when you, so when you become born again, and you like speaking in tongues,
are you, how, how charismatic are you? I am, I am extremely charismatic. Like I remember other
kids telling me that I was a fundamentalist at the time, which I didn't know what that meant at
the time, but it was, in their word, it was like, you take the Bible way too literal. And it was
just because Noah, I've been filled with the spirit of God with the evidence of speaking in
tongues. I believe that we can lay hands on the sick and they would recover. I believe that we
could cast out devils. I believe that we could raise the dead. I believe that we could take
authority over cities and states. And otherwise, I, you know, I, oh, I was in it. Like I was,
because shortly after getting saved, I don't know if you remember, but in the States,
Rob Parsley was really big around those early times. And he was doing something called the
minion camp meeting. And Parsley is the, he was the spiritual son of Lester Somerall,
World Harvest Church was Lester Somerall's church. And Lester was the guy who would throw people
against the wall and stuff and cast devils out of little kids in their bedrooms, which is now an
odd story. None of that I think about that. But yeah, that's Rod. That's Rod. Oh, that's
older Rod. Why does he look like a rabbi right there? Oh, yeah. He used to do these huge events
called Dominion camp meetings. And they were so spectacular where he'd have people like Juanita
Bynum, Paula White, and just some of French, some French people like Varan Ash, and they'd be,
oh, and Bishop Long was there. And they just preached these kingdom messages like the kingdom
is here, the kingdom is now, and God is going to raise you up and you're a prophet to the nations.
And that was just so attractive to me, because it all kind of tied in with this idea of being
special, of being unique, of being set apart. And it's like, yeah, these are the real people,
they know what's going on. And it was, it was very interesting. But now I look back on it and I
realized like I was attracted to him for the same reason I was attracted to Lion King. It was a really
good show. And I mean, they really did put together just like a spectacular show, if you were a believer.
Now, if you weren't a believer, it was probably a little creepy looking from the outside,
looking in, because it's creepy for me looking back on it. It's very cringy.
There is, I know that feeling of like being one of you part of this like, this kingdom is now
taking on the world. Like we can, I used to go up the mountain and this mountain and when we
lived and we used to pray blessings over the community, take back the ground from the enemy.
And I remember man, this still gives me goosebumps. It's very well edited. I should play it. I hope
it doesn't get copyright strikes. But if it does, I would play it. It's 45 seconds. It's a promo
for the planet shakers conference. Let's watch this trigger warning.
But that, I mean, that was like that. I watched that so many times. It was like, yeah, set
apart. Everyone's having fun. And it was like so, it felt so empowering. And the whole planet
shakers thing and like the whole call for a purpose, it really fires you up. And like people
who go to these conference conferences are just, you know, you come back like ready to take on the
world of the Lord. And it's, it's, it's powerful stuff.
I mean, it does. I mean, it, it, it taps into something that, you know, that I do,
I do try to challenge other organizations to think about. And that's, you know,
humanity's need to feel impactful. You know, now I think while we can all agree that the
doctrine and the theology was very damaging. But the desire to want to impact the world around
you is very noble. It's just very sad that it got twisted up into a lot of the things that it got
twisted up into. But, but, but it does demonstrate that that ultimately, I mean, that shows you
that man, people do really get excited about knowing that they could possibly positively
impact the world around them. And we don't have to attach those feelings to fairy tales. We can
attach those feelings to actual real impact. You know, and stop bolstering up these shallow
facades of leaders, which, which is what we've gotten a lot of in the church world, or at least
what I saw. I won't put everybody back in basket. There were a few viral campaigns that have kind
of done that. Like Coney 2012. Remember Coney 2012? Do you remember that? It was, it's, it wasn't
Christian. But Coney 2012 was like this. This is like wall leader with these child soldiers over in
Wow, Uganda. And everyone was like, let's make him famous. Coney 2012 and wherever you were in
our location, like we had, there was like Coney 2012 written on the sidewalk. Everyone at a certain
date was supposed to like write put posters everywhere. It was a bit misdirected. But the whole
idea was to like bring attention to everyone in the world so that this Coney guy, Joseph Coney,
it didn't work very well. But, but I mean, it worked very well. But like the, the concept,
like he's still out there doing something. And I think he's almost dead. But he's a, he's like a
Christian extremist, you know, child soldier training or kind of thing. But there's some brutal
stuff. But there's a couple of viral campaigns that aren't religious, but it is something that has,
you need, you need to get everyone fired up for a, for a specific cause. It can't just be,
it's got to be like a set, a set thing. Like a, like it can't be like, we're raising money for,
I don't know, you know, kids in Africa or something. It needs to be like, we're going to stop
every child starving in Africa. It needs to be like something big by this date. And like, it needs
to be like this. Yes. So, so back to your story. So you're now a Christian, you become a leader
pretty quickly and then eventually become a pastor? Yes. Okay. So I spent 10 years,
roughly 10 years in various different roles. So shortly after I became saved,
I joined the music ministry of different churches. But then around the same time,
because my mom kicks me out, I ended up moving to DC, which I mentioned a little earlier,
living with my dad. And it's during this time that I end up getting kind of cultivated by this
word of faith church ended up going there with some friends from school. And this church is more
affiliated with people like Jesse to plan his Creflo dollar, Kenneth Copeland and things.
And, and the pastors of these churches are a little more,
I don't want to use the word intelligent, but that's the best word. They're more intelligent
than the church that I've been dealing with before in Alabama. And I'm not saying that about
Alabama, just about that. You know, there is a difference in churches, right? Like,
I remember going to run a small group at my brother's small group down in New South Wales,
and he was in a kind of a, like an Anglican Baptist kind of church. And I came down and I was like,
all right, guys, let's turn it into bibles to everyone. Open bibles. They all had bibles.
They all had notebooks. I was like, Oh, wow, this, this doesn't happen in my small group.
And I was like, great. And then I'm like, let's pray. And everyone's just like,
and I go to indecisory pray. And they're all like,
like, and I was like, Oh, that's the difference. Like our church is all like, pray, pray, pray.
And their church is all like, study, study, study, study.
Oh, yeah. Well, like I noticed for sure, like at the Pentecostal church that I got saved in,
it was more so, and I use this word a lot. And it kind of shocks people, but it's accurate.
It's more like, it's more so ancestor worship. So everybody's belief is just attached to the
last person that they really respected who said it. You know, it's not attached to any
real official doctrine. It's not attached to any understanding of scripture.
And it's very anti-intellectual because it was more like, you can't know God with your mind
anyway, these things have to be revealed. And the word of faith church was more
pseudo-intellectual. So it definitely had the appearance of intellect and definitely sounded
like it was intellect. It used words like research and linguistics and used words like,
Hey, when you actually study the Hebrew and Greek, this word transliterates to this.
And so it sounded really smart. And as a child, I was like, Oh, these people know what the hell
they're talking about. And I am definitely, I'm in the right place now. And then they were also like
visibly prosperous. And, you know, that was kind of part of the message that that's kind of how
you know that we're the ones with the real word, because God is blessing us. And I was like, you
know what, you might be right because the damn show wasn't blessing the ones at a little Pentecostal
church that I was going to. We were all struggling together. And I saw what you pulled up the church
in. You struggling as far from you. So, but you know, at this time, I think I'm around ninth grade.
And the pastor starts taking a very close interest into me. And that's reaffirming even more for
me that, Oh, do I say something might be special for you? Because again, I was an orphan at this
church. My parents didn't go to this church. I didn't have any relatives at this church. Just
came to this church with a friend. And these pastors see something special about me. They
bring me and sit me on the front row. And this is one of the churches that are on TV. And so the
camera gets me on the front row. And I had fallen asleep. But you know, but it was still a thing,
you know, it was still a thing. And but in all of this, I was becoming more and more steeped in
this theology. And at this time, it was the idea that God was raising up apostles, prophets,
pastors, and teachers. And all of me and all of my friends in high school, we were trying to
figure out which one we were. And we like, it's like a fixed thing too. It's like,
you got the spirit of an apostle, like, and it's like, yes, that's, that's literally like, Oh,
my goodness. It's like Pokemon types. It's like, I'm a fire Pokemon. I'm a water Pokemon. Like,
it's like that. Oh my God, that's probably what it was for us. Because that's what everybody else
doing, everybody else doing Yu-Gi-Oh! in Pokemon. And that was the money for us. So we had to,
we had to Yu-Gi-Oh! our own Pokemon. Got to catch them all, get all the gifts of the spirit, you know.
That's, you know, I live with a lady, a word of faith lady for a little while. And I bring home
this book, The Jesus Freaks, right, which is all about mothers who died. And she goes, I reject
that doctrine. And she goes, I, I believe in the doctrine of Nishak, Radshak, and Nibendigo, whatever.
And he's like, when they walk into the fire furnace and they were not harmed, I was like,
wait, we just like, was like, what do you mean, you just have to pick and choose? Like, it was
like this idea that you spoke things into existence. And I don't know if that's the same
as what you're talking about, but it was. But you know, that was actually an issue of dissonance
for me, right? Because that I remember people like that. And as I got older, I remember people saying,
the, the will of God will never lead, lead you where the power of God will not protect you.
And then I'm, and I was thinking like, well, how do you explain the disciples though? Because
the whole church history is like, like they die horrible deaths. And I don't, I'm not,
how do you explain Jesus in that sense? Because there's the whole, my God, my God,
why have thou forsaken me because the pain is so freaking bad? Like, like, what?
And I realized like, oh, so much of our religion is anecdotes. Holy crap.
I had, I had a Christian friend who wanted to be a missionary. He had the spirit of a mission,
Mary was like, there it is. And the mission spirit, whatever that is. And, and, and I brought up,
I was like, man, like, you can't sleep in like rough places. This is going to be tough. And
they were like, God's going to supply me with comfortable bedding. That's right. And I was
just like, if you're going to place where people are starving to death, and God's supplying you
with comfortable bedding, something's wrong in the universe. Like that's because priorities are
wrong. Like give the children some food. You know, like, you would have had a hard time convincing
me of that. Like, I would have, that would have went over my head at a certain point in my life.
I'm like, no, uh, no, you just don't understand God's will. You know, and what I wouldn't have
heard myself saying is that I'm more important than those starving children. God is going to make
it comfortable for me because I'm anointed. I'm a sign. I'm there for them. And that's really sick.
That's pretty damn bad. Yeah, it's like, yeah, it's this talking about like,
like internal internalized racism or like these presuppositions that we have that we don't realize.
That's another one. It's like, well, I'm a mission going to save the poor people.
And it's like, all right, it's a comfortable bed. Like, it's this, it's this, um,
it's this sixth, it's, it's, it's part of the human condition, really. I think I bet it's
something that we should be weary of. But yeah, so you're part of this, this,
this world of faith kind of community. And how, how did you, like, did you, did you feel
like you found like a father figure in, in these, um, in the, well, okay, just to bring it back.
Because, because I, because I really questioned like why I jumped head over heels into,
into the church. And I think there was a, when I was living in New South Wales with my, um,
with my mother, I remember one of the pastors company said, there's something on you, Dave,
there's something on you. You've got something special about you. I remember that I was stuck
with me. And I remember when I became, uh, when I really committed my life to God,
the youth pastor was like this shining beacon for me. It's like, I wanted to impress him.
He was impressed with me. I, there was a, there was a situation where I was, uh,
people, my friends, um, Tom and Chris and, and, and all that from school, they were,
they were calling God gay or they were saying something about God being gay, like they were
being really trying to be really insulting. So I stood up on a bench and I had this Bible in
my hand and I was like, God is not gay. And I was like, and I turned to one Corinthians,
something. And I was like, you know, not a homosexual will not inherit the kingdom of
heaven because that's what, you know, and he's in heaven. So there, and I was preaching like,
but as a joke, but at the same time that that was happening, um, the, the, the youth leaders
that invited me into youth group were coming to check on me and they just see me from a distance
with a Bible in my hand preaching. They tell the pastor and then I go to church that Sunday,
like only a Christian of one or two weeks and the pastor is doing a sermon and talks about like,
young David here up on a chair preaching the word of God at his church. And I'm like, uh,
I'm like, but like, it was, I was just kind of riffing on their joke and like trying to
defend God at the same time. And, uh, yeah, I definitely, for me, I think it was a big thing
was like having a, a father figure. Like my, my dad was around and I love my dad, but,
and everything, but I was having like a father figure, like someone who was proud of me and
that gave me this sense of identity that I could like latch onto and feel like I got this encouragement
that I'd always kind of wanted. So did that play a part for you at all? Like having this,
like sorts of identity or, or having a kind of father figure? Oh, definitely. Um, man, like, like,
ooh, uh, all of my mentors were people that I actually called father. Um, all of my mentors
in ministry and it was a major thing. This is your spiritual father. Um, and I, and I do know
that for a fact, because this was a part of my own, uh, personal deconstruction, um, that there was
a sense of validation, um, that I was seeking, uh, from the church world that, that I could not,
um, based on my context, find anywhere else. And that validation was like permission to be great.
Right. Um, and that's something that I found in the church world, or at least, you know,
I thought I was finding, as long as I fit the mold and it was just like, oh, you can be these great
things. And, and as a child, I always kind of felt like I could be something great,
but it wasn't until I started getting involved with, uh, Pentecostal and Charismatic churches,
where there were other people who were willing or seemingly willing to validate that greatness.
Um, that, that, that, that audacious purpose that you could change the world that, you know,
God's hand could be on you or anything like that. So I know for me, for a long time,
it was, I felt that I couldn't have any sense of validation for my own life if it didn't come
through God's institution. And God's institution was apparently the church. And then there was also
this societal context of that every child needs a father and that God is a father and that if you
don't have a father that something is, uh, tremendously wrong with you and you're not even
going to be able to view the world right until you get a father. And so I definitely remember that
there was a, a long period in my older ministry life where I was like, oh, I got to have someone
who's willing to father me in the faith or I'm not whole. I'm not a, I'm not a whole human being,
you know, as odd as that sounds, but it was a big, it was, it was a big part, which consequently
a part of my deconversion was realizing that I am a whole human being and I have no holes. So
like I have no, I'm not missing anything. I don't have a God size hole. I don't have a dad sized
hole. I don't have a mom sized hole. I'm a human being that was born on a, on a rock that we call
earth that's floating, you know, out here, you know, in the middle of a lot of stuff that we don't
even know what to call yet. And so life fricking happens sometimes and you got to adapt and adjust
and I realized like I had delayed so much of my life waiting for someone else to give me permission
to live. So, so definitely I was, I was looking for the church to give me permission to be free,
to give me permission to be a human being. And that was something ultimately that I had to give
to myself. You like, so it's like living reality on reality's terms. Yeah, pretty much. Like that's
one of, one of the things that I tell people, like I realized for the first maybe 28 to 35 years of
my life, I treated life like I thought it should be as opposed to actually paying attention to what
life was and that make a lot of bad decisions, you know, because I thought I could speak those
things that be not as though they were and that, and that it's just like I just keep speaking the
word because life and death are in the power of the tongue that things would eventually line up
with the word that I'm speaking because my word will not turn into me void. No weapon formed
against me shall prosper and all that jazz, you know, but not actually paying attention to like
they do, but that weapon did prosper. So next time you might want to get a shield, you know,
so like if you don't learn those things, you die. Like that's literally what evolution teaches us.
If you don't learn your lessons, you die. And I was killing myself, like over and over and over
again, literally expecting faith to do something that faith had never done before.
Wow. So, so you're in this church, you're a pastor, like you've been, you know,
you're a charismatic pastor, you're, I imagine that you're speaking in tongues, you've,
I guess you've got the, do you have the spirit of, what spirit do you have, the spirit of a
apostle ship or a pastor ship? So prior to becoming a pastor, in his backwards I know,
I was an apostle, that's, that's what I was known as prior to actually starting the church.
Once I started the church, I was known as an apostle for a while, but I started shifting
my theology and becoming very comfortable with the terminology of apostle, primarily because of
my age. And I was still somewhat of a rational thinker. And I was like, there are a lot of people
who are going to have a problem with people calling me apostle. And then that's going to make them
not even give me a chance. They're not even going to listen to what I have to say. So I decide
to just kind of drop all titles for a while and just go by my name. So that way people wouldn't
think that I was trying to be more than I was. And I had like a scriptural justification because
it was a scripture where Jesus says, if you receive a prophet in the name of a prophet,
you receive a prophet to reward, if you receive a righteous man in the name of a righteous man,
you receive a righteous natural. And so in my mind that became, well, who they perceive me as is up
to them. And however they perceive me as how they receive me. And so if they perceive me as just,
you know, a regular righteous minister, then, you know, glory to God. And if they receive me
as some apostle, then awesome, that's what they're going to receive from this. And that was kind of
like my flow. That's kind of to work. So how do you go from that? And I imagine talking to
Jesus every day and believing in the scripture Jesus to now no longer believing like what's the
like, what's the catalyst that that core core, what was the sin that you wanted to sin so badly
that you rejected all of these? No, that's that question that way. Because I actually do have
an answer for that specific question. What was the sin? Free thought. That was the sin for me.
Getting to 2014, and realizing that I had not been critically engaging my own life,
I realized I had imprisoned myself. And so at that moment, I knew for a fact that I had
lived my life according to what I believed was the leading of the spirit of God. And it had led me
nowhere. It had caused me just I mean, just just imagine living your life without managing your
life. That's that's what it did for me. And so at that moment, I decided I don't care.
Doesn't matter to me. If you're real, and you let me do this, then I don't care. You're not a good
person. And so I want to critically engage my life and actually make the decisions that I think I
should be making. And if those decisions are wrong, I will deal with the consequences. I am no longer
okay casting my cares on an imaginary friend, doesn't feel good anymore. And if you don't want to be
an imaginary friend, don't act like one. But as of now, for the past 30 years, you've had a pretty
solid act as an imaginary friend. And I can't pretend like that's that's not what it was.
When people ask me today, like, why are you an atheist? I'm just like, because I have a good memory.
Like, I prayed hard. I was a good prayer. I prayed a lot. I still speak in tongues. Like I was sincere.
And God never showed up. And when God didn't show it up, I always counted it to God and just said,
well, he's righteous anyway. Nevertheless, not my will be done, but your will be anyway. Perhaps
in you not answering me right now, you're actually drawing me closer to you. You know, these are
ways that I rationalized this for nearly 30 years. And after 30 years, for me, it was like, no, enough
is enough. I've done this long enough where there's no good reason for me to justify this behavior
anymore, especially as a father, I have kids, and I don't want to condemn them to this type of life.
This is not what I want them to think that this is how you should live your life in service to
your own vain imaginations. Wow, you know, when I was Christian, I had really bad,
last few years as Christian, I had really bad panic attacks. I was going through a season of
anxiety. And most nights, I would spend like sometimes pacing up and down the street vomiting
from just anxiety attacks. And I remember walking to the end of the street one night
and praying to God and saying, God, like, I really need you to take these. And then I stopped. I was
like, do I really want to pray this? And I was like, because what if God's using these panic
attacks to make me into the person that I need to be? And I stopped myself from praying to remove
the anxiety attacks. And I look back at that now, it seems similar to what you were saying with
like, when something doesn't like, I didn't pray about it. Well, I prayed, I prayed a lot about
my anxiety. But this one night, I was trying to ask God to remove them for good or like remove
this season. And then the thought came that God was using them. And so that if you pray and it
doesn't happen, it's like, well, God's either going to say yes, he's either going to say no,
or he's either going to say like wait, or it's not his will, which is the exact same
answer that you get from praying to a bucket of potatoes.
Yeah, exact same answer you get from a potato, you know, potato, holy potato, give me $500 so I
can go see Taylor Swift. And then it's either yes, someone gives you $500 or you get an extra shift
at work. No, you don't get it. And Taylor Swift is actually the enemy. And or wait, and you can
go see Taylor Swift next year. You know, it's like, it's yeah, look, I don't like Taylor's music
hugely like she's okay. But I like Taylor, I think she's cool. Like I think she's
I have no problems with Taylor. I can't think of any of her songs right now. But I know I know
someone sings one, I don't know. Yeah, my wife loves it. I think it's just been overdone for me.
And the same with Harry Styles, like his music, I'm not like, like, it's all right, whatever.
But you know, he's a person fucking love Harry Styles. Like he's, oh, yeah. Yeah, yeah, I get it.
I have some people like that. I have some people like that with music. I'm like,
but who they are as people, I'm like, Oh, this person is kind of legit. I like this.
Yeah. Sorry about the rent. That was a random aside and a sensitive moment of the podcast.
But that's what the alcohol does to you. But so how did that so that process you like, okay,
you've made the commitment to yourself to God that you're going to start
analyzing your life and kind of pursuing intellectual honesty, rather than just
believing what you've already already believed. What does that look like? What do you start to do?
How does that change? How does your life change?
I immediately stopped. And I go through a divorce at this time.
It was a major life shift. And I don't want to paint it as I think the people that it was
the most traumatic for what were my children, which were my two sons at that moment for now.
We're a blended family, beautifully blended. But the decision was ultimately,
we actually for my sons, because this, as I said, I started critically engaging my life and
realized that the version of marriage that I was in was not something that I wanted
my kids to think was something they should strive for, aim for, or even stay in.
It was, it was, it was not healthy. And the thing is, and I like to stress this, it wasn't,
my, my, my former wife wasn't a mean person. She wasn't a bad person or anything like that.
But we were completely incompatible, trying to make ourselves fit because
we were married. And this is what you were supposed to do in the church world. And,
I mean, at this point, we barely talked to each other without arguing.
And I remember like my son looking up to me one day like, Dad, is this what is,
what is it going to be like when you leave? And I'm like, how in the heck is he
picking this up at this young of an age? And at the time he may have been five or six.
And just thinking like, okay, I've lived my whole life following what I thought was the will of the
Lord. And now I'm giving myself permission to make decisions. And so those decisions were,
I'm not going to pastor anymore. Not, not, not while I feel like this, it feels disingenuine.
I don't believe this anymore. So I'm not qualified to be anybody's pastor. I still love those people
very much. That was a hard decision for me. But then the second thing was, I cannot be your husband.
I'm going to disappoint you. You're not going to like who I'm becoming. You're not going to like
the conversations that are coming. If you didn't like me before, this is about to get really,
really dark. And it did. Because I had, you know, based off my own childhood, I had a lot of trauma
to unpack. And finally kind of come face to face in face to face with and figure out who I wanted
to be in this world. And what I wanted to do with my life and what, what relationships were,
you mean, what relationships weren't. And I knew for me, marriage was important to me even before
I'd become a Christian. Because somehow even as a child, I had seen marriage as partnership
in my head. I didn't see it in real life that way. But I guess maybe it was the television shows
I watched. Marriage was partnership. And I realized I didn't have that in my former marriage.
And I wanted my kids to see that. And I felt even though that God didn't give me that right,
I felt like I could give me that right to want a better version of marriage for my kids and for
all people involved. Because I wanted to be the best father I could be in the best husband
that I could be not just for some, you know, trophy sake, but so that we actually have a
functional family. And I'm not looking back 20 years from now, thinking like, holy crap, I messed
everybody up. And I almost feel like if I would have stayed on that previous trajectory, that's
what it would be, you know, like my kids would be out here like struggling and stuff, trying to figure
stuff out because dad is so preoccupied with playing with his imaginary friend. And I say it
that way. And I know that's triggering for some people, but that's the only way I remind myself
how foolish what I was doing really was. So it's not for me.
Did you do you remember when you like first started investigating things? What did you
investigate? And then was there a moment when you realized, Oh, I don't believe anymore.
Well, that was, I think that was kind of the thing for me. I read at a young age that the only
unforgivable sin was blasphemy against the Holy Spirit. So I was always terrified of this
hidden thought in my mind that maybe this isn't real. And so I fought really long and hard to
fight that voice because I felt like if I ever entertain that voice, I might be committing
an unforgivable sin. Yeah. Because no one ever defined blasphemy. It's like, apparently it's
a really hard word to define. So I always thought it was where you know something is the Holy Spirit
that you didn't you don't you say it's not or something. I still get I still get scared of
that because, you know, I, I would have died for my faith. Yes, I'm not that confident in my
disbelief now. I'm not that confident. Like if someone held a gun in my head and said,
you tell me, do you really believe in God? Like, I don't know. Like, I'm not that confident that
I'll take a bullet. Like, you know, it can't be a God, but I just don't have any good evidence.
I'll say that a different way. I am I am that confident, but I'm not going to take a bullet.
I am will it. I am so confident that he doesn't exist that I'm willing to lie at that moment.
Yes, I believe in God. I love Jesus. We're best friends. Like, this keeps me alive. You're dang
skippy. Oh, God. Dr. Matt Monger, when he was in some really rough part in Africa,
like being a missionary with his kids and family, and he was learning the Muslim
call the faith or call the prayer, whatever the thing is that shows that you're a Muslim,
and he was like learning it because he was so scared. He was a Christian,
because learning it was so scared that he was going to be taken hostage,
and he's going to have to pretend, oh, I'm a Muslim now. He can't kill me.
Yeah, that's self-preservation at that moment. Like, I don't think anybody should die over their
abandon air crane. I think that's taking it too far. And I'm going to stop saying that, probably.
But just don't worry about it. Just blame me on the alcohol.
I don't think anybody should do that. Like, if someone puts a gun to your head
and they're serious, number one, recognize that person is sick. Okay, so there is no other right
answer than the answer they want to hear. So give them that answer, live, and then call the police
later. But no, but like you, there was a point in my life where that I would have died for Jesus.
If you would have put a gun in my head and said denounce Jesus, I believe so strongly
that if I do this, I'm not going to be able to spend eternity with my Lord and Savior,
and then I'm going to be a disappointed my Christ, that I would have killed myself for no reason.
And that's how I see that now. Now I see that as like, dude, you could have lied. It's like a scene
out of Game of Thrones. When Tyrion tells the gentleman, Jon Snow, you really need to learn how
to lie. You know, and I would have definitely, no, no, you put a gun in my head now and asked me
any type of foolishness about fan fiction. Yes, Superman was the greatest, whatever. Can I go now?
Mm hmm. That's what I was when I was, when I was a struggling Christian, I went to Planet
Sheka's conference and I think it was 2010. And I just lost the job as a youth pastor. I was still
struggling. I was down there with a buddy. We're down in Melbourne. And one of the last nights
they had this, this moment where they're like, we're going to just have silence in the auditorium,
3000 people. And when you feel it, you're going to stand up and shout, I want the cross, like
because you want to, I guess you, you want to sacrifice yourself like Jesus did. And everyone
was like, I want the cross. I want the cross. I want the cross all through the auditorium.
And I was sitting there waiting for the moment where I felt cold to stand up and never came.
And that's, I realized something. There was a chink in my, I was like, I'm just not there yet.
And I was like, I've been down that road. It burnt me really bad with the youth pastor job and
everything. It really hurt me. And I was like, and I was like, but I still believe in Jesus,
but I'm just, I'm not, I don't feel cold. I don't want to lie. I don't want to stand up and say,
I want the cross when I don't, and I just didn't do it. I needed it in my body, I don't think,
but it's like, whoa, like that really, that really hit me. It's like, I don't want the cross, you
know, like. There was definitely a time of my life where if I could have been killed for the faith,
I would have, I would have felt like I did something meaningful. And it was actually
reflecting on stuff like that, that definitely fueled my deconversion. What was like, like,
you didn't see yourself as valuable to your children. You didn't see yourself. And to me,
after just kind of getting a more rational understanding of the world, it's like, hey,
you brought your children into this world. And like, you really don't give a damn what happens
to them because you're so enthralled in this faith. And as a black man, that was, that was a hard
thing to wrestle with. And it was like, oh, that's, you know, especially as one who had a father who
didn't. And honestly, my father is not someone that I would, he, you know, he wouldn't say he's
saved, but he would define himself as a Christian, but I wouldn't define myself as a Christian.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. He used a lot of scripture to justify a lot of his bad behavior, you know,
and his absence. And while I could be extremely judgmental of himself, I realized that in my,
in my early years, I was doing the same thing. I just thought I had a more righteous tone to it.
That like, I wasn't, you know, I had, I had, you know, gone through the work of bringing children
into this world and, you know, knowing what type of country I lived in and not,
not even concerning myself or like, Hey, one day, if they want to be able to, you know,
kind of make a decent living, they're going to need to have a better understanding about
things around them. And perhaps college would help that. Have you thought about how you're
going to help them get there? And it was like, no, God will take care of that. And it's like, oh,
no, that's, that's, that's, this is not, this is not a good strategy.
But in those, though, those were the critical thoughts that, that I had not allowed myself
to engage before, and that I had been afraid to allow myself to engage. Because I felt like
saying that, Oh, no, God might not take care of my kids will lead to me realizing like,
Oh, no, that's probably because there's probably not a God or at least not the type of God you
think. And so maybe you should just kind of focus on getting things done. And it was really
shameful for me that that's how I had to learn that. But, and that's why I warn people like,
like this is, it's not just, you know, believe this is this is way of life. And if you believe
that there's a God who's paying your bill, you believe there's a God who's working out miracles,
you believe there's a God who's paying your cost, then it does give you avenue to excuse your own
inactivity and rob yourself of agency and autonomy in your own life. And that's what it did for me.
Like, I, I love myself so much more on this side. Now that I realize it was me messing up the whole
time. Like, I don't, I don't see myself an angry atheist, like I'm not angry at God, because I
don't believe in God. It's like, dude, you allowed yourself to follow an imaginary voice in your
head, which ultimately was you. So what you really found out is for a good bit of your life,
you were trying to be lazy. And maybe it's okay, because there was a theology that encouraged it.
But yikes, now you got to do that. You know, to heavenly mind and for any earthly good.
That's it. Yes. I told my little brother, Leo, what good's a college degree in heaven?
He was living in high school. And he was a good point. And now he's 30 and just finished his
IT degree because he waited. You're right, Dave, I should continue to work at the supermarket
as a casual. That's a much better life plan. You know, people have no idea how
type of advice is in the church world. We do that. We do that to people. I did it. I did it to people.
We yikes. Oh, goodness. So I remember I was watching these because after because I
interviewed you on the skeptic, the skeptic Avan secular soapbox. And that was the first
time I heard parts of your story. But I've recently since then gone back and rewatched the episode
you did. Well, I'm halfway through watching the episode you did with the Stacey's Moms podcast.
And that was the first time you say that that was the first time that you said
that you called yourself an atheist publicly. So I guess what has it been like since you've
done that? Have you had any backlash from people or friends or family or any of that? Well, a lot
of the backlash came from me like 10 years ago when people found out that my family wasn't doing
Christmas. And like, that was enough. Didn't didn't even have to go to Jesus and God. Like,
that was enough. What you weren't doing Christmas. Yep. Yep. They found out that that for that year,
my wife and I, we weren't going to do a Christmas tree. Oh, that's right. You said that you told
it. Yeah, that's right. That's right. Okay. And everybody freaked out. It was like,
holy snap, Durante's like a part of a cult or something now. And it was just because I told
you I was allowing myself to critically engage my life. And I was like, Hey, bro, you're poor,
you're really, really, really, really poor. And this is not a smart move for poor people.
So you can choose not to participate. You don't have to feel the societal pressure
or the religious pressure to participate in something that is not beneficial to you
or your family. And so I didn't, you know, and, and people were like, Hey, that's one
imaginary friend too far. You're getting a little too close to the other ones now,
you know, North Poland, heaven are really close together. So they're like, you're talking about
Santa, you're coming for Jesus next. And so, but like, when I when I say freaked out,
my mother in law threatened to take our children. I lost my job.
I got accused of like criminal activity and had to fight a felony for two years.
What? And is this only like surely were you all were you not doing Christmas and selling guns
out of the trunk of your car or was it like there has to be something else that went along with
that? Like I can't imagine anyone like you're not doing Christmas. Give us your kids. That seems
it was it was you're not doing Christmas. There's a spirit of witchcraft over your life.
Oh, okay. You know, you're not doing Christmas. The devil is manipulating.
Yeah. And then once the once the charges came out, because I was working for a Christian
organization when these things happened. And it was a Christian organization that levied the
charges against me. And so once the charges came out, and I was talking to a certain family member
in my family, they said, Well, why do you think this is happening? And this was this was an aunt,
someone who would actually, you know, taken apart and raising me. And I and I told her and I said,
I think it's because they found out I don't believe in Jesus anymore.
And this person said, Well, then maybe this needs to be happening.
That was if they were thinking that was going to help bring me back to the faith.
They did not understand where I was at that time.
My mind. Because if anything, it helped mature me. It helped for me to realize like,
holy snap, Durante, you've not really had a family. These people are children.
This is why life has been very hard for you. You know, you thought you were being raised by adults
and you were being raised by children. So at that time, I did decide to,
to keep my wife's family happy. Because at that time, I didn't care about my family anymore.
They were, I hate to sound like an elitist, but they were beneath me at that moment.
But I wanted to keep the peace for my children and I wanted to keep the peace for my wife.
So I decided it would just be an internal conversation. And so for the next decade,
I lived my life not talking to anybody about my atheism or my humanism to anybody other than
my wife and my children. And I actually, for a while, tried to still kind of live in both worlds.
I did try to pastor a Baptist church for like three months. Decided it wasn't a good idea
shortly after. And I tried to still communicate to Christians and try to lead them out of the
faith without actually saying that I'm an atheist. And that didn't go over too well either. I tried
to do everything I could to not have to say and not have to be. And then after 10 years, I was like,
this is, it's not healthy. And I remember I actually called one of my friends as part of the
LGBTQ community. And I apologized to them. And I was like, because for the first time in my life,
I actually know what it feels like to have to pretend to be something I'm not to make other
people comfortable. And that is not cool. It's not okay. And so 2020, 2024, I told my wife,
I said, I'm, I just can't do it anymore. I said, me being a preacher was never about Jesus.
That's my personality. Me talking about the things that are important to me. That's who I am.
I'm not letting anybody rob me of that anymore. So whether I am an atheist or I'm a Jedi
worshiper, I'm going to talk about it. God damn it. And, and so, you know, every since I've kind
of made that decision, surprisingly, my channel blew up, which I didn't expect. And if I was a
Christian, I kind of feel like it was a cruel joke being played by God. Like how the freak did
this happen all of these years. And this is the thing that gets it. But I also get it that
there is a market for this, there is a niche market for this, I do exist as somewhat of a
non anomaly because of my experience, because of my race and because of my academic background.
But you couldn't have told me even five years ago that hey, Durante, people will actually
appreciate or value what you have to say. Because by that moment, by that time in life,
I felt like because I wasn't a pastor anymore that I had nothing else value would offer to people.
You know, that that's that type of nihilism that you you do deal with for a moment.
But then at the same time, I also realized that the things that I was offering to people
never came from any supernatural place anyway. It was always just me and just me doing the things
that that I thought were right. And so yeah, it's been interesting. How do you square away
things like speaking in tongues or the miracles? I remember I wrote I didn't write it down, but
there was there was some way you mentioned you just briefly passed over in one of your past
interviews. Like, I wasn't tent revivals, but it was something like it was some sort of
like, I don't know, healing extravaganza or something like how do you reconcile maybe I'm
maybe I'm getting it wrong, but there was something that has some spirit.
Yeah, yeah. This is why people come here for the poignant, perfect,
non-mombly questions that I I can't even get that out. This was my best interviewer in the world.
Well, you know, well, healing healing, I separated from early on in my ministry because I was a
healing evangelist for a while. And then I realized that that the things that were taking place were
not things. Oh, thank you. Yeah, yeah, church planner years. The things that that happened were
things that couldn't be verified as miracles. And I wrestled with that a lot. And then I realized,
okay, so and God was never like, God was never like really good with his miracles. So people would
like get healed of a headache. But the little old lady who had cancer for, you know, 20 years could
never get healed. And I carried the burden of that being in a service where somebody gets healed
of diarrhea or headache. And then I have other people there who I know have like serious symptoms.
And they're not getting any healing. And it's not lost on me that the people who have
symptoms that can't be verified are getting healed. But the people that would be a visible
miracle are never, ever, ever getting healed. And I decided that, you know, even before just
being willing to say, Hey, they're not getting healed at all. Nobody's been healed. I just decided I
didn't want to be responsible for somebody coming to a service, believing that they were going to be
healed. And then leaving, you know, questioning whether God loved him. For me, that was just like
way too heavy of a burden to bear. So and I remember praying this like, and I had to be like
22 years old, like, Hey, God, if you're going to heal people, you're going to have to do it.
I'm not saying anymore. You know, so that's the thing you want to do. That's okay with me,
you know, but I am never again getting up in the service saying God is healing people. Like, I didn't
want that. So healing, I, for the most part, do view as a complete scam. And it's not always a scam
that the people orchestrating even know that they're committing, you know, it's really a lot of stuff
with pastors is monkey see monkey do. I saw my pastor do this and things happen. And even the
believers themselves, you know, they're, they're responding to what they've seen, you know, someone
laid hands, other people fell out, and they said, I feel something. And then just feeling something,
then you'll say, Oh, I feel something God must be healing me. So let me testify that God is healing
me. But because no one is there to, to, to engage these things critically, there's no nuance for
that. So healing. But speaking in tongues, that one is still interesting to me. Because even as a
believer, I just felt like speaking in tongue was gibberish. I thought it was wholly gibberish.
But I did feel like it was gibberish. And so like, I realized, even while I was still a tongue
talker that like, okay, there's nothing supernatural happening. And I still kept speaking in tongues.
And actually, to this day, I still speak in tongues, like I don't, I don't do it like I used to,
like where I'm like serious and praying and shaking stuff and all of that. But like, I'll just
catch myself every now and then. But interestingly enough, there have been studies on speaking in
tongues, nothing that, that, you know, suggests that there's an existence of a God or spirit wholly
or otherwise that is doing the thing. But just how the ability of just speaking gibberish can really
help the mind to focus, which is actually something we already knew, which is how we, which is why
there's so many religious movements that focus on trance, a chance and stuff like that, to get them
into trance type of states, you know. And so, so no, like speaking in tongues is like one of the
most natural things that I still pull from the charismatic faith. Just because it was so, so
weird to me. And the one thing that was, that was very clear to me is that everybody who was
speaking in tongues was copying somebody else they had heard. It was like, like, this is obvious,
like this is, it was obvious to me, but it was like something that you couldn't say. Nobody
wanted to say it, but I'm like, this is clear. And we all know that these are not words we're
speaking. This is not any type of language. And so even when I was preaching it to my congregation,
I would tell them it's like a baby's language is like, you know, a baby is just speaking gibberish.
And it's not the words that really matters. It's the emotion behind those words. And that was really
just my attempt to try to humanize this really weird experience that we were having. But ultimately,
that was the experience. It was be like, people just be like, and like they're putting all these
facial emotions and intonations on the words. And that's really where the emotion is, where you
don't know what the hell they're saying. But like, oh, they're being serious right now. You know,
like you can kind of catch it, catch it that way. But other than that, I find it completely
useless for the most part, but I don't, I don't find it harmful outside of the superstition.
It's, I'm also an actor way back when, and so we used to have to do stuff like mama made me
mesh my M&Ms. So I was already used to speaking gibberish to do stuff like that was already part
of my, you know, my flow. And I think that made it easy for me to be a preacher as being an actor
like that. Yikes, that sounds bad when you say it out loud, but I definitely think that's made it
easier. Do you think so? There's an old saying like, why doesn't God heal MPTs? I think there's
a website. Why doesn't God heal MPTs.com or.net or something? Yeah, it's a really good question.
Because if God's healing people, that he's performing a miracle that obviously can be,
people say it's proof. It's like, well, why doesn't he, why is there no cases of
God healing MPTs? As a Christian, I would have said, well, there is evidence,
like the Smiths and Lugelsworth who. Absolutely, John G. Lee, sure. Yeah. But I wonder, like,
if there was, if there was evidence, like say like me and you, we discover evidence. I don't know,
I don't know what would count because even videos can be doctored now. But let's say there's
some, it meets the standard of this person was prayed for and their legs grew back. And like,
we were convinced by the evidence. Like, what would that, what would that mean for you, for your,
for your worldview? But that, because for me, like, I would still have so many things to square
away. Like, let's say, let's say for some reason, it's definitely the Christian God and, and, and,
and like, it's definitely a Christian prayer and the, and definitely the legs grow back. I still
have to, I have to question my psyche. I have to question, you know, the foundations of evidence.
But let's say, like, forget all that. Let's say that we're somehow convinced. But what would that
mean, I guess, for your worldview or theologically? What would that mean? It's because I would have
to square away so much. Like, I'd have to become a Christian who doesn't believe in Bible inerrancy.
I'd have to accept that God is okay with, like, letting some people never have their legs grow
back and let some people get killed and starved and raped to death. But he's okay killing this one
person. I'd have to, like, it'd be very, it'd be very, very, very difficult to, to believe that.
Yeah. I know why would you approach it? I like the way you segue it into it with, with the aspect
because like, the first thing is that, you know, a part of being a Christian is accepting,
attaching yourself to a belief without evidence. And so the first thing I realize is that we're
really not good at evidence. And that was one of the first things I had to admit about myself,
that I was willing to be convinced of things that I had no, no, no evidence for. So one of the biggest
things that I realized about the difference between my worldview now and my worldview then is that my
worldview then is that would have been enough for me to believe that the Christian God was real and
that Jesus was his son and that Jesus was born of a virgin and that that, and that he was crucified
on Calvary and rose after three days, even though that event does nothing to specify any of those
things. So now, if such a thing was to happen, if someone prayed a Christian prayer and it let
grow back, I still have no guarantee that it was the Christian God who responded to that prayer.
So because I allow myself to critically engage now, it would do very little to my worldview
about a God. It would only do something to my worldview about the supernatural.
It would make me, it would say, okay, if I believe that this actually happened, I would say, ah, so
we do live in a world where the miraculous is possible, but I could not rationally make this
jump that Yahweh is God and Jesus is his son because, you know, and that's the major difference
between me now and then. Yeah, yeah, yeah, it's like you can get to the experiences that
I've forgotten a lot of them, but there are experiences that my answer at this stage is,
I don't know what happened there. Like, I don't know, but I'm not saying that I think that
supernatural existed, but let's say it did exist. I don't know what happened there, like,
because other religions have other experiences that are very similar to the experiences that,
you know, like, so I don't know. I don't know what I don't know what's happening there. Yeah,
I don't know. That's the thing that that's what I tell my wife now is like the greatest freedom for
me now is that I don't consider myself a super intelligent person. It's like I get to embrace
my ignorance. That's the beauty is I get to say I don't know and I don't feel it necessary to an
attach opinion to attach an opinion or something that I don't know. I don't feel it necessary to
when attaching an idea to something that I don't know. I'm intrigued that I don't know what I would
like to learn, but until I've learned, I don't feel like I have to make something up, which I do
feel like when I was a Christian, I felt like when I didn't know, like, I either had to pretend
to know or I had to have a good reason not to know the fact that, well, no, I've not been introduced
to this particular experiment yet. So I don't know. And on this side, I feel very comfortable,
like, no, I don't, I don't, I don't know what this is. Like, ask me about quantum entanglement
and I'm going to be like, Oh, I don't know. You know, it's actually funny enough. That was my next
question. Yeah, because there was this brilliant demonstration by Richard Dawkins, I think it was.
The way to explain it is essentially like, if you want to have like 100 people in a room,
you split them in half and say, you guys are heads, you guys are tails. And then you cross,
you, you, and you say to those people, will this coin into existence that this coin is going to be
tails or heads? And then you flip the, you flip a coin, it's tails. Okay, now half this crowd,
you know, out of the 50, 25 is heads, 25 is tails and will it into existence? And then you would
do that again. And then it was half of 25, 12 and a half, 12 people and 13 people,
one wheel to the heads, one to the tails. And you do that for a bunch of times. And eventually,
you get to a spot where someone, the last person has willed the coin into existence and got it
right nine times in a row. That's 100 people. Now imagine that the 2000 people imagine that
with 500,000, imagine that with the population of the earth, right, that that person, it would be,
it would be extraordinary. It'd be like, it'd be like, this is a miracle. It's hundreds of times
I've gotten this coin right. And then you think about a coincidence on that level, we know that
they're not actually building the coin into existence, but a, the coin to come to a certain
heads or tails, but we know, but that coincidence plays out, has to statistically play out every day,
hundreds of times for hundreds of people. And it doesn't have to be that one coin flip
coincidence can be anything. And this is where people go, how do you explain that? Well,
with a large enough time scale and large enough numbers, you have like crazy
coincidences and miracles and things happening all the time. Like, let's say if you say to God,
show me the number 72 and then something happens. That's actually not, and that shows you 72.
That's not actually that big of a miracle. Like that, that's probably happens hundreds of times,
you know, a day, even in your just local area. Like,
that was actually the beauty of getting a degree in sociology for me was, was learning,
like really these, the phenomenons of large numbers, because this, this happens so often. So,
you know, every time someone says, Oh, the Simpsons predicted something, and I'm like,
so does the Simpsons have, and do you know how like, like the Simpsons have been going on
literally since I was a kid, kid, you know, I'm not that anymore. And so like, you're dealing with,
with such statistical, such statistical odds that that you're not, you're not willing to wrestle
with that. And that's something I realized before, like you could have painted, you could have shown
me a picture of a cloud at one point in my life that looked like an angel. And I would have said,
Oh, that means the God of the Bible is looking over us. You know, because it's, you know, I tell
people superstition is all about shortcuts to reason. It's like, I don't want to have to take the
long way there. And the quickest route there is the way I want to go. And that did serve our species
well for once upon a time, does not serve us well. Now, though, I remember being in Taft or
staying at my, my, my nann's house. And with my mom, and we were watching cartoons that morning,
there was a fish. And I knew we were going fishing later that afternoon, there was a cartoon on the
fish and a fish on the cartoon. And I said, Mom, this might be a sign that we're going to get
a fish today. And I think mom said, like, yeah, yeah, it might be, it might be, we could get a fish
today. Like, we, I don't think we did get a fish, but I was, but I remember, but I remember thinking
about that. Like, I remember that's, that's memory. That's, and that's superstitious thinking. That's,
that's, that's, that's like, we see, you see a sign and you see, you attribute it to
Absolutely. Yeah. And I often, I often, I often remind us that we do not get these superstitions
from religions. We think we get them from religion. And I say, I think that's the wrong
way to look at it. I think we need to remember that religions were not given to us by the gods.
We crafted them ourselves. And so they get their superstitions from us. We gave them
our superstitions. We, we, the same way we gave our politics, our superstitions. So in America, we
have America for the Americans and, and Lady Liberty and the good old days, all of these are
stupid. Anybody who believes up the good old days of the past is has a superstitious way
of viewing life. This is like, like reality. And so it's not just religion that we're
superstitious. We're superstitious about family. We're superstitious about biology many times.
This is why some people have trouble with pronouns. We're superstitious about nationality.
We're superstitious about which side of the globe we live on. We are a superstitious species
because we have not learned to call it out yet and to evolve from that place. It is very
comfortable for us to hold on to our superstitions because it's wonderful and it's cozy and it's
comfortable. But now it is literally choking the life out of our relationships with other people.
And so we've got to learn how to wrestle with that.
I love that. So I got a couple of questions that I want to like wrap up on because
your story is phenomenal and you've got a lot of your... you have a real way with words and
being in my heart passive for so many years probably. It's giving me that. But
everyone check out Rante's channel. As I brought on Eric from skeptics and scoundrels,
just subscribe to Rante's channel. I haven't watched any content yet but some nails game
is going on. Well done. Really, really, you're kicking goals over there. It's really great.
So links in the description. I want to ask you though, what if anything would change your mind?
Okay. Can you ask me a more specific version of that question? Like are we telling my mind
about the existence or choosing to serve that God? No. So let's say you're an atheist.
Let's just bring it to the question of atheism and theism. So I imagine if you were a theist,
you probably wouldn't be a Christian theist anymore because of what you know about the
Christian God. But let's say that you... like what would change your mind that there is a God?
Just like it doesn't have to be a specific God but there is a creator. Let's use like
God of classical theism, like the watchmaker or whatever. Oh, beautiful. Beautiful. Honestly,
for that, it would not take much. Just reasonable evidence. In that sense, because I'm not a verse
to the idea of a creator existing. At this moment, as an atheist, I simply exist and default that I
have no reason to believe. And that was literally my place in 2014 is just like, hey, I don't have
a reason to believe this and I'm pretending like I do. But if I had any evidence or any reason to
believe that there was a God, I'd be more than happy to acknowledge that existence. I am not a
verse to the existence of a God. I'm definitely a verse to the existence of a God who's almighty,
all powerful, all known. For that God, I would have some questions. But for a God in the maybe
extreme theist or removed theist or theistic sense, a God who exists at the beginning of time,
who is the origin of causality, but is yet not intervening with reality. Otherwise,
I have some questions. A God who is removed from reality that we have evidence of, I wouldn't be
a verse to, I'd absolutely find fascinating and want to know more about this God. But I would
not feel any need to worship it or any need to serve it in any great way. Because regardless
of that God's existence, I still have at least four billion years of history of that God's absence.
Well, there you go. Cameron Batuzzi of Capturing Christianity, Michael Jones,
Eric from Testify Apologetics, you have it. I'll put myself in the same boat. If you can
show evidence, reasonable evidence of this Creator, we will become theists. This is a
challenge. Someone clip this, please send it to them. I would love to see evidence
that would get me to go from atheist to theist, reasonable evidence. Because
Capturing Christianity, Cameron often tweets out, by the way, Christianity is true or by the way,
God is real or whatever. He does it all the time. It must be very easy to determine this.
So let's go. Someone clip this, send it to them. I want to see the evidence and I will
change it. I'll become a theist very quickly. And I'm being for real. It's a real challenge.
All right. Last question. What advice would he give to your younger self?
Who? Patent. You can choose any. Okay. All right. It would literally be pay attention
and trust what you're learning. I think one of the biggest conflicts that I dealt with as a child
were people trying to tell me that what I was seeing about the world was not what I was seeing.
And so if I can go back to myself at any time, I just say, pay attention. Trust your ability.
You know who you are. You know that you spent time studying and learning. It's okay to trust
yourself. And the beautiful thing about that is if you trust yourself and you're wrong, you know
that you were wrong. And it's something you can learn from. When you put that off somewhere else
into other people's hands, it really robs you of the ability to learn about the world around me.
So pay attention, be willing to make mistakes and learn because nobody's freaking perfect.
Perfection pressure killed me. I was so immobilized. I didn't write a book until I became an atheist.
And I'd been writing my whole life. And it was actually part of becoming an atheist was realizing
there was no such thing as perfection. That was a part of my journey. It was freeing for me. And
it was like, because I was afraid to do anything because I was like, it's not perfect. Then God's
not going to be pleased and people are going to notice. And so like my first three books probably
have errors through all of them. But if I wouldn't have written them, I wouldn't be writing to this
day. It's like, I now live a life of immense freedom of knowing that nobody's freaking perfect.
And yes, there are people who are better than me. Who the fmi to think that somebody wouldn't be
better than me. And so like, I don't I don't I don't live by those pressures anymore. So it's
just pay attention and learn and and love that journey. That's what I would tell myself.
That is fantastic. Well, thank you so much, Durant for coming on Deep Drinks podcast. This has been
very enjoyable. I'm at the perfect level of drunk and now I've got to do a bunch of work.
But that's how I work best, I guess. Thank you everyone for coming out. I really
appreciate it. We got some amazing shows coming up the secret for now. But we have a very special
guest that some of my some of the patrons may have seen a behind the scenes interview may have
heard of better behind the scenes interview. But we have a very special guest coming up.
I don't know if they've done interviews before. But it's about a very kind of serious issue.
And it's I'll be releasing some YouTube shorts about it soon. So watch, stay, stay tuned for
that. And I'll see everyone later. Bye
