Welcome everyone to Deep Drinks Podcast, a special late, late edition, or depends where
you are in the world.
But for me, instead of drinking in the morning, I'm drinking at 8.30pm, which is a nice change.
So my guest today is Hanny from Critical Faculty.
He was once a Muslim, once a Christian, and is now an atheist.
He's a content creator behind the YouTube channel Critical Faculty.
And today we'll be talking about divine hiddenness.
If there is a God, and that God wants to have a relationship with us, why isn't his existence
easily known to everybody?
Welcome Hanny from Critical Faculty.
G'day Dave, how are you man?
Very good.
Stoked to be drinking at a reasonable time, which is, which is nice.
Well we're drinking.
Well, I can only ask you, so you do cranberry and vodka, right?
Correct.
Yeah, vodka, cranberry, or vodka orange, aka screwdriver.
Oh yeah.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
So I normally follow the guest, but today I didn't have time to run out and get cranberry
juice.
So I messaged you and I said, can I just mix it with something else?
So I've got vodka and, or cranberry is vodka, and I also have some whiskey if I, if it takes
me there as well.
So it's just so nice to drink at nine, you know, it's so good.
Yeah, yeah.
That's, to me, yeah, drinking in the morning is, is wrong, more, more than wrong.
Yeah.
So I guess let's just jump straight into it.
So I, you're, you've got a degree in philosophy, right?
Yes.
And you're, you've also given talks on this actually before, before I start, let me just
quickly share, I watched part of this today.
You have on your channel, which people should go subscribe to, you actually have a talk,
you gave a talk at a Catholic church, is that right?
On Divine Goodness.
Yeah, it was a Unitarian church in Melbourne.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And, and there was some interesting questions from the audience.
I'll just, I'll just say that much, but this is on your channels, people can go over to
your channel and subscribe.
A lot of your content is in Arabic, Arabic, Arabic, right?
Arabic.
Arabic.
Oh my gosh.
Why not say it like that?
So, so yeah, people can go check that out and your content is, is awesome.
But yeah, if could you give us a simplified version of the argument from Divine Goodness.
And for me, when I was a Christian, this wouldn't have been an argument.
I would have been even entertained at all.
It would have just been, it would have sounded silly.
Tell us why it's not silly.
Well, first of all, let me just give you and the audience a bit of a background, right?
Since the beginning of time, human have contemplated their existence, you know, and it's such a
respectable question, like what the hell are we doing here?
Why do I have the feet, these feelings?
Why my brain is telling me all these voices in my head?
So it's a very interesting question because it sounds like magic.
It's like, where we come from and is there a purpose to all of this and suffering, happiness,
food, sex, art, science, rage, anger, jealousy, all what, where all these things come from,
right?
Why aren't we just like roaming animals who seem to be sort of driven by pure instinct
and which somehow seems to be like a bit transcendent, like we're reflecting on things
and we feel guilt and shame and things like that.
So you know, it's a very respectable position to be in terms of questioning, well, is there
something behind this?
And that triggered obviously the world to be mostly, the whole world was mostly religious
in the vast majority of history because a lot of questions had no answers and it's religion
or that sort of metaphysical thinking seemed to give riddly available answers to as packages
to a lot of things, you know, but then in the last few centuries, science has started
to emerge in a lot of questions, not just been answered, but answered properly, answered
in the sense that you can not just answer them, but actually can use them.
These answers carry with them applications, you can actually apply that knowledge and
you can build technology and things that you can actually use.
And the departure and the divorce between science and the scientific method and religious
aptitude is a sort of was widespread in such a way that you can see the practical implications
of science.
And some people argue that there are some still need for religious and behavior and
faith because it's our, it's, it's a consolation.
How can science help you if you just lost your little daughter or your little son is
no science can do zilch.
And therefore, you know, faith that they're going to be alright, faith that you're going
to see them again in heaven, that cannot be substituted, therefore, religions and faith
has been sort of tarion for quite some time and even prevalent to date, even in the advancement
of science, because these areas are still a weakness of humanity.
And therefore, the was the birth of the problem of evil, the two biggest arguments against
the existence of God started with the problem of suffering or problem of evil.
And there were a lot of answers for it.
And I find it to be very, very, very strong and very emotionally sound, but it lacks a
little bit of an oomph that only can be provided by the argument from divine hiddenness because
it does not use emotion whatsoever.
There is no emotion element.
It's based on deductive logic, syllogisms, syllogism, two propositions and a conclusion.
And it's a slam dunk.
There is not a thing you can do about questioning the existence of this entity if it indeed exists.
So it's to me, it's the stronger of the two.
So, so what is that syllogism?
Right. Do you mind if I start sharing a couple of things?
Yeah, absolutely.
Fantastic.
Because then I can, the audiences can see it a bit better.
As, as you do that, I want to read a quote that just came up when you said that about, you know, when, when, when, what
science going to do when your daughter is, you know, your infant daughter is killed or
something like that, right?
Like when, when, when tragedy happens.
And this is amazing quote by Carl Sagan that I really love.
And it's not especially about that, but it's, it's similar.
It says, I worry that, especially as the millennium edges neuron.
So this is 2000.
Sitters science and superstition will seem year by year more tempting.
The siren song of unreason, more seronious and attractive.
Where have we heard it before?
Whenever our ethnic or national prejudices are arounds in times of scarcity during
challenges to national self-esteem or nerve, when we agonize about our diminished
cosmic place and purpose, or when we fanaticize or when fanaticism is bubbling up around us, then
habits of thought familiar from ages past reach for the controls.
The candle flames gutter.
It's little pools of light tremble.
Darkness gathers.
The demons begin to stir.
And I really love that because it really paints, for me, it paints this like perfect
picture of the idea that like when our backs are against the wall, people might, might
do things like call it to gods or do, do things that are not, that are not necessarily rational.
I know, like, I think there's like grown men who, who, when they get bitten by the
Australian jellyfish, the Urikandji, I think it's called or yeah, they'll cry out for
them, their mothers, they'll wet themselves and they'll be screaming for their mum.
So they really think their mums are going to come and, and because the pain is so excruciating,
probably not, but they're probably just in such a state that their emotions just bring up those
memories of when they were younger.
So, and I think that's what happens for a lot of people.
Anyway.
Well, Carl Sagan is such a beautiful writer, you know, he's a, I think there was a Nobel
Prize for Literature should be eventually won by scientists because there's a lot of
scientists who actually wrote beautifully and Carl Sagan was one of them for sure.
So I've shared Dave the, I don't know if you can allow it, brilliant.
Okay.
So this is a very, very simple argument.
It starts as follows.
It starts with three different imagined scenarios.
One of them, there is a god who created finite beings.
And every single finite being, being human is a believer.
So there's a God, your God is a G and everyone is a believer.
So the hiddenness argument is not valid because there isn't, you know, everybody believes in
God and you could argue, according to the biblical narrative, that's probably the beginning
of creations, you know, to talk in Adam and Eve and that direct relationship between gods
before he cut the ties with humanities, but these were direct presents.
So it's impossible for Adam and Eve not to believe in God because they were actually
witnessing his presence, whether they were actually uttering words or whether it was telepathy.
And, you know, whichever way of communication, but it's impossible to deny the existence
of God because they're having a direct communication with God.
So therefore, and if the situation continued that way and we haven't exited
the Garden of Eden, who would have known maybe the entire offspring of humanity
would have had direct relationship with God and that kind of existence or that kind of scenario,
which is quite plausible, there's nothing illogical about it.
There is a God and every finite being created by this God is a believer.
So that's scenario number one.
And then we go to scenario two.
Scenario two is there is a God who created finite beings
and some are believers and some are non-believers.
But the non-believers in this on this instance is they're non-believers because they
have suppressed the existence of God.
For example, that particular God puts a lot of moral obligations on them and they just
tired of it or they don't like the idea of the demanding or morally demanding God.
So they abandoned God.
So they called.
Well, they would still be believers, right?
They just wouldn't be followers.
So they were convinced of the existence of God.
They would just reject God.
So what happens is it's an accumulative thing.
So after suppression of the first few, the offsprings of these,
we will be so divorced from God that they no longer believe in God.
They will fall into self deception that that particular entity isn't in existence because it's too
evil.
And like for us atheists, some some believers believe that atheists are people who are maybe lazy.
They think the demands of God are too much.
And they've deceived themselves into believing that God doesn't exist.
Okay, okay.
Eventually over time.
Yeah, yeah.
So but they are called at the very end resistant non-believers.
They're resisting God.
So that scenario is quite plausible, right?
And in this case here, God is not really responsible of people not believing.
He's open to a relationship.
And it's only because of the resistance from those particular non-believers
that God has been suppressed and he's been abandoned.
And then we share scenario number three.
Scenario number three adds another category.
So you've got the believers, the non-believers who are some of them are resistant.
But there are, we know that some non-believers are non-resistant.
And we know they're non-resistant.
Probably we're going to advance the conversation a bit later.
But let's just assume there are this category of people that they're actually
open to have a really relationship with God, but the pure evidence or lack thereof
convince them that God doesn't exist.
Not because, yeah, go first.
I think, I was going to say, I think like to the best of my knowledge,
like if I try really hard to think about it, I think I'm in that last category,
but I can never be sure, right?
I could have fooled myself and I could be in that second category,
where I've tricked myself into believing it for some reason.
Maybe I just love sin too much.
I love deep drinks too much, right?
But I really truly, it started by truly being that person, the non-resistant.
I want to believe in God if God is true.
That's what I'm talking about.
Yeah, and there are lots of people like that.
For example, you're not an anti-theist like Christopher Hitchens.
Christopher Hitchens was anti-theist, so anti-theism is people who believe that
even if there was a God, he ought to be fought because he was the ultimate,
he's the ultimate dictator.
So you're like me.
There is a, yeah, go for it.
Well, sorry to interrupt again, but I would say that I would have issues with a God that
like allowed slavery or allowed, or was okay with Muhammad sleeping with a nine-year-old,
things like that.
I would still have objections.
So I guess, is that anti-theism?
Because that could still be...
No, no, no.
Because when we talk about theism, we're talking about all possible types of God.
So Abraham and God was probably out of the question, you know.
Like, come on, come on.
He's too strange, too kinky, so that he's out of the question.
Abraham and God is too kinky.
That's going to go on his t-shirt or something.
Well, yeah, he definitely is, yeah.
I mean, he spies on everybody while they're masturbate, so that's one for a starter.
Oh, yeah, sure.
And then ignores other's prayers, you know.
Oh, yeah, like, wait a minute here.
I'm just busy with this sort of the, and Islam, they believe the throne of God,
which is carried by eight angels, eight angels, carry the throne of God and he's on there.
And it shakes when an act of sodomy is committed.
Really?
So God is trembling in anger because, you know, sodomy and homosexual, what do you call,
butt sex is really, really so bad that he gets angry.
But then at two weeks old, being sort of killed on the spot, like in Gaza right now,
there are the roofs of buildings falling over babies and stuff like that.
That's all right.
That's within God's wisdom.
I don't get it.
Yeah, there's no shaking of the throne then.
But is, so this is something I discussed last week, but I found out that sodomy,
at least in the Bible, referred to oral sex as well.
Is that true in Islam?
No, no, so it has to be, yeah, anal sex, yeah.
But if two men commit that sort of thing, it will fall in a very close category.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, but not the full, so maybe instead of...
What about a heterosexual couple?
Okay, this is such a weird...
What about a heterosexual couple engages in oral sex or anal sex?
Is that okay?
Or is it just the gays?
Like, what, like, if a heterosexual couple had anal sex, would the throne shake,
or would it just, like, tilt?
Well, only if the female swallows, because there would be active cannibalism.
Jesus.
Oh, well, we've got a fat while place on us now.
You're eating little babies then, you'd be truly an atheist having little babies for breakfast.
Yeah, I mean, in Hadith and Sunnah, obviously not in the Quran itself,
there's no mention of that sort of thing.
But in Hadith and Sunnah, there is talks about, you know, all this weird kinky behavior.
But very much like Judaism, that sex is supposed to be an act of reproduction,
you know, be fruitful and multiply it up, you know, you're not supposed to be a pleasure thing,
you know, today.
So anything that is, especially if it deviates from the norm, it becomes a little bit, you know,
there are some weird Hadith and narratives that talks about when you do certain things like that,
Satan's actually having sex, having it through some with your wife.
All right, that's like, because I know that there's a lot of Christian iconography that
in Pentecostal churches that like Jesus is part of the bedroom, like he's part of the,
not sexually, but he's like there, like it's an act of making love, Jesus is there.
Or he's at least part of the relationship.
There's, at our wedding, we had the three, the three, there's a scripture written out that the three,
the three-quartered rope is hard to break.
You can't, like the two-quartered rope is really easy to break.
But if you add God in there, it's a Bible scripture three times, yeah.
So anyway, back to, yeah, go for it.
Well, back to this.
So this, if you'd fully describe this third group.
So the third group, bloody hell, my wife is at it, so much vodka in there.
It's actually pretty strong.
I've had to keep popping up.
It was like, I filled this up, right?
Hang on, let me just show everyone.
I filled this up and it was there to vodka and I was like, uh-oh.
And I mean, slowly like keep adding more, more to try and...
It's called night in Melbourne and I'm actually, I'm getting flushes now.
It's too warm now.
So this category, the last category, is a category that puts God in question because
if God exists, that category should not exist.
There should be not a single person, not a single person who is a non-resistant non-believer.
Because of, and then we're gonna explain the syllogism then.
So, so hold that thought.
That last category is the one that activate the divine hiddenness argument.
The other two categories, they're fine.
The hiddenness problem isn't there.
Well, here's, okay, here's an issue, right?
So, okay, that would be category two.
I'm just thinking, isn't that great for podcasting
where I just think and make noises with my mouth?
But no, the argument around free will, right?
So I've heard the argument, well, like God needed to give us free will.
But I had this thought a while ago that one third of the angels knew of God fully in heaven.
But they chose to follow Satan and reject God.
Oh, yeah.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, Satan himself and even Adam and Eve.
I mean, Adam and Eve, they're speaking to God directly and they still sort of disobeyed him.
So it doesn't seem to be the case that full knowledge of God changes the free will for anybody.
Absolutely.
By the way, I wouldn't be a proper philosopher if I did, if I displayed an argument without
the objection from the other side, because this is going to be coming.
I'm going to be also displaying what sort of objections came from the theists and what is the answer to them.
So, you know, to be fair, you got to, when you present an argument,
you've got to also present the other side of what they said about the argument.
So, so I was going to do that.
And then I'm going to share another.
So the actual argument itself.
So if you can show it on the screen, yeah.
So this is the hiddenness arguments.
By the way, it's called the divine hiddenness argument or the argument from non-resistant
non-belief, they're interchangeably used and it was developed by a Canadian philosopher
by the name of John Schellenberg around sort of the early 90s, maybe 92, 93, something like that.
And so this is deductive logic.
If you accept the premises in a deductive logic, so the the conclusion must follow.
And there is nothing you can do about it.
The only way to deny or to to to to critique such argument is you have to attack the premises
or find a problem with the premises.
So if God exists, there are non-resistant non-believers.
There are non-resistant non-believers.
Therefore, God does not exist.
So you can attack any of the premises and say, well, so hold on a second here.
Why non-resistant non-believers is a sign that God doesn't exist?
So then this triggers because there are subcategories under these premises.
First of all, the assumption that God, the super entity, the best personal entity that
a person can think of must be perfectly loving.
And if you're a perfectly loving who created our finite beings,
you would want to have an open relationship with them.
Well, you see, I would reject that first premise as being important or valid or like,
I wouldn't even go there with that first premise because I think you can build a pretty good case
that as the ex-pastor of the West Baptist Church says,
the Bible talks more about God's hate than it does about his love.
So if you're a Bible preacher, you're preaching hate.
So like, sorry, that was a bad accent, but that's what he said.
So I think you can build an argument that God, the God of the Bible, is not all-loving.
That maybe Jesus represented an all-loving arm of that God.
But for sure, this God is a God that commands infanticide and slavery.
And here comes the question when you texted me the other day,
like a few hours ago, and you said,
what is this guy talking about worship worthy about?
And that is the whole premise.
If there is a super entity that created the universe,
however, it is not loving, that does not warrant worship unless it's out of fear.
So God could have been evil.
That's why the final premises would be no perfectly loving God exists,
not just the God, because even the word God is connected to being worship worthy.
It's an entity worth of our admiration.
But if this entity is evil, then what is the guarantee
that even if you do what they're asking you to do,
that they don't have like a really wicked sense of humor,
where they've created hell, but for the believer, the gullible believers to go to,
and the funny, sarcastic, dark-humored atheists will end up going in heaven.
So there's no guarantee with that type of God.
And therefore, it's not a God.
It's more of a super deity or a super creator, but not a God,
not a worship worthy, not a one that you go, I love you, I admire you.
Can I interject quickly and just posit my own version of this argument
and tell me why it's not as good?
Even all loving God, no, no, sorry, some claim, people claim,
that an all-powerful God wants a relationship with all humans.
That God's existence is not evidently known to all humans.
Therefore, an all-powerful or loving God does not exist.
Oh yeah, it's the same.
It's exactly the same.
The bottom line is the openness, that relationship.
So there are a group of people who are not resisting God at all.
As a matter of fact, they could have been ex-Christians or ex-Muslims.
So they've actually lapsed.
There were once-believers.
So they once-believe, but it's just against the evidence
that sort of conviction sort of diminished over time.
So the problem is the openness of the relationship.
If God is truly loving and truly want to sort of having a relationship with human beings,
why are some people are denied of that connection?
So you hear about Christians, about that personal presence of God
and all that sort of stuff, and yet other people cannot feel it
or do not witness it.
And it's not a fault of theirs.
They truly searched everywhere and they couldn't find it.
It's not there.
What do they do?
They're not resisting it either.
They're happy.
They want to see a sign.
God, I mean, most Christians who lapsed, they told me before they do,
they've actually sort of prayed and said,
okay, I'm about to do this.
If you truly exist, please show me a sign.
There's nothing.
There's silence, crickets.
Well, the problem is I'm trying to play devil's advocate here.
As a Christian, I would have said that that was testing God.
Therefore, God was not going to show you a sign.
Because it says not to test God.
But look at the repercussions.
I mean, I'm talking about like a devout human being
who is really disparate.
I mean, and this is what we're going to have to probe the word love.
What does love mean?
Because once we progress the center claim
and understand the subsidiary claims,
and what it means to love someone,
because for us to love someone
is to be able to share with them an experience
where both parties flourish in that relationship.
So God is happy for us to be happy.
We're happy for God's existence.
And we're sort of, you know, witnessing the glory of God.
And there is a reciprocal positive energy flowing between the two.
And you look, you feel it in normal human affairs,
yourself and your wife, yourself and your best mates.
That's what you call love.
If your best mates start to testing you,
to see if you really like them or not,
by putting some traps in front of you,
and you would start to think, does he really love me?
Or is there like a psychotic situation going on
where that person is not really self-assured
or having problem with confidence
and they want to make sure all the time
that I truly love them?
Because once you have that sort of relationship
and the confidence and the trust,
you don't keep questioning it.
You don't need to, you don't go to your wife and say,
can you please pray five times
or tell me five times a day that she loved me?
Because if you don't say that maybe you've stopped loving me,
she doesn't need to know to do that.
Certain actions, little things, indirect actions
between partners and friends show that they care
without having them say, we care.
And that's on a human level.
So if humans are that wise, how can be the almighty,
the all wise need renewal of vows almost every second
and putting you at different tests?
You don't put people to test if you truly love them.
Well, the biggest argument that I hear against this kind of idea
is something that I think Jordan Peterson says.
It's something that I think Frank Turek said.
Like it's the main, and that is there are no true atheists.
There are no people who, like people know in their hearts
that God exists.
In fact, I think the Bible even says
that people know that God exists in their hearts.
But what kind of argument is that?
I mean, it's not true.
I can tell you, it is not true for me.
I mean, I don't know that God exists.
This is a very strange argument.
It's like, and we're going to get to it
because actually this has been posed as one of the
problems with that through with the premises
that people are, it's called the hidden resistance.
So people like Richard Swinburne have actually said,
and others, what's the other one, Andrew Collison,
they actually said, what if there is hidden resistance,
resistance that you're not aware of?
Like a built-in bias against the,
you know, like you hear the funny story here,
you've got a bias against the supernatural.
You don't want to believe the supernatural.
So that's not an argument that, you know,
you know there is a God, but you're deep down,
you're denying it.
It's just not an argument because, I mean,
some of us were religious before.
I mean, you know, like you believed in God before.
Yeah, well, they'll say, they'll quote one John,
if they were, if they left us, they would never really
fit with us, you know, and it's like, oh, like, it's like,
you can never win.
Because you know why, well, you know why, Dave,
this, you can never win with, with arguments like this,
because there, these arguments are all defined.
It's unfalsifiable.
It's like, we call it in science, that's exactly
the definition of a non-scientific theory that comes along,
and it can never be falsified.
Doesn't matter how you present your argument,
I can find a way that it will render your argument
incorrect or, or not plausible.
And because it's very L defined concept,
it doesn't have any concept to it.
It can take any shape or form it wishes,
and it have the multiple interpretations
within the same idea.
Look at the amount of denominations of Christians
and Muslims around the world,
because religion has made it so that you believe in anything.
If you're a good person, here are the good verses
in the Bible and the Quran.
If you are like kind of weird and aggressive,
and you like the blood and stuff,
there are stuff that would suit you just,
just as well in both the holy texts,
because it's L defined.
So therefore, I always find arguments like this
is just so weak.
Hmm. Yeah, I mean, I find it weak as well,
but it seems like an argument that,
like, what do you say to someone who says that?
Like, I've heard people, I've heard people argue
that there are, you know, uncontact,
there are certain tribes that have been found
to have no God belief at all.
Yeah.
Like they don't, they just don't have that.
And the person, I think Matt Delhante
brought this up to someone in a debate,
and they said, no, they still know that there is a God.
It's like the, it's like the inner consciousness
or something like they just don't know,
they just don't put it into like a God perspective,
but they have that inner conscience that,
that's, that's, that's therefore that's God.
Well, I'll put it simply to them back and say,
okay, you're making a claim, right?
You're making a large claim, extraordinary claim.
I need extraordinary evidence.
Yeah, you can just claim anything and go away
and say, I'm sorry, I want to debate.
If you claim something,
like if I'm going to claim something today,
I'll make sure it's supported by evidence.
Okay.
What evidence have you got that I am hiding this?
You know, I know I've changed my beliefs
on multiple things in life.
I became vegetarian.
I've abandoned certain thoughts before
and I've adopted new ones.
I can show that I've a proven track record
of me changing my mind based on solid evidence.
So that's all what I can present.
I can show that over time,
I've changed my position on multiple things.
It's a, it's one of those,
it's an unfalsifiable assertion, isn't it?
When someone says that,
it's the same as like the spirit, the supernatural,
like, oh, you know, the supernatural exists
and you ask for examples
and it's always something ambiguous
that you can't like nail down.
You can't prove.
Yeah.
Because you know what?
You can simply reverse it and, and, and,
but obviously I won't never do that
because it'll be quite childish
and it will still be valid.
So I can say, well, you know what?
I think you're hiding something
and I think you might not be aware of it.
You might know that God does not exist deep down
but you're pretending.
You know, it's, it too can play that game.
I had, I had someone actually say it to me
and they were saying like, you know,
when I think about, and this person
was just an average person, they go, you know, we're not,
when I want to think about it,
I really get honest with myself
when I sit down and I think about it
and I think about, you know, is there a God?
I, I eventually just realized
there probably isn't.
So shocked because I thought he,
I thought they were going to come around
and say like, oh yeah, I know,
there must be something or, or whatever.
But no, it was, uh, yeah, it was, it was no God.
Yeah, it's, it's, uh, yeah.
So these type of arguments are quite silly
but so the, the, the syllogism is quite sound.
And if there is a God, you know,
when we say God, we mean a worship worthy God.
A God worthy of our love and admiration
and created us according to the Bible,
you know, God created us
because he loved us so much, right?
And he wanted to have that relationship with us.
But if we don't, we don't, we don't love him back,
he's prepared something, uh, a nice surprise,
a nasty one if we don't love him back.
Just, I mean, and that's again,
I'm going to pose that particular question to you.
Let's say you're, you're, you're, you're a 20 years old.
You fell in love with a girl.
You were brought up nicely with nice standards.
For some reason, that girl, you loved her so much
and she's such a beautiful girl and you love her spirit,
but she ended up loving somebody else, right?
And, uh, or, or not loving you and not committed to anyone else.
Uh, most sane, virtuous, good people
would sort of walk away from that saying, well, you know,
if she's in love with somebody else
and you see her happy, then you're happy for her
and that's good enough.
Or you just, you know, you move on with your life
and you be dubbed as a chilled and cool guy,
but only the weirdos will start
stalking that girl and, um, you know,
trying to probably abduct her or torture her.
Who does that?
So when, when a human does that, we call them psychos,
but when a super entity does exactly that,
because why would an old wise God be care?
What a finite being thinks?
You know, I was like, you wouldn't really care.
I mean, even like really, really strong humans,
when I say strong, I'm saying strong in character,
if they get a negative feedback on their article,
um, they don't care.
They say, well, this person has actually expressed their opinion
and they have the right to express their opinion.
They don't like my opinion and so be it.
So what?
But then you find those who are absolutely goes very defensive.
As soon as you say something, I was like,
how dare you, um, critique my intellect?
It's all, and it's, and we call that what a science of,
a sign of insecurity.
How can the almighty, the creator of the old universes,
the, the greatest power that it's all been care about,
what you have for dinner, what positions of sexual position
you've had sex with your partner.
It's, it's incredible.
It's actually, if there is a God, he would be quite upset
that his reputation has been tarnished.
I know, and, and, and God's morality seems to evolve
with society's morality.
Like, you know, as things, like things don't tend to get,
the instructions from God tend to get a bit more,
you know, acceptable.
When you go from the Old Testament to the new, at least,
you go from not, not being able to eat shellfish
and not wearing linen of two mixed fabrics,
as a death sentence to, you know,
getting divorced is okay under certain circumstances.
Like, it's just, it's, you know, it's, it's wild.
But the thing, this is, this is the thing
that kind of bothers me.
And I wonder if, I wonder who has the cognitive dissonance,
like not the cognitive dissonance,
I wonder who has the mental blockers not seeing this, right?
Because I read a scripture like Matthew 24, Mark 9,
I think it is, Luke, whatever it is,
it's the scripture where Jesus is talking about the end times
and saying, this generation will not pass away
until they see the Son of Man coming in the clouds
with great glory and great power,
and he'll overthrow, you know, all that kind of stuff.
The end of the world is going to be people standing here today
will not taste death until they see all these things happen.
And it didn't happen.
You know, 2000 years later, we're still talking about that.
That to me, that's like a, okay, either the Bible's not
Naren or Jesus didn't know what he was talking about,
or was lying, or his words were recorded wrong.
Either way, there's a problem there.
That's like a case closed, Christianity.
Or it depends what you mean by generation.
Yeah, yeah.
And then so I always ask someone who says that,
I always ask someone about that.
And I say, okay, so give me the translation.
Translate this so it says, you know, I tell you the truth,
this generation will pass away and the next,
and the next, and the next, and the next,
and in fact, it'll be over 2000 years,
and then Obama will be elected president,
and that'll be the sign of the end time.
You know, like, give me the translation that works
because this isn't working.
But that's exactly how prophecies are made so vague
that's on purpose so they can fit any narrative.
That's how they designed, you know, they designed it that way.
So yeah, and I mean, and this is what I'll say
just on the generation thing,
but if you translated it to say the exact opposite
of what it says in plain reading, you know,
this generation will pass away and you translate it to mean,
no, no, no, this generation won't pass away.
Like, the exact opposite.
Then why can we not say the same for everything else?
Like, did Jesus drive demons out of people
or did he bring them into people?
Did he die on the cross or did he live on the cross?
Like, you're just gonna say the opposite of whatever happened.
Like, if you can find a way to translate that,
so for me, that's the, like, that one thing
is like, case closed with Christianity,
but people don't see it.
And the same with this is like, the hiddenness argument,
this seems to be case closed for a God
that wants a relationship with you
but isn't evident to everyone.
Isn't this case closed?
And you're not resisting.
And you're not resisting him.
Yeah, I'm not resisting, I'm not resisting.
Yeah, because that's very important.
If you're not, I'm open, right?
Like, right now, if God show me and you are signed,
I mean, so imagine, I mean,
so God seemed to be showing himself quite often
before the invention of camcorders
and cameras and mobile phones.
How convenient was that?
You know, like, he was actually showing
and he was intervening.
So right now, so go on and hold on a second.
God does not intervene because of free will.
God cannot intervene.
So baby Hitler could have not been killed
because then Hitler would have not exercised
his moral freedom to commit evil acts.
So where was that moral freedom
when God killed the firstborn of Egypt and the Passover?
He actually intervened 10 times.
The 10 hits over Egypt and there,
I mean, and look at the resolution.
What a strange, wacky, evil-ish psychotic.
Do you know Ricky Gervais?
Yeah, I do.
I listen to him all day.
So Ricky Gervais and his best mates,
the guy with the head like a fucking orange.
Karl Pilketon.
Karl Pilketon.
Yeah, Karl Pilketon.
It was Ricky Gervais was telling the story
and Karl Pilketon said, you know what?
In his way, I think God is gay.
He said, what do you mean?
He said, I think he had a hissy fit.
Alex, I know some gay people.
He had a hissy fit.
Oh, I couldn't believe that.
That was so odd.
So funny.
Yeah, because you put it up in this book, right?
And it was like, I mean, this was back before.
This is this was his series back in 2000.
And I know it was before it was a while ago.
And he was pointing to like this photo,
these images of God and God had like big hoop earrings.
And he made this joke like, where are you going?
It's like, go to see God.
It's brilliant.
Absolutely brilliant.
But when you think about it,
God could have done this in so many different ways.
First of all, he could have changed Pharaoh's mind.
One, okay, the guy's so evil, he's long lost.
Okay, kill the Pharaoh, right?
The first born of the Egyptian children,
innocent human beings have no idea what the hell is going on.
And this act is committed by God.
And this is where the divine command theory comes from.
If this act is committed by anyone,
that person would be called evil.
A Hitler or a horrible stuff would be uttered in history about this person.
But because it's God, it's fine.
Where is creation?
He can do what the hell he wants with us.
There was this amazing quote that I saw and took a screenshot of it on TikTok.
And it was someone doing a live stream,
and they had a question about them, and it said,
here we go, I found it.
Did the babies floating by the ark have free will?
And I was like, oh, that's so brutal and so true, right?
But it is horrible.
So the generation thing, for me, that seems like I'm trying to work out.
Have I got something like mental books not letting me see it?
Or is it them?
And then this hidden argument, is am I just not seeing it?
Or is it like, what's the steel man to the opposition to this argument?
I've written down what Michael Jones said in his video on the subject,
but I'm wondering what is the standard objections to...
Well, there are three main objections,
and I think I've got to slide for them.
Now, just give me a second.
And share with you the objections.
And I'm just hoping that people can appreciate the presentation,
because I'm trying to be as unbiased as I can possibly be.
So instead of just presenting an argument and pretending
that it's a slam dunk and has never been sort of refuted,
or people have no objection, we need to present the objection,
and we need to go through the objection and ask, are they viable?
This is the hidden resistance we talked about.
That what are you hiding some resistance that you don't know of?
But this is such a hypothetical situation
that is not just valid for the existence of God,
it could be valid for anything.
So you're arguing with somebody about something,
and they come up with their own narrative or argument,
and you go, no, no.
I don't think you believe what you're saying.
Deep down, you believe the opposites.
I can do this with anything.
I can do it with food, with your favorite footy club.
I can do it with anything.
And it's not an argument, so this is a non-starter.
You can only argue about what people are presenting in front of you.
Saying that, sorry, deep down, you don't think what you think
is not an argument.
You cannot progress the conversation.
It stops right there.
So you're going to have to work with this.
So I have enough respect for believers that when I argue with them,
I don't have the audacity to tell them, now, deep down, you're an atheist.
I'll be stupid.
That's not an argument.
I have to respect their wishes, and they present themselves.
It's like pronouns right now.
When somebody says to me, hello, can you please call me this?
I have to call them that, not because I can go through the argument of,
oh, look at the pronouns, just as a sign of human decency and respect.
If somebody present themselves in a certain way, you ought to say,
okay, if you want to have a good communication, that is,
because you need to pass that point to be able to progress any meaningful conversation.
But imagine having to be stuck at it and they and she and all that sort of stuff
where people say, I'm not saying that.
You don't look like a, that's stupid.
Show me your birth certificate.
I'm only referring to you by your legal name.
That's ridiculous, because that person might harbor fantastic views in their head.
I will be denying myself the joy of engaging with their thoughts,
because I'm stuck at sort of the stupid first.
It's just scummy, like full stop, but like to be like this arbiter of truth,
show me your chromosomes.
And it harbors the inner feelings about the insecurities and people caring for
little things.
And exactly that God is, or that kind of argument presents the same issue is the person
who's basically have no respect for your thoughts, no respect of what you're putting through
and too lazy to engage in what you're thinking through and comes up with the easy cop out of,
you know what, deep down, you know, there is a God.
Yeah, it's, it's quite insulting.
It's absolutely.
Yeah.
Absolutely.
These are the, these are the three main objections to the hiddenness argument.
Yes.
So the first one is the hidden resistance and I've been,
it's been exactly countered the way I'm countering it right now.
This is very open.
It cannot be asserted and because it cannot be proven and it can be used in any to dismiss
any conversation, not just theological, anything where you're saying that you're,
you've got a, you've got a natural bias against the supernatural.
You've got a natural bias against God.
I can say you have a natural bias against the, the natural world.
You've got an inner bias that you're not aware of that resist the natural causes and the natural
explanation of the, of existence of everything, but I don't do that because it's stupid.
I can say you're under misapprehension.
I don't think you understand this point.
Let me prove to you.
Let me, let's, let's chat about that.
But to start the conversation by saying, I don't think you believe what you're saying,
you know, is suddenly become a shrink and, and, and, and, and a telepathist and,
you know, reading somebody's aura and suddenly come up with that.
You know, it's a really stupid thing.
So that has been dismissed.
The second one, it's, it's, it's a gets a bit more plausible.
So why would God always be open to personal relationship with finite creatures?
You know, maybe, maybe, maybe, maybe there is a wisdom behind that.
For example, the nature of belief, the nature of belief or faith requires that you don't,
you believe without evidence necessarily.
That's how faith works, you know, because if it's, if it's evidence based, it's no longer
called belief or faith, it called, it's called knowledge.
If I prove to you something and it works and it's practical and you go home and try it,
it becomes knowledge.
It's becomes part of epistemology, part of the theory of knowledge, because it has practical
implication and it works.
So it's no longer a faith.
A faith is believing in something without the need for proof.
It might be proof, but you don't need it.
And, and, and yeah, go for it.
What's the counter to that?
Because that, that seems like a, like a relatively sound argument that, that God wants us to have
faith. Therefore, that's why he doesn't show us his, what he's not evidently true to everybody.
Sure.
So now faith, well, faith leads to what?
Faith is, isn't faith to lead to some sort of knowledge and therefore a relationship with
that God?
Because when you have a faith with that God, you have a kind of relationship with that God.
And God has to prove in here that something can only be achieved through faith.
It cannot be achieved through normal direct relationships.
So for example, we talked about Adam and Eve.
We talked about the situation where God is having a direct interaction with these finite
beings.
It did not stop them from practicing free will.
They disobey God and they put something else in front of God.
They walk with God in the garden.
Yeah.
They hid from God and God couldn't find them, which is another big problem.
So what the hell?
Where are you?
He actually asked the question.
The rhetorical, of course, he knows, but he's yeah.
Of course.
Yeah.
So Lucifer, according to the Muslim narrative, he was asked to bow to humans and he said,
I'm not bowing to anybody, which is actually, I think Lucifer is quite admirable.
He's very principled type of person for a good reason.
I imagine God is asking you to worship to find other finite beings and maybe part of
the answer was like, sorry, I will only bow to you.
You're the only one worthy of bowing too.
So he's actually probably had a point, but therefore, I mean, Lucifer knows God more than
even humans because he's obviously older.
He's got supernatural abilities to understand exactly what the future means to him.
He's probably going to be in agony for the rest of eternity, yet chooses to disobey God.
So here are a couple of incidents where
being in God's presence did not stop these creatures from practicing their free will.
So God could appear and we still have the same issues intact.
You still have to fall in love.
You still have to get an education.
You still have to find a job.
Nothing, you know, like tomorrow we found out there is a God, right?
We will be going crazy for about a month or two before the world goes back into normal mode again.
We're like, okay, we're gonna, we're gonna, we need oil.
We've got war.
We got all these sort of issues.
And by the way, God told me I'm with, you know, I'm with you in that war and we end up with the same story again.
So it doesn't, it doesn't change anything.
So if I was to nitpick, I could still say that because the Bible says,
you go back to the Bible because the Bible says God wants us to have faith, right?
Or it alludes to that at least.
I don't know if it clearly says that, but,
but again, if I was to ask why, like why does God wants to have faith?
It becomes one of those questions like, well, he just does.
Like it's just like, like what, like why?
And it's like, because he likes it.
Like it becomes like a unfalsifiable, like you could prove that
someone could have a relationship with God without faith.
They could love God without faith.
They could, they could do all these things, but the Christian will still point back to,
yes, but God wants us to have faith.
Considering the faith we know for a fact now is one of,
is the worst method of reaching knowledge over epistemology.
Because forget about God.
Let's say you have faith that theories exist.
Or Bigfoot or alien abduction.
Look at the type of person you become.
Conspiracy theorists, probably having issues organizing your life, lots of delusions.
You know, there's so many problems.
Counter it with the proper method of reaching knowledge.
You know, the observation, trial, objective and neutral verification of the method.
Make sure it works.
Make sure it works by a third party other than yourself.
Neutralizing your senses that can actually deceive you and use other things that will
tell you that the result of this test is objective.
And then you use that knowledge to build rockets, satellites,
Midsyn, all sort of helpful stuff.
What has faith done other than even not just religion?
It puts us in a situation.
I mean, look at the state of more faithful countries in the world,
in terms of education, in terms of health, in terms of even happiness,
and GDP and things like that, they're having trouble.
I think you have a naturalist worldview, Hanning.
Because to replace devil's advocate again.
So I had a conversation with Inspiring Philosophy,
Michael Jones, a while ago on Deep Drinks, and we were discussing morality.
We were discussing the problem of evil and the problem of suffering.
And I posed this question.
Let's say there's a hypothetical universe where the only thing in this universe is a person and
a button that gives $1,000 a charity and a button that gives $10,000 a charity.
Like both of those, although the charity would also have to exist inside this sum
in this box, but for argument's sake, there's two options.
One good and one even more good.
One of these options is a bad option.
There's just one's more good or one's a greater good.
And something that really surprised me is,
and you'll have to go back to watch it to get a clear understanding of what he actually said.
But as I could be recalling incorrectly, but he said something along the lines of
that assumes in a kind of utilitarian perspective of the universe,
that those things like giving money to charities is a good thing.
Where he says, suppose that ethics is more about virtue and building a virtuous life
and things like that.
And then he said, and I said, it got down to the argument where I said,
let's say there's a universe where you can build no moral virtue,
but there are no children being abducted and abused.
And there is a universe, and he said, he would choose the universe where there is
the ability to get moral virtue, but there are still children being abducted and abused.
And I was like, I could not believe that he bit that bullet.
Like, I don't think it comes across like how hectic that is.
But I think that's that like, I'm not saying Michael's a bad dude or anything.
I think this is an extension of his worldview.
And maybe if you push him, why don't he probably wiggle around that a little bit?
Like, but I think that, and I've watched his video on the divine hiddenness,
which by the way, if you type in divine hiddenness on YouTube,
it's one, two, three, fourth one down here, the one hiddenness,
his arguments are essentially similar.
His arguments are that human reasoning and evidence that one people, I've listed them,
that the video argues that if God provides sufficient evidence,
it might not be convincing to everyone.
God's intentions beyond mere belief.
So the argument is made that God's aim is not just to have people believe in his existence,
but to seek a deeper, morally good reasons for belief.
The, and I'll just get through this quickly.
The role of free will.
The video suggests that forcing people to believe in God would violate their freedom
and potentially lead to the wrong attitudes towards God.
So we've discussed that divine need for evidence.
Different people have different needs for evidence.
The problem of selfish human nature.
This part, the video posits that human nature is inherently selfish and prideful.
And this affects how people respond to the idea of God.
The video suggests that God's hiddenness is a strategy to help humans overcome these
tendencies and seek him with humility.
So it's the, it's the, it's the argument saying, if God showed up, that would,
that would soothe our prideful ego.
And God doesn't want that.
God wants, this is a lesson from God.
This is a, this is a test from God to seek him, to humble ourselves and seek him
and have faith without evidence, essentially.
Considering he's an eternal being and we've never fricking asked to exist in the first place,
right?
We're, we're thrown at this, right?
And, and we're trying to sort of make sense of it all.
And he's an all-knowing, the past, present, and the future exists with him all at once.
And we are sort of, you know, stumbling in trying to sort of sort of all our fears
if it's not religious, it's otherwise social, it's work, it's marriage, it's, you know,
life isn't easy.
We don't need humility.
The whole thing is not about humility.
And we did display, according to the biblical story, that the, the direct presence of God
did not tarnish, uh, uh, free will because you can have multiple, and you mentioned before,
why does God, because this is a Leibniz, um, uh, top, the best of possible worlds.
And William Lane Craig talks about it as well.
Apparently this particular equation that we're here right now is the best way to express human
emotions and the devotion and all the sort of things.
As if it's a recipe that God must follow to achieve this.
Yeah.
Wouldn't that render the power of an old powerful being, uh, rendered, uh, that might
redundant because if there is a certain equation that must be followed to achieve that, that
becomes superior to God's power to achieve it, because an old mighty can achieve that final
result in whichever way he wants, including a world where there's no suffering and there are
levels of goodness. So you have good, very, very good, extremely good, excellent, super
excellent, and, and still no suffering.
Yeah. Super Saiyan, excellent. Like, like the, the thing, the thing is too is this,
this moral virtue kind of idea is a system presumably set up by God.
It's like, it's like that. It's like, it's putting the cart for the horse. It's like,
moral virtue is good. And it's like, what is that good you're talking about here?
You talk, that good you're talking about here is, it's a presupposition. Like you're,
you're building, it's all like, it just, it just seems to, I'm not a philosopher as you can tell.
I have to use my hands.
No, but it's, you're, you're onto something day, but it's been, it's been argued. That's called
the Yuthifru dilemma. Where does, what does, where does goodness come from? Is it,
comes from the nature of God? So he commands something and it becomes good as soon as he
utters the word. So save the children. That's good because God says so.
Killed the children. It's good because God says so.
God says so, yeah.
Then I'm sorry, what kind of virtue, so to me ethics is, is nothing transcendent. Ethics and,
and, and moral values are, are things that we develop in societies. That's why they change
over time to engage with one another and ensure prosperous engagement and future for all of us
to survive. It's a survival mechanism that it is not, and it, and it's very like, there's something
called, um, uh, so there is deductive, inductive, and there's abductive logic.
Abductive logic is when you have two hypotheses and, uh, and, and try to run them by system and
see which one will explain, um, uh, uh, the, the, the, the status quo, the data that we have right
now, the data we have right now, it says moral values have changed over time. Moral values are
different right now as we speak in different spots on, on the, on earth because of culture
backgrounds. So what's deemed to be moral in Afghanistan is completely different than
moral in Sweden. The word honor in the Muslim word is different than the word honor in Australia.
So when we say, we talk about honor here, about honoring your words, you're a man of your word,
you promise and things like honor in the Muslim world is, is the hymen of your daughter in, in
Saudi Arabia. Yeah. Her virginity. Yeah. Yeah. On like the highest honor, excuse me, if anyone's
offended by this, but in Australia, getting called a mad cunt is the highest honor that you can possibly
get. That's, that's, that's a compliment. You know, people, yeah. But, but we say, and, and words
Maddalhanti wants that one said before, and words don't have intrinsic meanings. They have
utilities. That word cunt, if it's used in that particular, I mean, it was first uttered in the
cinemas by Anthony Hopkins in the movie, Silence of the Lambs. And people are remember going,
he said the C words, you know, when he talks about Jolly Foster. Yeah. We've watched Silence of the
Lambs. Jolly Foster was approaching him while he's in his cell and he can say, I think he said,
I can, I can smell your cunt. And it was because he was a, he was a serial killer. And the way he
said it was quite, you know, thrilling. But people were like in the cinema then, because such a word,
but, but words are meant to be utilities. Like if you use them in the right context, like in
Australia, this is a form of endearment. That's like a good mate of yours. Obviously, out of
sight of Australia, they won't understand what we're talking about. But I understand it quite well.
Like, you know, just to something that Christopher Hitchens did once actually, which was,
I'm still, I still, my mind is blown by this. And I think I might have even brought up the
first time we chatted, but he was debating some Catholics on, on, with Stephen Fry, who's, he's
gay. I remember that. Yeah. And he's, he used the F slur. He used the, you know, like the homophobic
slur. And he says, you know, but he's pointing out the fact that he's like, no, he's like,
the church is saying, no, Stephen, you can't draw my church. You're an F slur. You're,
yeah, I remember that. Yeah. And he's like, and it was so shocking because you're like, whoa,
but it brought, it really brought the seriousness of what the actual, what the reality actually was.
The word is much less offensive than all the LGBT folks that have been hurt by religion,
by the Catholic church, by, by the doctrines, much less offensive. But it was still so offensive.
And I, and I'm like, what, I'm like, I'm like conflicted, you know, like, I'll look at that
and go, he meant to be shocking. I think he wanted to shock you. That's the whole idea. He wanted to,
he's portraying what the others are saying and what they mean by that word. Because when you say
the F word for, for a homosexual, it's usually because you're, you're, you're, you're denying
their humanity. You're saying because you're that you're less than a human, right? But words
changed. The word gay, a hundred years ago meant something different. If I was in the UK,
a hundred years ago, I could say, Hey, Dave, have a, have a gay day. And I'll be understood as an
happy, the Nietzsche wrote a book called the gay science, you know, and it was like happy and
cheerful and stuff like that. And it's changed over time to mean something else. And words can
change meaning that were faggot can mean something completely different in 70 years. And it will mean,
and it will be understood in a different context. But it's what you mean by the word. And, and,
and what are you using it for? And what are you trying to say? And what, what do you imply by
saying it that really matters? Context is everything. So, you know, situations like this
where you engage, especially when we go back to that divine hidden situation, I don't see why God
should be hiding. And, but then there are other pieces in the, in the, in the, in the Old Testament
and that talks about God's inability to appear to people because nobody has seen God and survived.
Apparently you turn, you go on flames, you know, like he'd burn you because he's, he's such a
powerful entity, nobody's witnessed God and survived. Yet he is a Jacob that he fought with
or struggled with. Yeah, wrestle with Jacob like overnight or something. Yeah. Yeah. And Jacob beat
him. So yeah, so, so what are the, so do we finish these arguments?
Yeah, so we talked about the openness and relationships are a sane loving entity.
When they say I love you, that means I want to have a positive relationship with you. That
means it's a reciprocal positive relationship where we both feel good about our friendship.
You know, so like right now, you're giving me new ideas. I'm thinking about, I'm feeling good.
I've got oxytocin flowing in my head. I'm thinking David is a good guy. He gets me.
And you go, oh, honey, actually a smart guy gets me. You know, he talks about this sort of,
I agree with him. And that relationship, the bond sort of opens over time. Then you might end up
open to me about certain things later on on the phone. I'll do the same. And it becomes a solid
relationship where there is no manipulation and it's open and it's transparent, right? And
you feel good about it. That's on the normal human, human level. So imagine an all wise loving God.
He'd be open to that relationship. But if there are other, you remember, we talked about resistance
and nonbelievers. If God has done everything from his side and there are some who want to
reject God because of free will, right? He's made, he first made that first step by making
himself available and open. And they rejected him like Satan did or disobeyed him like Adam and Eve
did, right? But if you are completely invisible and not open to a relationship, at least as claimed
by some people who are trying, they're not resisting from their side, but they're blocked.
Somehow they're blocked. God is actually like on Facebook, block them for some reason. Click the
wrong button. It's like, shit, I wasn't meant to block you, Dave. Big clumsy fingers, you know.
Well, just to object again, but this all goes back, I'm just trying to put my brain into the
fundamentalist perspective that I would have held, but this goes back into the whole free will
argument, right? Because it goes back to the Bible. The Bible says that we have free will. So then,
no matter what you show someone, if you say to someone, my brain's just wired differently,
or they won't accept it because the Bible says that you have free will. I remember having this
conversation with someone and I said to them, you know, if babies go to heaven, wouldn't it be good
to just murder every baby? Because you're going from a hundred percent chance of them going to heaven
to anything under a hundred percent chance after they reach the age of accountability.
So I was like, so you're risking them going to hell? And I was like, you're being incredibly selfish
by not sacrificing yourself and murdering your children. Unless there must be a christened
Catholic, though, otherwise the limbo, you know. Get them christened being a few religions just to
make sure. Because that wouldn't be their choice. So if they got christened in the wrong religion,
then it would be okay because it would be your sin still. So that works. You just get christened
in all the religions. But the point is, they just kept coming back with, no, the Bible says
that to train your child in the ways of the Lord and they will not depart. But like you're going
from a hundred percent chance, a hundred percent chance of going to heaven to even 99 percent chance.
No, it says train a child in the way of the Lord and they will not depart. And you're like,
so like no one's departed? Like it's just like they couldn't get that past that loop that was
stuck, that was stuck in that like sport. Because I think the argument of murdering all your children
actually works. Not that I advocate for murdering children. I know, I know. You would actually,
you would actually on philosophical ground, you make that argument. But that situation with
God and free choice. And because that's such a lame, because that free will is also used in the
argument from of suffering or argument from evil. Again, it's used for, you know, that free well
is such a scapegoat that everything is put on as if it's the answer to everything for most theist.
Free will does not exist. What free will are we talking about? Which free will? Absolute free
will. I have, I have not chosen. But you've moved, you've moved. I'll let you go where you're going
to go. I know where you're going to go, but you've moved back into the realm of non-Bible stuff.
And they're just going to say, we'll know the Bible says we have free will.
Oh, I mean, if somebody, I mean, if you can have this philosophical conversation with somebody,
at least you're going to have some with somebody who can actually engage on philosophical terms
and can transcend the biblical text. If you're only, if you're arguing with somebody who is very,
you know, they believe in the in, in urgency of the Bible, this is not a conversation to have with
them. You'll have a, I'll choose a different conversation. This argument is designed for
the intellectuals, not the activists. It's for the philosophers. I mean, like inspiring philosophy,
for example, he's a Christian who would like to think about philosophy. So this is a, this is
a conversation you'd have with them. But if you speak to Frank Turek, I'll bring Elijah.
Yeah. And Elijah and the she bears who tore the 42 children to bits because they made fun
of Elijah's bald head. I'll talk like that to that level, you know? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And then I go,
where do you get your morality from? He's classic. He's like, he's gone down like the rabbit hole,
like real bad. Oh, no. I've seen his conversation with Alex O'Connor. I think he's changed like,
yeah. Oh, yeah, that broke it. It's like, that was that like what broke him? I think that was the
first thing I ever saw of him, but I've seen old, old, old stuff of it. So it's like, was that the
one that broke him? Because like, he's now like proper crazy, like on, on at least on Twitter,
but I guess most people are pretty crazy on Twitter. Yeah. And it is, and I sometimes feel
a furthest theus because sometimes I wonder how many, how many demons have they got? Because
they're thinking too much about this. I wonder if sometimes there are doubts that emerge and,
and, and things they struggle with and, and, and, you know, fake it till you make a type of thing.
And sometimes it works, especially those who are very deep into theology. And because it drives
you mad, the amount of contradictions you've got to believe things and their opposite at the same
time. I think that will drive people insane at some point. To be honest, like I don't have a lot
of hope for people, certain people who, who have used religion as a, it's, it's, it's been so important
to them for so long. Like I don't have a lot of hope for, because like we, we, I have, you know,
beloved family members, people who I love, friends that I love. And, you know, just thinking of
some friends I know, they, they're, they're older and they have the, one of their, one of their
family members has been critically ill for 30 years, maybe longer, bedridden. And every day,
it's a, it's a, it's a, it's a, um, reaching out to God and believing that God is helping them
through the day, their family, helping them make ends meet, helping them, um, process the emotions,
helping them forgive, helping them, all these, you know, these things. Imagine 30 years of, of
just thinking, it's okay, this life will one day end and I'll get to heaven and I'll be rewarded for
the trials and tribulations. And then even to be able to examine, like to ask the question
and, you know, I've had conversations with people in similar situations and I've asked them,
what would a universe look like if there was no God? I asked this, this, and they cried.
The, the even entertaining, they didn't know that I was, I think I was a still believer at that stage,
but it's like even entertaining the idea that there couldn't be a God was so heartbreaking to them
that it made them cry and then like they broke, they broke down. And it's like, I wonder for
people, like maybe that's like, what's got something's happened to Frank in his life or
someone's something's happened to, to these people to call it, like it's a sunk cost
fellas. Imagine being part of, for example, the Westboro Baptist Church, which I quoted earlier.
It's like, you know, you've spent years picketing funerals of dead soldiers and, and saying God
hates, you know, the gays and, and, and all that stuff and causing so much to come face to face
with that and realize, oh, maybe that wasn't right is maybe too hard for people to deal with.
And so they, they let like, you know, a lot of them have lost their family because their families
leave the church and they have to disassociate with them. And it's like, maybe that's, it's,
it's like, maybe, maybe everything else isn't as important as that belief. Yeah.
Maybe that's why I don't riddly identify with, with the term atheism, like I don't
say I'm an atheist. Like if you say it, what are you,
atheists might become like number five or number six in the category. And maybe it's only in the
context of the existence of God. But there are other things that I'd like to call myself a skeptic
and a humanist. And then humanists have been superseded by anim, I'm an animalist.
An animal here doesn't mean just animal. The word animal comes, comes from
the enemy which animated, which is anything that has a life in it or the sentient suffering.
So I now would like to reduce suffering, not just for humans, but for everything that feels
pain, right? So I'm an animalist and I'm a humanist, I'm a skeptic, I'm all of these and
then an atheist. And I'll find myself going back to Ricky Gervais, recommend people and you to watch
extras. I've seen it.
You haven't seen extras? No. Oh, you got to see it.
Just so you're aware, like I, you know the XFM show? Yeah. Yeah. So just for the audience, like
in 2002, Ricky Gervais, Steven Merchant had this radio show and they brought in this,
they had this producer come in and they started asking questions and that producer ended up being
Karl Pilkelton who they describe as like a moron essentially and he would bring up these things
like monkey news and stuff. It is my favorite, like I listened to it. I would just like go through
the whole series and then re-listen to it. Like it might have like a month in between.
Fantastic. And after I got off the conversation with Dr. Robin Walsh, the Bible scholar, she
mentioned XFM out of the blue when I was talking about Ricky and we just sat there quoting like
monkey news to each other and like just having a book like it is like my favorite show. If I
could do a whole show with Robin, Dr. Robin Walsh is talking about Ricky Gervais show. I just like
I think it's genius. But then in extras, it's a series where he's trying to get a speak in line.
He's an extra and every episode is a standalone story with a very famous person from Robert De Niro
to someone called Jackson. That's one of the episodes about that is the one.
But there's one scene where he was trying to, he's an atheist. He's always plays an atheist in
all of his shows. One scene where he's trying to date a girl and she ended up being Christian.
Right? And her sister has cerebral palsy, like she's have motor issues and he saw her coming.
He said, oh, she had a bit too many. And he didn't know what she had. He thought she was drunk
and ended up sitting next to him and talks about God. And he's been confronted by this girl who
said, you know, I think when I die, everything's going to be all right. I'm not going to suffer
anymore. He's an atheist. So he could not tell her the truth. He told her, yes, you're going to go
to heaven or you're going to play volleyball and you're going to do all these things. And he was
just, he became suddenly a human first. Another one, it's a movie of his. I'm not sure if you've
seen it. It's the invention of lying. Right? So remember that one, his mother was dying in hospital
and her lost moments and she talked about God and he knows there's no God now and
and then he actually comforted her. So I'm with you. I think it's going to be a very bad taste
to take away from certain people the one thing that probably stopped them from completely
collapsing in the name of intellectual pursuits. I'll have this conversation with those who can
bear him, but there are certain people who I would hide my identity and just become a human
first and everything else will diminish. I will ask them, I'll explicitly ask people now,
are you comfortable talking about your beliefs? If the conversation comes up? Are you comfortable
me talking about my perspective on things? Because I came to realize that it's not my job
to challenge anyone else's faith or anything, even though I think that the world would probably
be better if people were more secular, but at least for the perspective of LGBT rights,
which I'm incredibly passionate about and just like people holding a true worldview and things
like that. But this is something that I brought up when people were arguing about same-sex marriage
plebiscite right in Australia. No, you're in Australia, you know this, right? Yeah, I would say
I was a Christian, I was a deconstructing Christian at the time and I said, you know, in what way
is there anywhere in the Bible it says to create laws around our religion that the rest of the
world has to follow? I can only see that being a bad thing for people converting to Christianity.
I can only see that making people are more like against the idea of turning to God, right? Because
they're like screw the church, the churches, you know, won't let us have riots because of their
beliefs. And I think it's the same with getting someone to think critically. If you just come in
when they're not ready to examine their beliefs, examine their faith, and you just start like
dropping like bombshells on them, like slavery or whatever, like even I got stopped by a street
preacher who was telling me stuff and I asked to politely leave and they said no and then they
didn't say no but they just kept talking and I said I'm not comfortable with this conversation,
I'd like to let them and they just kept talking and like just kept like talking to me.
And I think I asked twice and then I said, well, that's it, like I'm going to take off my boxing
gloves and I said, even then I asked for permission. Yeah, it's easy. I asked you tough
questions about people and they go, yeah, sure. And I said, how do you get around things like
slavery? What do you mean? And you were in it, you know, I won't tell you what happened, but I
will say that as it ended, she's screaming at me, God's gonna harm your heart as I'm walking away
and I'm saying, you must have already done it. And then like, you know, and she was like shaking
and like just like, you know, it was, it's almost like voters, like he sees you as a piece of meat,
you know, like, this is a guy I can convert so I can increase the number, the flock. He does not
see you as Dave, a person with dreams and worries and concerns, a full person that has so much to
offer and so much to understand. He doesn't see us that he sees you as a number, a voter, you know,
votes for the big orange man up the sky, the Trump of the universe.
She was actually a little, little lady probably in her 40s. And she came up to me and I will tell
you what I asked her. She counted to me and said, I used to be a bulimic, I used to this,
God saved me, God helped me, you know, I haven't been bulimic for 15 years and this, this, this,
and like had all these like this amazing testimony. And when I asked her, you know, can I ask you
about your religion after I said, you know, and she goes here and I said, I said, I said, wow,
that's, that's incredible, incredible testimony. I said, would you say that's evidence of that
your God, the God that you believe in is true? And she said, yes. And I said, well, in probably less
strong words, but she essentially goes, yes. And then I said, okay, and I said, hypothetically,
let's say a third person came up into this conversation and they were a Buddhist and they
had very similar experience to yours, but they attributed this to Buddhism. Would that be evidence
of Buddhism? And like this, just spun her out, like this was just like, it was like, she was like,
Buddha's done nothing for nobody. And like, it's just like a real angry. And it's like,
Oh, I think you don't know, because it's true. Like if something's supposed to be so convincing,
whoa, that's amazing. This is undeniable. Like she's painting it like this is undeniable proof.
God exists. This is, this is all true and perfect. And I go, and just, just the question,
so if someone from Islam came up and had a similar spirit, and it just like, because the
answer has to be yes, or it has to be that the evidence isn't good enough to justify belief
in that one particular religion. Yeah. And I apologize if I likened God to the character of
Trump, but I couldn't help the similarities because Trump would say to you, and I've done this,
and it was tremendous, you know, but then God said in the Bible and God created light and
thought it was so it was good. So it's like batting himself on the back, you know. And so I see the
similarities because to me, this has been introduced as the wisest possible being.
You know, there are some verses in the Quran. I mean, we discussed this in a previous conversation
and in the Bible that you would think God said that. God really said that. You know,
the woman who is intervening to stop a fight between two guys and touch the genitalia of a man
by accident. What was God on to come up with that? Why would the woman be punished for that?
You know, well, yeah, it's like, it's like, did God make it up? Or did two like prominent people
have a fight and the wife would always come in and grab the other dude's nuts? We need to create rules
about this. Yep, God said it. Like, you know what I mean? Like, what is it? Like, it's like,
when you look at the God of the Old Testament, especially, it's like, what is the God of the
Old Testament? He feels anger. He feels jealousy. He feels love. He feels hatred. He feels all the
things that humans feel. We weren't created in God's image. He was created in ours. Like, of course,
like God's going to feel jealous. God's going to love the smell of the aroma as we burn offerings
to him. Like, does God have nostrils now? Like, does God have the same, you can probably tell me,
like the whatever nerve endings are in the nose that are required to smell the physical particles
that and how high does this smoke go? Like, does it need a physical brain? Like, is this like,
at what stage do we just go, okay, this seems to be that God was created in our image and not
the other way around? Like, it just seems. Yeah, it seems like God is not even a sane human being,
like somebody with bipolar or some, like, needs some a dose of lithium to stabilize his mood.
He's definitely not a sane person. As if he's gone through the trauma and some philosopher
contemplated that. What if God truly existed since eternity and gone mad with loneliness,
like, absolutely mad? You know, that's its possibility. Why not? It could be a super entity
that's been since the beginning of time, seen it all, and it became so detached from reality
and not feeling anything and just like gone nuts, rogue, crazy. Yeah. Is that a possibility?
You know, I think this divine hiddenness thing works if you just assume a very different God
to the biblical God, like a God that just doesn't give a shit about people, a deistic kind of
understanding of God, or maybe like polytheism, and this kind of like, we're at, we're at time,
that I just only take, keep it for 90 minutes. But, and I think I asked you this, I did ask you
this the first time, but I've forgotten your answer, and I'll ask you again, like, let's,
how, let's imagine a God that would work for divine hiddenness. Like, what, what God would you
believe in? Like, what's the closest, like, let's say there's a magic genie,
you rub the lamp, he pops out and he says, there is, and you go, is there a God? And he says,
there is a God. It's one of the gods that we know about in, on, on Earth, vaguely. And that one's
true by, and then just disappears. You know it's true. You know that one of the gods is true.
Which, which God would you go for? Like, which God would you put your money on?
Not my money on, but I prefer to him to God of Spinoza.
No, you don't prefer, like, no, let's not go prefer, because prefers like, yeah.
Oh, okay. God of Spinoza, he'd be the closest.
Okay, good.
Which is, which, which is God of Einstein, same God of Einstein, God of Spinoza, which is not a
God. So Spinoza was a, is a, is a philosopher who is a, who's introduced pantheism, right? And he
was a Portuguese originally immigrated with his family to, to Holland. And it was excommunicated
from the Jewish synagogue because he was a heretic. And he introduced the God, which was adopted by,
he's almost like the God, God of the philosophers and God of the scientists in particular.
That God is not a God. It's not a personal God. It's the oneness of existence. It's everything.
It's an all encompassing. It doesn't not hear prayer. It's not pity. It's the rules of physics.
It's everything that makes sense. It's, it's the uncompromising gravity and, and quantum mechanics
and all of that. So that's why it was Einstein's favorite God, because it's not really a God that
thinks Spinoza such a genius, absolutely genius. He knew he existed in a world where they must
have a God. So he introduced a version, a watered down version of a God that is declawed and de-toothed
like he doesn't have any sort of the clothes and the teeth of the Abrahamic God. So people can
still have their God because they must have one. But it's one that does not have an implication of
you should do this to the other people. You should kill the Imalakite. You should kill the
non-believers like in Islam. It's a God that encourages reason, thinking and empirical evidence.
So to me, it was a genius maneuver from Spinoza to offer a substitute for
something that humanity could not recover from and could not abandon at that point.
But in a way that can make sense because it's, we're talking about the existence, we're talking
about space time, the canvas, the canvas of existence. And if there is such a thing, maybe
that's it. It'll be the closest thing to, to a super entity for me because it's not supernatural,
that God isn't supernatural, it's just existence. It's just like a, it's like God does not play dice
with the universe. It's like, it's, yeah, I know what you mean. If I had to twist your arm and make
you choose a traditional Hindu Islam, Christianity, Judaism, Mormonism, Jehovah's Witness, like a,
like a flavor of the Buddha, I won't let you go Buddhism because it's non-Basic. But like,
have you ever thought about like a, an Eastern kind of Hindu? I mean, you've tried Christianity,
you've tried Islam. Have you, have you tried Judaism?
Jainism are quite like. Oh, yeah. It's the most peaceful religion on earth. They put a,
a piece of cloth on their mats so they won't swallow a little insects by mistake and they keep
sweeping under the feet. They're just so peaceful. They still come with a bit of issues because
reincarnation is there. It's not, it's not as bad as the caste system in the Hinduism
where, which leads to racism and stuff like that and social discrimination. But it's, it's a lot
better. Yeah, it's not a bad one. It's more of a philosophy as well as, you know,
this has become, this has become stoner talk and ending, but, and I will wrap up, but
if you had to put, if I'd say one of them was true, reincarnation or an afterlife,
what would you say is more possible? Well, reincarnation plays by a little bit of rules,
which is the, that, that, that, that energy is not created and does not get destroyed,
but whether that consciousness is retained, you know, so your atoms, you, when you decompose
your organs and everything will actually go back to earth. That's scientifically proven.
You will recycle, but whether the consciousness persists or not, that's the question, but it's
the closest thing. And then, yeah, you'd have to, like, the whole consciousness problem isn't
really solved, you know, so it's like, so who knows, you know, I'd put my money on reincarnation
as well, but, but I still don't think there's enough evidence to warrant belief in either.
So yeah, it's, it's, it's a difficult, but, but it's, it's one of the things that I would like to
sort of recommend, uh, fellow skeptics is just be a little bit open-minded, but, but according to
Lawrence Krause, not too open that your brain would fall off. So just a jar, a little bit of jar.
And with that, let's end the interview. And if people want to see you interview Lawrence Krause,
how many times have you had him on your channel? Five times. And I think he's coming for the
sixth time in January next year. What an absolute, like, that is so cool. So go check your interviews
out with Lawrence Krause over on critical faculty links in the description down below.
Thanks everyone for coming out. And I appreciate all the comments. It's been nice to see everyone
here at a, at a very different time. So I can't believe, for example, Carrie, that you're still
up. I think it was what you're saying is five a.m. before and you're, you're off to bed. So
that's, uh, that's amazing. Um, but, uh, thanks everyone for coming out. It's been a real pleasure.
Cheers, Dave. Thanks everyone. See you later.
