Welcome to Deep Drinks Podcast. My name is Dave. I'm very excited to be here today because
we have a very special guest, a guest that I have pursued through the wilderness for
many days. Actually, since I think episode nine with Megan Lewis, when Megan Lewis first
said, this is guy called Ocean Keltoi and he's pagan and a bunch of other things and
he's awesome. And I'm so excited to have him on today. His name is Ocean Keltoi. He's
a former Christian. He's now a polytheist, a heathen, a worshipper of the old gods,
a reluctant YouTuber, and he's the owner. Most importantly, he's the owner of a glorious
beard. Welcome, Ocean Keltoi.
I see we're going with the beard as being like an introductory concept. I love it. I'm
into it. But actually, I was running a show on my channel called The Omnipotent Beard
for a period of time. Yes. And it's a play on the arguments around whether or not omnipotence
is a nerd, which is that God can do everything logically possible, which gets reneged into.
God can do everything that's logically possible within his nature that gets negotiated back
from God is all powerful or can do anything. And so I was like, my beard is omnipotent then
because it does one thing, it grows, and that is all that is possible within its nature.
Therefore, my beard is omnipotent. You cannot defeat me. I win.
That's awesome. I didn't know it had a story behind it. Yeah, I actually, I have a story
behind my beard in that I originally grew it and my wife, who just friends at the time,
wouldn't even, I had like a little bum fluff thing going on. Right. And she wouldn't even
look at me. She was like, you're disgusting. She wouldn't even say, like, just like, get
away from me kind of thing. And then when we started dating, I started growing a beard.
And I said, this could be the beard I want to propose to you when I have a beard, a big
glorious beard. And I said, this could be the beard. Yeah, I was like, because I want people
to look back at the photos and be like, why did Dave have that big, disgusting beard?
And these photos, right? So I'm like, I'm growing this bit. So eventually my wife, Amy,
she, she, well, fiance at the time, well, girlfriend at the time was saying, Oh, cool,
like, she eventually got interested in the beard. And then the day that I proposed, I said,
right, I can finally shave it off. And she goes, you can't shave it off. You got to keep it
for the wedding. And then I made all my groomsmen grow beards. So then we like, I had a whole
bearded groomsmen. I got involved in this is perfect beard bearded clubs on the Sunshine
Coast. I've got really into beards. And she hasn't let me shave it since. So I've been
married for like, I haven't, it's subtle as a joke. And now it's, it's just part of me.
It all started as a meme and then it became the truth. Yes. This is my, my roommate has a story
that's kind of like that with his related to the fact that he is a fan of Tom Cruise, right? And
it's gotten to the point where he is no longer sure if it's a meme.
It started as a joke that is like Tom Cruise is his favorite. We got a coffee book with Tom
Cruise's face on it. And or like coffee table book that's got it's like various pictures of
Tom Cruise and everything like that. Now it's like, no, we actually really appreciate Tom
Cruise as an actor now because we love all the impossible films and everything like that. And
it's just, it's, he doesn't know if it's a meme. I don't know if it's a meme anymore.
There's a little Tom Cruise from Mission Impossible for, I think, climbing up the side of
our TV. This is the thing. So anyway,
So I have, I have a question for you that I wanted to dive deep into just, just, just to wet the
tips is, is you say on your, on your Twitch that you live in a dark cave that is also a library.
So I got asked, what's your favorite book? Oh Jesus, don't do that. So I don't know. I,
there's, they're everywhere. I, what I've been reading a lot lately. And that I read,
I read volume nine of last night and volume eight the night before has been the Berserk
manga series. Okay. I don't know if this counts is what you're talking about. But I have become
a big fan of Berserk. So yeah, I might, I'm not done with it yet. So I don't know if calling it
my favorite would be like appropriate, but it's definitely my favorite right now.
Is it like a manga? Yeah. Yeah. And also I've been reading a lot of like
60s to 80s, like Pulp Fiction kind of, kind of stuff. Like,
I recently have been grabbing like old volumes of Conan the Barbarian. I've been reading those
and they're really interesting stuff. That's not the, I thought you'd have some like
ancient like leather bound tome from the, like, I, well, I do have, hold on.
You want to get fancy? Here is my copy of the poetic Eta.
Whoa. It's a big leather bound. Oh, look at that. Look at that thing. I love a classic book.
And it's got like, you know, translations in Old Norse and English. It uses the Larrington translation
done by Oxford. I have to ask, if you're into manga, have you ever read any Haruki Murakami?
You know, calling me into manga might not, I haven't read very much manga. I know I came in
here and mentioned a manga is like my favorite, but I have not read a whole lot. I have been into
some like various comics, but like I've been into Swamp Thing, Red Sonya. I started with
Calvin and Hobbes, who as a little kid, me was a self insert. You know, like this, it's a,
I've been always interested in kind of like visual storytelling comics and all that kind of shit.
But I have not read a whole lot of manga. So it's the Haruki Murakami is not manga,
but it's, he's a Japanese, is really famous Japanese author. And his books are really like,
his novels are really profound, I think. They're dark, they're a bit, they're a bit
like flying the wall kind of thing, a bit perverted. It's good, but it's not for everyone,
but it's good. It deals with magical realism and stuff. Anyway, we can talk about what's fun.
Yeah, just to piggyback on that, I have recently started like hunting down Junji Ito
stuff, which goes back to manga, but like, you know, he does like a lot of like one-offs
that are like horror themed and all of that. So a lot of like kind of like cosmic horror, mental
horror concepts that are really cool. And he does them in a way that's like really visually
interesting. So I've been hunting down some of those kind of things. Cause like between that and
Berserk, I can't get enough. There's a certain kind of media that I really enjoy. And when you
get into like that kind of stuff, I'm super into it. I'm also like into 80s horror and
like any, when you get horror and counterculture together, which was like a facet of the 80s,
80s horror, especially, it was just like, love it. Horror, 80s horror and science fiction and both
like that where there's like, that's where visual counterculture like lived in that period of time.
Oh wow. So I, I, sorry, I, I, guys, I apologize. I have to ask this question. It's just niggling
in the back of my brain. Okay. And I have to ask it. This, no one's going to care. I care though,
is I saw that you were wearing a Starcraft t-shirt in one of your videos and I'm like,
do you play Starcraft? Correct. Uh, yeah. Um, who do you play? I am a filthy, dirty Zerg.
Oh, it's you. Yeah. Yeah. And rush you with drones, motherfucker. Like this. I'm that guy.
I'm Protoss baby. Oh yeah. Fuck you. If you play Protoss and Starcraft one,
that's an unforgivable sin. Protoss and Starcraft two, you're on hard mode, man. Like you're,
you're doing, you're setting yourself up for failure. Honestly, Protoss is rough.
Yeah, dude. It's, it's, it is, it's very rough. I'm not very good at the game, but I'll be down to,
I'll be down to try and crush Zerglings one time. I'm garbage of that game, honestly.
I was straight up with you. I love watching tournaments and stuff like that and playing
like a little bit, but I am, I am in no way like anything close to what a ranked player might be.
Oh no, this is, there are people that are way too good at that. Yeah, I know. It's, it's pretty good.
So let's jump into, let's jump into it before my whole audience leaves and you're also streaming
on your end on Twitch. How many? I am, I am. I'm on twitch slash ocean kill. So I've got 82
viewers right now. Oh wow. That's really cool. So for your audience that might not know, this is
deep drinks. I have conversations with guests over a drink of their choice today. We're drinking
water, which is surprising. I thought for a polytheist north heathen, we'd be drinking like,
I don't know, meat out of a skull or something, but you know, that's on Fridays. You caught me
on a Tuesday. So yeah, okay. That's, that's fair enough. It's, I've told the story a million times.
It's funny because I have Michael Jones on a few times and we drink whiskey. He drinks straight
Scotch and then I have a Satanist who wants to come on and he's like, we're going to have tea and
poppy seed muffin, pumpkin scones. And I'm like, okay, so the Satanist's poppy scones and tea and
the Christian apologist is straight whiskey. Like, okay, this is a weird show. Anyway, so
the first question I kind of want to ask you though is, so let's, let's give everyone a bit
of a taste of a kind of where you came from. You started as a Christian and you moved polytheism,
which is not something you kind of ever hear, at least in the circles.
To, uh, I guess to introduce myself a little bit, I'm Ocean Keltoy and I do a YouTube channel that
deals with like, Heathen Reed, Nor Smith, and polytheism and sometimes philosophy concepts
within that, uh, doing deity profiles and little snippets of history, Scandinavian history,
specifically to do with medieval, the medieval period in the Viking age. So, uh, but as far as
like my spiritual journey and how I fucking got there, I started off as, I started off as a Baptist,
like as a, as a wee thing. Um, and then, uh, we wound up the Baptists. I, in my childhood,
the Baptists were in the midst of their fundamentalist wall, right? And especially in the South.
So, uh, there was the, the wing of the Baptists who at the time were considered a little bit more
reasonable in the Southern, among the Southern Baptists. And then there were what those, what
that group considered the crazy fundamentalists that were slowly taking over the church and the
congregation was slowly, of the church I was a part of was slowly turning more and more into that.
So, we wound up switching churches. Turns out that church that we wound up switching to was even more
conservative than the last one, uh, and things got, uh, just absolutely crazy. So, we left that
church, became very uprooted, and, uh, joined the Episcopalian Church, which was night and day for
me as a, uh, a little kid, right? Um, I was, at this point, I'm like 14, 15 or something like that.
But I go from, like, knowing nothing but Baptist to Episcopalian, where, like, you know,
they have a gay bishop, they're more, is that the, uh, one of the priests at the church was a woman.
These are things that just was not, for me, as a, as a Baptist, right?
So, sorry, just, just quickly, when you say Baptist, because I'm in Australia, is that,
oh Jesus, okay, we're going to have to explain something.
Cliche, yeah, is that, I kind of know what that means, but is it, is it like they wear,
you know, they'll wear, like, button-down tops and a tie, and they'll preach about
hellfire, and they hate the gays and things like that. Is that?
Yeah, it was, uh, Baptist is, the Southern Baptist, a part of an evangelicalist movement,
kind of, so you get, it's within that genre of Christianity that usually comes from.
Mine wasn't as extreme as others that I've heard about, where the pastor is constantly
screaming about homosexuality or whatever. Um, like that was not an experience that I remember.
I remember a conservative interpretation of the Bible, but I do not remember that.
Yeah.
Uh, so, and that's because of the, the Baptist image that I grew up with was on the more, like,
not fundamentalist Baptists when I was growing up. So, um, when I started experiencing that more
fundamentalist side, it confused me. I was like, why are you so overbearing?
Hmm.
Moved to Episcopalians where, like, they're, they're, they're doing the robes, they're doing the wine,
they're, it's a, uh, they have completely different attitudes on social conventions, so, uh, culture
shock, like, from going down the street. Um, but, uh, yeah, like, Baptists were very, like,
conservative and such in that background. Um, but-
Is Greg Locke like a, uh, like an extreme version of a Baptist?
For my familiarity, he's non-denominational. Like, he's in this other crowd that's even worse,
but I don't, I don't know. Maybe he is a Baptist. He's, uh, he's definitely a character far more
out there than anything that I grew up with.
Yeah.
Um, because, like, I remember the pastor that I went, you know, was at the church when I was,
like, a kid before the fundamentalists were taking over, because he got chased out by the
fundamentalist crowd when I was, like, younger. Um, the, but he was much more of, like, a warm and
open guy that it seemed more of, like, you know, what I would, in my head, this is maybe colored
by my childhood, uh, view, right, of just being, like, you know, a nice guy. But, uh, you know,
I remember getting baptized when I was, like, six, right, and he was the pastor that I got
baptized. And I remember him, like, talking to me and just being, like, trying to make sure that
I understood what was, because I was like a little kid, right?
Who was?
I was a little kid and the pastor was, like, talking to him, because I had decided I wanted
to get baptized.
Oh, I thought you were talking, I thought you were saying Greg Locke was your pastor.
No, Jesus. No, no, no, no, no. My pastor, when I was growing up, I was like a little six-year-old,
right? And I'm sitting here getting baptized and I've made this decision and he was like,
all right, you're really young. Let me, let me, like, get a break this down for you. And he,
you know, there's a, there's definitely, it's definitely controversial as to whether or not
kids should undergo rituals like that, LOL. But, like, it's, I do appreciate that, like,
this was in the 90s, the effort that this guy kind of, like, went through in a time in which,
you know, most pastors probably would have been like, all right, let's dunk you, you know,
kind of thing. There was definitely, like, more of a conversation that was going on there,
and it was, and care. So, but that got uprooted. And then I became, and then there was, like,
experience with Baptist fundamentalism and that the church that I knew as a kid
kind of disappeared. And one that I probably wouldn't go to now is the person that I am now.
But, but still, you know, that changed. And then this new thing came along. And then I'm
now in a Episcopalian, and just because my family's moving over. And then this is a whole
different thing. And I kind of liked Episcopalianism, stuck with it for a long time.
And after that, I wound up kind of like getting into like a theological journey of like learning
as much as I could about religion, even outside of Christianity, which concerns some people around
me, because I was in the country. So, and then, you know, I wound up with kind of a, by college,
I wound up as a Celtic Christian, because I wound up traveling to Scotland and Ireland and
learning more about this aspect of a version of Christianity that was far more like
nature connected. And I liked that was gravitating towards that. I have like a little
environmentalist brain, because I should never have been allowed to watch Fern Gully as a kid,
but I did. So, I don't remember. So we went to Scotland. And on our world trip, it was
I think it was part of my deconstruction. So for your audience, I used to be a Pentecostal
youth pastor. I'm now an agnostic atheist, but oh, wow. That's so yeah, that's a journey and tongues
and everything. Yeah. But but when we went to Scotland, a big thing was we went to the places
where they burned the witches and and and there's a memorial for them and people lay out flowers for
them and stuff. And it was in Edinburgh, it was, I mean, did a tour of the Isle of Skye and stuff.
But it was very interesting to kind of see these like these things that, you know, we were hearing
stories about fairies and how like the, you know, there are people who still believed in fairies,
but the fairies, they weren't like Tinkerbell, they were like these little bastards who steal
your shit and cause mischief and stuff. And I was like, kind of mischievous little guys and all
that. Yeah, yeah, yeah. And it kind of like spun me out that, you know, before we made it to Scotland,
we're actually, we're actually in Japan, it was a bit of a big trip and we were standing outside of
a shrine in Asakusa and I was watching people burn incense and and before they go into the Shinto
slash Buddhist shrine and they're burning it and they're blowing smoke in the face. And I had this
thought, are they really being because it was to cleanse themselves for like on the temple? And I
thought to myself, as a Christian, are they really being cleansed? And then I thought, does it really
matter that they're being cleansed? And I thought, if they're not being cleansed, like spiritually,
maybe the tradition is like, maybe the ritual is like, important in and of itself.
Right. And then I was like, does it matter? And then they don't make me reflect on my traditions,
my religions. And then, yeah, it was a wild trip. But that is all to say, how good is Scotland?
So what? I'll get to say, how good is Scotland?
I liked it. It's so good. Yeah. My experience in Scotland was interesting. I wound up
kind of traveling around to a number of like,
I am, I am trying to recall because there's a trip to Ireland and a trip to Scotland and they
blur for me a little bit. But I remember being in Scotland and stopping by Castle Rig, and also
stopping by Iona. And those two locations had like a really big effect on me. Castle Rig has this
stone circle that was like a seem they surmise. It was a trading point. It's like a
imagine stonehenge, but not as big stones and no like horizontal stones, only vertical ones.
And they're, they're about like, need a waist high. And it seemed like it was like a big trading
area where everybody would meet and there would be a declaration of truce, even if everybody was
at war, you would have festivals and people would be able to meet other people basically.
And then everybody would be going back to there after such event and trade was conducted or
maybe going back home. And kind of some of the aspects of this and the spirituality connected
to it kind of like drew me in as a Celtic Christian at the time. And the Celtic Christianity was
basically Christianity inspired by a lot of these things. And that transition point wound up kind
of carrying me into paganism. But what attracted me to Celtic Christianity was the history of
Pelagius, who was this sort of like heterodox monk of the time that did some things that didn't,
he got in trouble with the church a lot and particularly got in trouble with St. Augustine,
who is a contemporary of his. So, but he was very much inspired by his local spirituality and the
because like as Christianity was spreading, it very much mingled with its local cultures and
absorbed them. So Pelagius is just like a effect of that happening in the British Isles. So,
or the Hiberno-British Isles is depending on where Pelagius was. So,
I think your Pelagius video is what really interested me in having a conversation with you
because I knew nothing about any of this. And like the way I've linked it in the chat for anyone,
that it is a fantastic video. And I've also put in the reading recommendations for deep drinks.
There's a link in all the chat, all the episodes is a is the book that you recommend inside of
there. It's called Listening for the Heartbeat of God. Listening for the Heartbeat of God. Yeah.
Well, I believe. Is the name of the author? Yeah, maybe. I'll take your word for it. Yeah.
I'm going from memory, but Listening for the Heartbeat of God is the title. It breaks down
Pelagius and a few other early church fathers that are from the Isles north of the continent.
So, did you have a, I'm going to pull the right comfort question. Did you have a relationship
with Christ? Like, did you feel like you had a relationship with God? And then how did that?
You did too. Exactly. It was very real. So, how did that, and I assume now, do you feel like
this is what's really interesting is, I don't even know if this is something valid in the
in the belief in polytheism, but do you feel like you have a relationship with the gods now,
or is it more about ritual or more about practice? Like, hey, how has that idea of the divine change?
Yeah, the way that that kind of breaks down is there is a relationship with the gods that is
forged out of a gift exchange of reciprocity, that you're making offerings to the gods and
then the gods give gifts back. And there's a, there can be kind of like a relationship that's
similar to what Christians describe. I think it's a little bit different, just the dynamic is a
little bit different. But whereas like, with Christianity, there's such a focus on submission
and that kind of shit, with some people like overcorrect for that when they get out of Christianity,
and they're like, you know, we are, we stand as equals with the gods or something like, no,
the gods are greater than you. But they, the relationship with them is not one of
subservience and submission. It is one of a gift giving between two parties, basically. So
I've brought up the example of a cat that a cat purring is a gift to from the cat. And then you
are also giving gifts to the cat. And then the cat is giving gifts back to you. Sometimes you find a
mouse or whatever. If you have an indoor cat, they get creative. Yeah, sometimes you don't want
those gifts too. Sometimes like, ah, thank you. But in order to like, if you know cats and then
you see a mouse on your porch, right, you go collect the mouse with the cat watching you,
and then maybe you go throw it away afterwards. But you do collect it and show appreciation
to the cat because the cat gave you a gift, right? And so, and cats have like, you know,
it's difficult to say how much they're understanding, but they're definitely
understanding a lot more than a lot of people give them credit for, I think. So,
you know, I think that doing those kind of things is good. But taking that back to humans,
we're offering gifts to the gods that are like, you know, with burning incense or burning something
at your altar or something like that, that probably has about as much usefulness to the gods as a
mouse on the porch. But the idea of showing appreciation and creating in the, especially
with an altar, when you're creating a home for the gods within your environment and burning
incense there and creating and making that a good environment and a comfortable environment,
nice environment, that is a gift to the gods and then the gods give gifts back,
which could be in the form of, in the ancient context, to be like rain on the crops or something
like that, right? Or fair weather for a ship that is taking a trading journey or something.
So, if you're doing like a long road trip or something like that, you make an offering to
say, north or for safe journey and good weather while you're going, or if there is turbulent
weather that you can remain safe in that turbulent weather. So, you know, that's kind of like where,
I don't know, I'm trying to paint something, does that answer your question?
Yeah, it does. So, something, doing my research into for this interview and watching your channel,
which by the way, let me just quickly shout out your channel. If no one, if no one's checked out
your channel before, people need to go do it because, let me just look at this, your channel
is just filled with, first of all, your channel artwork is amazing, you obviously have a gift,
but you've got so many... I'm finding shit, so...
You've got so many awesome videos and I've seen more than what's listed here, I have a
bunch of different YouTube accounts. Yeah, the red line goes away after a while, but yeah.
Okay, cool. Yeah, I was going to say. But yeah, you just got so many many awesome videos,
I... You're just pumping out so much good content and your intro is awesome, but definitely check
out the link that I linked before, which let me... I can't actually click on it, but great channel,
guys, go check it out. But one of the things that when I was doing research was I had...
So, I have totally shifted my idea of what, I guess, what religion, what belief looks like,
because I come from a very, very kind of Abrahamic religion perspective, where it's like belief,
at least with Christianity, with belief is the most important thing, where I'm getting the vibe that
with polytheism or paganism, it's more about the relationship or, I guess, the way you interact
with the gods is more about spending time with them through ritual, through
things like how you're describing, like offerings and things like that.
Is that Brian? Am I on the right? How does it differ?
I was talking with somebody... I almost had a friend, but this guy hates me. I was talking
with somebody a little while ago. Is it Vosh? No, no, no, no. I've been involved in a few,
like, discord debate rooms and all that kind of shit. So, like, every once in a while,
like, an interesting conversation will come out of those. I was talking with somebody
a little while who's trying to make a delineation between religions.
Religion set A is philosophical religion, and religion set B is cultural religions or
ethnic religions, right? And I was like, I don't... I think that's a bad economy,
not only because it's not set up in a X and not X situation, but I don't think that the
categories like work, because he was trying to say Christianity is a philosophical religion,
and say any paganism would be a ethnic religion. I was like, there's some implications there when
it comes to racism and shit that you probably shouldn't be highlighting there, but the conversation
went into a direction where I said, I think a better delineation, and this isn't a dichotomy,
but a better delineation for two groups would be doxastic focused religion and praxis focused
religions. So, a doxastic focused religion would be very focused on belief, that belief is the thing
that matters, and that it's the primary thing the religion focuses on. So, with Christianity,
at least culturally, I'd argue scriptures don't necessarily hold up on this, but at least culturally
within modern Christianity, believing in Christ is the thing that matters the most, with a lot of
other religions. Belief is there, it's like a component, right? It's not like it's not important,
but it's not the important thing. The important thing winds up being related to practice. So,
a praxis focused religion would be having more to do with what you do with these beliefs rather
than merely having the beliefs. So, as with Christianity, you get saved by believing in
Christ, right? And I'd argue it's more than belief, it's submission, in addition to that, when you're
handing your soul over, basically, and all of a sudden they kind of show up.
You're picking up, you're picking up, you cross daily.
Right, engaging in the cannibalistic blood drinking aspect of it, or the whatever it is that you're
doing. It's so weird when you look at it from an outside perspective. It's just so bizarre. I
remember, it's so funny, I remember we went to China, and we went to the top of the mountain,
and they had these temples to Buddha, and we had footage of it. It was like this temple,
it had a Buddha that takes care of your past, a Buddha that takes care of your present,
a Buddha takes care of your future, and then there was a female Buddha, the only female Buddha,
the first or the only female Buddha that's erected as a temple, and you couldn't take videos of her
or anything. And all these temples, and I was showing some family members, and one of the family
members, Christian, gets up, angrily, and goes, to go get a drink of water, and goes, who could
believe this crap? And I'm sitting there like, this is awkward, and I'm thinking like, because
I'm explaining the religious perspective, and I'm like, you kind of believe in God that sacrificed
himself to serve us a loophole, and you drink with the blood of his flesh. From an outside
perspective, all religions look silly. I know people make fun of pagans, and things like that,
like worshipping Thor, and they're like, oh, just because of... Something's something marvel.
Yeah, something's something marvel, right? But all religions look funny from the outside. It's
only when you honestly engage with it that you can... I might disagree with that, but I think
that you could take any religion and frame it in a way that's funny, in order to land permanent.
I think that there's any... Yeah, I would agree. And that's with any religion. You can do that with
atheism, I think, but there's definitely... I've seen like, summarizations of atheism that are meant
to like, kind of poke at it a little bit. Yeah, nothing exploded into nothing that would create
like the whole... The belief that in the beginning, there was nothing which exploded. It could be like
one. Which isn't necessarily atheism. It's more naturalism. No, no, it's more naturalism at the moment.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. The same way that someone might say, you know, like some, you know,
Spider-Man comes into the pagan, you know, like, you know, just the same way, like,
it's a straw man of the actual position, of course. It can be a straw man, but sometimes it's a pretty
good... Sometimes it's just funny. Like, I think that sometimes just the things that we do,
our politics are funny sometimes. Like, there's some of the shit that we think is like,
extremely important. You can frame them in ways that are hilarious. So, I mean, it's the reason why
stand-up comics have existed forever. Just all the things that we do or have importance on,
they are kind of funny. So, yeah. Yeah. So, 100%. So, I've just lost the chain of thought of where
we're going. Yeah, sorry. Oh, no. You're saying that there's ridiculous beliefs within Christianity
as well, and Christians... Oh, yeah. I can't believe I'm on alcohol this time, but... But
Pelagius is someone who you mentioned, who had a different perspective on belief versus becoming
like Christ. Can you talk a little bit more about Pelagius and, like, some of his beliefs and how
they affected you initially when you were kind of dipping your toes? In listening for the heartbeat
of God, there's a letter that's referenced from Pelagius who is saying that the thing that resonated
with me, probably the most, was a letter from Pelagius with, I believe, talking to a woman who was,
I believe, aristocracy. And she was having some trouble reconciling some things with Scripture.
And Pelagius gives her the advice that the true Scripture is within nature,
and then also within your heart, and that Scripture is a reflection of humanity's history with that,
and that with... If you are comparing your inner conscious self with Scripture and there's something
wrong, Scripture is probably what's wrong. And that resonated with me and kind of stuck with me.
So another couple of things that, like, kind of like logic puzzles that he would put forward,
the Pelagian heresy is the idea that it is possible to live a life without sin. And Pelagius put
forward that it is logically possible to do so, and this was a problem, that logically it is
possible to live your life without sinning, and that this could happen. But Christians of the time,
I think Augustine specifically, was very against that. So, like, the belief that that is true
is heretical, which I think is a little strange. But because I think that that's just
Pelagius pointing out something that is the case, that is logically possible to live your life without sin.
But I think this is where, like, original sin kind of comes in, that there are things that you
cannot help but do, right? So therefore, or sin is passed down, right? So if you are living a life
without sin, then you are something other than human, which Christ was. Although Christ was fully
man and also fully... There are... Every time I try and explain Christianity, I wind up getting into
some sort of trap like that with myself. Anyway, there are Christians that can make it make sense
and explain it in a way that is at least compelling and hats off to them. I'm not one of them.
Routinely, I start running into some of these issues, especially when it comes to omnis or
hypostasis of Christ or the Trinity or whatever. They all wind up being logic traps for me, and
I don't see how people kind of get through them, but, you know, great, good times.
But yeah, I think that one of the things that I like about
Polytheist religions is that philosophically, they are a little bit more straightforward,
at least more so than, say, like, Trinity or hypostasis of Christ,
things that wind up being like almost necessarily contradictory when you describe them. So,
yeah, I don't know. So, as a... So, what would we call you? A heathen, a pagan, a polytheist?
Like, what's the umbrella term for, I guess? Pagan applies. Heathen is what I identify as.
Norse pagan also works. But heathen is what I... What is my religion? It is heathenry.
I've got a video that goes through that. It's probably one of my most watched videos
where it's like the terms, heathen, norse pagan, and a saathruh,
which or asathruh is another way of pronouncing it. It's like an Americanized and more... I don't know.
But those are the three terms that are usually tossed around. I go with heathen,
and I think that there is kind of like a demographic of a line of thought that tends to go with the
word heathen. And there's another demographic and line of thought that tends to primarily identify
as norse pagan and another one that primarily identifies as saathruh. So... And there's a...
There's a fourth term in there, which is actually odinist, which is a white supremacist identifier.
You're always... I've seen some people use odinist in order to describe themselves in a way that...
Where they're like ignorant of the cultural context around it. But generally, if I see
like an odinist organization, that is a red flag for a white supremacist organization.
That's something that pops up within this religion whenever you start kind of talk about it with...
When you're discussing belief in the Norse gods specifically,
you get these fucking characters who are very central to a lot of history of modern form of
the worship. So people like Stephen MacNallan, who is like ardent fucking racist, are one of
among the very early characters in the 70s and 80s of the formation of this religion in America.
So... And there's other characters as well. Some of them are more racist than he was,
like outright Nazis. And others are more like, for the time, more progressive minded.
So the history of this religion is very controversial. There's another video on my
channel. I'm gonna keep spitting this out. I'm sorry. But there's a video on my channel that
is an interview with a guy named Ryan that has been involved with Heathenry for a very
long time, is very aware of the history, and it's called Heathenry in America. It's an interview
with myself and Wolf talking to Ryan, who's associated with an organization called The
Truth, which is an older Heathen organization that has a storied history itself. But it is
modernly considered more on the left side of the political divide within the religion.
But he goes through kind of like the history of this, where there are
these characters that kind of started out in the religion. Some of them
lean into very like outright racist fucking territory. And the ebb and flow and whether
or not that conversation was something we should be having or something like that kind of
evolved over the course of the last several decades, up until very recently,
where it's become more of an overt conversation, thankfully. So
yeah, I think I'm done with that tirade. I keep going on something and then I like find
something that's like, oh, no, that's important. We should talk about that. Because like this
like weird like race issue divide, it's called folkism versus inclusive Heathenry, ultimately.
Like I think that there's folkism and not folkism at the end of the day.
And folkism is like this idea that if you're not white, you can't even practice.
Right. And that's where like a big dividing line is that there's people that agree with
that and there's people that disagree with that. So is it possible to, I guess, be a pagan or
engage in Heathenry? I don't know if that's the right termologies. Sorry. But without, I guess,
believing in the gods or is that like a like, say, if someone, I guess,
there is a branch out there called atheopaganism. And they are varying degrees of annoying. There's
Oh, God, I'm gonna get in trouble. So atheopaganism, basically, there's a lot of racist Heathens
actually fall under an atheopaganist belief, atheopagan belief, where that the gods are archetypes
that are of the mind and a collective consciousness of humanity. And that we're engaging with that.
And some, some like of the racist types will take this and then bring it into a belief,
something along the lines of like race souls or some shit, right? So,
but there's this like atheistic sort of image of the gods will go in that direction. Sometimes
like you get progressive, like more science minded people or something like that, people that are
like art natural naturalists, almost a nationalist naturalists, art naturalists will have a kind of
like atheopagan view in which the gods are reflective of their attitudes towards like
environmentalism or something similar to that, right? So there's like a mixture of
of concepts around that. Some atheopagans might be like a reflection of some atheist Vikings in
history in which they are more believers in the self and the, I think that there's a similar line to
like modern Satanism that might show up in there, where the gods might be like symbols for something
to strive to, but when it comes to the beliefs, I think one like early atheist in records put it,
that he believes not in the gods, but in the sinews of his muscles, right? That he's depending on
himself is very rooted within as far as what he believes in. So that he believes that the
character in specific believes that the gods exist, but he doesn't depend on them himself.
And this person is referenced as a kind of an atheist, even though he believes that the gods
exist. So like whether or not he would be an atheist, like depends on like your view. But yeah,
there's a there's a number of ways in which modern atheists might be pagan or might be
considered an atheist, depending on how they're approaching it. So all right, anyway, I take it
that you're not an atheistic polytheist, but so let me hang on, let me put on my fedora, let me tip
it. Okay, let's do it. And go into atheist, edgelord questions. But I guess, well, actually,
it's not really, but I'm asking this in good faith, how do you decide between or decide, but how
how do you become convinced of the existence of one God, or gods, and not others? Or do you believe,
you know, our mutual friend Chrissie said she kind of believes in all of them?
Yeah, I would, I would agree with Chrissie's position there. I'm a pluralist, like aggressively.
So that, that's, that seems very strange to me, but I'm happy to learn. So yeah.
So I think that the major objection of that that somebody would put forward is just to
steal man and opponent sitting over here, not necessarily with the fedora, but let's we can
put the fedora on them. Hold on. Yeah, do you got a fedora? Oh, I need to get one right here.
Yeah, it's a good fedora too. Anyway, I just have that right there. The
the major objection is usually, hey, there are contradicting specifics of myth, right? Like,
let's take an obvious one that doesn't require like a lot of expository.
There are pagan traditions in which one God creates the universe, right? And there are pagan
traditions in which many gods create the universe. These are mutually exclusive beliefs.
Both cannot be the case, right? So how does a polytheist look at one set of gods that are
alleged to have been the creators or a different particular deity that is alleged to be the creator
and say, yes, I acknowledge existence of that deity and I acknowledge existence of that deity
at the same time. Wild, right? So how this kind of breaks down generally is that
polytheists don't are not as like committed to the myths in that way, in the same way that
say a Christian might be. So a Christian would disbelieve in Odin and his brothers for creating
the universe, because that is something that is credited to their God. So they cannot,
it's not something that is acceptable among Christians to believe.
A polytheist, generally a modern polytheist holds that the universe came from something,
it may be the gods, it may not be. Myths say a variety of things. These are the things that
my myths put forward. Whether or not that is the case is not something that matters beyond my ability
to have fellowship with other people. So it may or may not be true that one god created the universe,
no gods created the universe, or many gods created the universe, but we're not going to be able to
have access to that information within our lifetime. So it's really not useful to be fighting over
ultimately. But humans seem to find a lot of time to fight over this thing.
But until it's settled in some way, I don't really see a need to, and polytheists generally
have this attitude where between Khometics, Hellenists, and Heathens, people that follow
Greek gods, the Egyptian gods, or the Norse gods, it doesn't seem to be, or syncreticisms between
those traditions. It doesn't seem to be a point of disagreement. We don't find ourselves arguing
about it because we don't care as aggressively as some Christians do, to the truth value of
those aspects of our myths is not something that is central to our personality in the same way that
it seems to be with Christians. So what about, I'm going to put two fedoras on for this one,
but how would you say, do you draw any line at all? I would say the flying spaghetti monster,
which is clearly a parody. Does the flying spaghetti monster exist, or is that something
that you go, no, silly? I know there's one person in the audience who's going to be really happy
that I'm going to mention this, but discordianism is a lot of fun, and it is something that the
adherents argue whether or not is a parody religion. So discordianism is the veneration
of Eris, the goddess of chaos, and there is, which isn't the chaos that you were talking about
earlier in DMs earlier, but that Eris, in worshiping Eris, it winds up being kind of like a veneration
of absurdism. And the consequences that kind of come from that, every discordian is a pope of
discordianism. For example, one of the things that you do as a discordian is that you go bowling,
or not necessarily go bowling, you make plans to go bowling, and then do not deliver on those
plans that is a very discordian act. And there's a holy text of the discordians
that contains, it's definitely somebody's celebration of their mind just wandering off
and taking full advantage of their stamp collection. And there's a lot of interesting
wisdom within that text, such that I would compare it along with, say, the Book of Proverbs or
the Dada Qing, as far as the wisdom that it represents. But it's arguably a parody religion,
and the deity within it is arguably a parody. And the adherents are in disagreement over whether
or not that deity exists. If there are people that seriously worship the spaghetti monster,
spaghetti monster is something I think that universally, the adherents consider a parody.
So I am willing to respect their belief that their God doesn't exist, right?
With the spaghetti monster, though, if there is somebody that is like legitimately
engaging in practice with the spaghetti monster, and they have experiences that
edify their position, I'm not really wanting to sit here and argue with them as far as what
works for them. It may seem a little absurd, but it's something that isn't raining on my parade
at the end of the day. As long as they're not trying to engage with me in a way that is hegemonic,
you know what I mean? Like in the way that Christianity does, or trying to assert themselves
over me in some way, I generally don't have a problem. I haven't seen that with the spaghetti
monster. I have seen it with Eris, where there are people that are like actively worshiping
Eris. Eris is a deity that follows back into ancient pathology. So I guess the example there
might be a little bit different. But there are deities that might fall into that category that
are that are like modernly worshiped, that are called found gods, that may or may not be parodies
considering, depending on the practitioner. So there's a particular deity called Caffeina
that is the goddess of coffee and late night creativity. And a rather funny idea, right?
But adherence to her, they will brew coffee as the grinding of the holy bean
into the elixir of creativity, that then becomes your fuel into your creative process,
because caffeine is commonly associated with creative endeavors. So, and there are rituals
to Caffeina that involve like utilizing coffee beans and forms of divination.
That I've seen a few of them that are honestly a lot of fun. There's like kind of like a
coffee bean and then like this sort of board that has all these different like absurd
symbols on them and they all have different meanings and stuff like that. And you can kind of
figure out everything from like a writing prompt to what you want to do today on the basis of them
to kind of like springboard ideas. So is that deity real?
You know, it depends on kind of your perspective as a practitioner,
because for some people, Caffeina is very real. I personally do incorporate Caffeina into my
personal practice and for me, I view her as a deity. But for some people that are say like
more naturalist minded, Caffeina might be something that is just a behavioral tool in order to capture
other aspects of their lives and be a springboard for their own personal journey in whatever way.
Like they may view her theistically or they may view her atheistically. And a lot of the gods
are like that as people that view them in different ways. Personally, I favor the polytheist approach
on that and that would apply to Caffeina. And I'm sure that if somebody took the flying spaghetti
monster and believed in them in a way that was similar to Caffeina and was serious about it,
like Caffeina, I don't have very much objection to it, especially if it's like well fought out and
has its own beauty to it. And I can appreciate it on that level.
If I could steal man, if I was like if someone, if I had a magic genie and that told me polytheism
is true in some in some way, paganism is true. And you have to like construct a worldview
that where paganism works under what I understand the worldview is currently.
I would, the best way that I would do it is say that, have you heard, I mention this all the time,
but it's the, I think it's a Buddhist thought where, you know, beliefs in God are like touching
an elephant and they're all touching different parts of the elephant and one, yeah, yeah.
So the way I would kind of look at it is say that we've got these stories about gods and creations
and concepts and deities and cosmology and they're all touching at something that we can't see.
We can't measure tangibly. We can't, people may experience it internally. They may feel a sense
of relief when they do a ritual. They may, they may, you know, experience things. And so therefore,
like, maybe you relate to the Egyptian gods and you really get something from that. And so that's,
that's a way that you kind of interact with, I guess, the unknown unseen
thing. I won't say God, but this spirit realm and these are kind of stories that help channel it
for us mere mortals to kind of understand. So that's, that's, do you think that works?
I've seen this metaphor put forward as like a diamond and you're looking at a diamond in different
ways that you kind of see through the diamond, but, and that different images kind of come out of that.
But yeah, I think that like touching the elephant kind of makes sense as well. The thing that I've,
I have an objection to this and also a embracing it harder perspective. So the objection would be
that often how this gets presented is what is called perennialism, which is the idea that
there is one truth and we are all reaching for that same truth. And that all the different
traditions are another way of viewing that truth, right? But within perennialism, the idea of that
truth has content to it that there is one God and that we're seeking a relationship with that one
God. That's the part of it that I object to, right? Because obviously I'm a polytheist, I'm not a
monotheist. I have problems with, I have objections to monotheism that are further than just I don't
like the idea of one God. So the way that I look at it a little bit more is that each tradition
is a lens through which you are looking at your relationship with the divine, whatever that content,
whatever the content of that is, right? I'm not going to assign necessarily what the truth is
to that. I have arguments for why I think it's polytheism, but it may or may not be, right?
But different traditions have our different lenses on which we are looking at that. And
those lenses can be helpful in going forward through our lives. And some people look at
their world through a heathenry lens. Some people look at the world through
a Roman polytheist lens or a Christian lens or a Muslim lens or a Hindu lens or
combinations of these lenses, right? Some people have like a, they'll take a scientific lens and
then also a religious lens and they're looking through both at the same time and that's a way
that they go through things. That's, I have kind of like an attitude like that. And some people,
you know, there's a combination of things. And I think that this, sometimes when I get into this
element of the discussion, you know, solipsism might come up or idealism or transcendental
idealism, some of these ideas that are putting a question mark on the relationship between your
mind and what your mind is experiencing. But in order to kind of go through that, you have to have
some kind of lens on engaging with what you're experiencing. And if you're engaging with spiritual
experiences, a spiritual lens, at least something that has to do with your perspective on spirituality
will be employed on some level. And maybe that lens is an atheistic one in which you're explaining
these experiences in this way. And maybe that lens is a polytheistic one in which you're explaining
these experiences in this way or a monotheistic one in which you're explaining these experiences
as own other demons or, you know, something along those lines, right? Like this, a lot of religions
have different stories around the same content, right, where there is engagement with spiritual
experience and then how you go forward with that. And atheism is one such tradition that
views it in a certain way. Polytheism is one so has is a collection of traditions that views it
in a different way. And monotheism is another collection of traditions that views it in a
different way. So I hope that explains kind of like, I kind of, no, it does, I kind of,
I can kind of appreciate that. But what would you say to, and this is moving into like a
naturalistic lens, a naturalistic perspective, but how do you, I guess, how would you answer
someone who says, that's all great, Ocean, but it's unfalsifiable. How do we falsify anything
of what you're saying? Because obviously, that's assuming the gold standard is falsifiability,
right? I just, I just said, sometimes these conversations, solipsism comes up. This is
when it does is this point. So, and I've opted to kind of be like, because a lot of people hate
solipsism conversations, I've tend to move towards idealism instead, in which, yes, there's an external
world. And what is being engaged with is external to you. But it's the content to it is more
of mind rather than of physicality. And something that can get very headache inducing
is saying, well, physicality in and of itself is also unfalsifiable at the end of the day.
There's a lot of like, kind of pretzels of justification that a lot of these ideas are
belt upon. And there are arguments in which you can kind of justify an idealist path or a
physicalist path. But ultimately, when it comes right down to it, it's kind of, there's axioms
and that there's preferences in those axioms, and those axioms, and there are sometimes arguments
that might support them. So, you know, to say that something is unfalsifiable, therefore,
I shouldn't believe it means that I shouldn't believe in the external world, because it's
unfalsifiable. Right. I now cannot not be a solipsist, right? Because there isn't an
unfalsifiable way out of it. But yeah, I look, I'm not not big on the philosophy means like,
I'm not very good at it. But I would say that there are degrees in falsifiability, like
certain your chest says there's no atheistic spirituality, Satanism is atheistic and
spirituality. There you go. Anyway, go ahead. I love D this. So,
so I'm losing my chance before here, but the falsifiability thing obviously is looking at
things through. So I've had this same argument with, what's that? A danta? A danta? It's
perspective that essentially, the only thing that we know is consciousness, we don't like,
we can't make rational of the outside world, that's an illusion. The physical world is an illusion,
and what's the only thing because everything comes through consciousness. So our experience
with the outside world comes from consciousness, so we can only know consciousness. But
I think this trans that's that sounds like transcendental idealism to me, but there's a
number of philosophies that have like ideas like that. Transcendental idealism is there is the
phenomena and the numina. So the phenomena is the experience that is going on with the mind
and the perception of the world that we have. So let's say there's a red cup on the table,
right? There is the phenomenological understanding of that cup that is our experience of it. And
then there is the numina of that cup, which is the thing itself. Our perception of the cup may
not be representative of its numinological existence. We are only having the phenomenological
existence. And that's all that we can depend on. So, you know, the universe of what we're
experiencing may or may not be, and it's unfalsifiable to say which way. Yeah, it's a safe
assumption to make that the phenomenological experiences are such because we can build models
out of that. In other words, we're trapped, right? Like there's there is a pragmatic justification
to go beyond the the unfalsifiable step there, right, in order to explore and understand. The same
I would say is true of spiritual truths, right? That there is, there probably is a fact of the
matter, a numinological reality of spirituality. But what we have is our phenomenological experiences
of spirituality. In order to explore spirituality, it is reasonable to make the assumption,
assuming that you are doing so in a way that is not harmful, right? It is it becomes reasonable to
make some of those assumptions in order to explore, right? And that's something that I think is very
important. This is where we might disagree. Sure, let's hear it. So let me let me lay out my
experiences for you. And I'll tell you where my brain went with it. And you can tell me where
your brain might go with it if you had my experiences. So I was a I had a transformative
experience. When I was a teenager, I became a Christian. I looked down at a puddle of tears,
felt hate lift off me, I felt felt like a new person, but born again, became very involved in
the church, prayed for people late later on in the hands, some fall over, I would speak. I had
relating fans as well. Yeah, yeah, speaking in tongues, praying in tongues,
like prophecies, things like that, visions. I then I had a family member who went to another
religious group, and they had experiences that were similar. And I thought to myself, those devils
are getting those demons are getting clever. They're mimicking the same things that I experienced
at church, but for a false religion. Right. And then so that was, you know, I'd eventually
left Christianity, for various reasons, wouldn't go into that. But the things you were saying
were an imitation. I don't know what religion it was, but there were it was some Eastern perspective.
Okay, yeah, you were having rolling out. They'll, it wasn't me was a family member, they were
falling over on the floor, they were all praying for each other. It was something to bat at the
time of praying or something. Yeah, it's a very Eastern thing, but they're laughing and like those
demons, they're praying. Yeah, yeah. And I was like, Oh, those demons are getting clever, they're
mimicking what's happening at church. Later in life, I was, you know, sitting poolside in Bali,
drunk, listening to the Bhagavad Gita, because we're in Bali, it was Hindu Island, I wanted to
learn about Hinduism. And it got to chapter nine, I think it was, and it hit me like a ton of bricks,
you know, I am the flame, I am the wood that is burning, I am the flame that consumes it,
I am the beginning, I am the end. I was like, am I reading this? Is this Psalms or Isaiah or
something? This is like profound. And it really was impactful to me. I love the Bhagavad Gita,
by the way. Oh, it's amazing, especially the Iknash translation, I think it's Iknash translation,
I love that translation. But so I felt this, you know, peace, or this, this, this awe around that.
And then I feel the same awe when I read the Bible sometimes, even now, as an unbeliever,
and even now that I find some of the Bible disgusting, when I read the Quran, same thing,
I felt found parts of it beautiful, and I find parts of it disgusting.
I look at all those things, and I say, okay, there, I've had these experiences, other people
have had similar experiences for different religions. People have had, I get peace when I
read the Bible, I get peace when I read the Quran, I get peace when I read the Bhagavad Gita.
They're all telling contradictory ideas of the world, the cosmos, everything like that.
Therefore, there must be something else going on that, like, I'm experiencing these things,
but where I'm directing, like, I don't attach a truth claim to that anymore. I go, I experience X,
but I don't say, therefore, thing associated with X is true. I don't attach that truth claim
anymore. How would you approach something like that? I think this is where kind of like a difference
between polytheists and atheists kind of comes into play, in that with polytheists will, if there
is a seeming that it is, that there is a root of an experience external to oneself, we will embrace
that and explore on that level. With a lot of atheists, what I think happens is that they wind
up seeing this kind of thing, and they go, and they conclude, therefore, this is something that
is happening internal to my mind, or my brain, depending on the atheist, right, mind, brain
conversations, but that this is happening internally, and therefore, I'm going to explore it on the
basis of that level, right? And I think that either one of those winds up being like justifiable.
I'm not, I'm not somebody that's of a position in which atheism is absurd or ridiculous kind
of thing. I think it's entirely justifiable. I think the same of polytheism. I put a big
question mark on monotheism when it comes to that, because I think that it has
monotheism, I don't, I don't think has the strengths that you could apply to atheism or
polytheism in this case, because a multiplicity of diverse experiences, for example, an atheist could
explain just by using this internal argument. A polytheist can explain in saying that there are
multiple gods. A monotheist has a very difficult time with doing that, and they usually have to
relabel things and call them demons or something. But I even think that the atheist winds up
relabeling things in that context by saying that the multiplicity of religious experiences
winds up being relabeled as something that is going on inside of the brain. The polytheist
is the one that is engaging in this with this directly and saying that we're looking at this
on the basis of seemings and then exploring with the assumption that this is face value of the case.
Now, you're talking about reading content that is contradictory between multiple religions.
It is entirely understandable, at least from a polytheist perspective, that with humans being
involved in the process of writing content related to their spirituality, that there's going to be
disagreement and some people might be right, some people might be wrong. There's not very much a
good way to... How you kind of tell the difference between those becomes a very infuriating process,
when it comes to something like, what is the fact of the matter of creator or something like that,
or how many gods are there or whatever. But the polytheist is then going to be looking at this
more directly. The atheist is doing something that is... Oh, right. As far as that content,
because the human is involved in that, of course, there's going to be differences between texts,
between cultures, and all of that kind of thing. So seeing that there are differences between the
texts and that each of them is bringing you peace, I don't think it's a sign that all of them are
false. I think it's a sign that they may be... It's something more akin to your elephant analogy
at that point for me. But I can also see the perspective of somebody who then looks at that
and goes, well, I'm going to explore this from a different angle. I'm going to explore this as if
this is originating internally, and then go on that route, right? Yeah, it comes down to lenses,
doesn't it? Like really how you view, where you start from, like the perspective that you hold.
And I think that there really is something to, just at least, I guess, accepting the fact that
there are lenses that people can view this life, this cosmos. Yeah, I mean, we could go more and
more into that, but we're running out of time, and I've got a list of stuff.
I knew when you sent me the list, I was like, there's not enough time to cover all.
I was like, all right, we're probably going to have to do two or something like that. But I guess...
If you're down, I'll totally be down to do that, because there's so much...
This has been fun. To address something that's kind of coming up in your chat,
that as far as unified worldviews or something like that, there are people who are idealists
who engage with science, and there are people who are physicalists who engage with science,
and they do so using the same information, and they have completely different views about
what the base material of things is. So as far as unified worldviews, I don't think
that there is one. I think that there's different starting points, there's different lenses in
which how people are viewing the world, and the diversity of that at the end of the day is
something that can be celebrated and viewed approached in a way that is pluralistic and
with tolerance, or it can be viewed in a way that is doxastically strict in which we're saying,
no, no, no, there's only one acceptable way to do things. And that is one of my fundamental
problems with Christianity is that they go about things that way. And I think that a lot of atheists
that are former Christians especially, when they leave Christianity, they take that attitude
along with them, that there is only one right way to view things kind of thing, right? We don't have
enough information, there may be one correct way to view things, there's one truth or whatever,
there's one fact of the matter of the universe, but we don't have access to it. And having a
diversity of views in order to explore it, and being able to share them in a way that is pluralistic
and with tolerance is going to be something that is going to help us develop not hinder in my opinion.
Yeah, I think I'm on the same page, and I think this could be a series of conversations because
I feel like there is a clash of worldviews a little bit between us, but we can do engagement
in a respectful way that kind of is interesting. So one thing I wanted to touch on, and I promise
we would, is I wanted to talk a little bit about controversial deities, but before I do that, let
me just shout out my stream. If you guys are new here, deep drinks, we have conversations over a
drink of the guest choice. Coming up, we have Warzone Journalism in Ukraine with Dylan Burns,
which would be really awesome. We also have Ryan Coltas, an extra healthist witness coming on,
and we have a genetically modified skeptic coming on, Drew, which would be awesome, I haven't
linked them yet, but if you guys like content like this, make sure you subscribe, and also
check out Ocean Kelpoi, which I've shared before, amazing content. So let's talk about
controversial deities. Okay. What are they? Are they viewed as like demons? Are they viewed as like
within heathenry? And this is going to get very tradition specific. The tradition that I'm most
familiar with is heathenry. We talked a lot about polytheism generally, but when it comes to a lot
of the content on my channel, there's some things that talk about polytheism generally, and a lot
of it is about heathenry specifically, because that's the tradition that is relevant to my practice
the most, and is the one that I focus on as far as like building educational content around.
Controversial deities fall into sometimes a category that is,
some heathens will call eten, or yoten is another popular term for them.
And then there are some popularly, there are some deities themselves that are considered
controversial as well. So whether or not a yoten is a deity is something that
some heathens will argue about from time to time. And personally, I think that they fall under
a polytheist definition of gods. So it's fine to call them gods, in my opinion, I in fact do.
There are some that want to modify the definition a little bit and engage in different presuppositions,
and that's fine, whatever. But an example of a deity that is particularly controversial would
be Hel, who is the goddess of death. And then there is also Yoramangandar, who is the world
serpent. Fender, who is a representative myth as a giant wolf. And there's also the father of all
three of these, Loki, who is particularly controversial in modern heathen worship. The most
controversial, I would say, among those is Loki. Although depending on the community,
you might get some people that get a bigger rise out of one of the other three.
But some people do view them as demons. It's very interesting. I have seen responses to
hell worship that are very pearl claspy, that fly in the face of what we were talking about earlier
as far as lenses and tolerance and pluralism, that go, oh, you worship hell, she is the goddess
of death. This is a problem. Q ran the thing that as far as like a defensive hell, and I've
written the paper on hell, and I've written a paper on Loki that were published under
a group called mystic south. So if you look up mystic south resources, you can find both of
these papers. One of them is called reviving Loki. The other is called justifying the
reconstructionist view of hell or something to that effect. It was a really wordy title.
I should have worded as something like reviving Loki. But for justifying hell, she is seen among
her adherents as a very maternal force that is a caretaker within the afterlife. And from the
perspective of somebody who maybe has dealt with a lot of close calls with death or has had a lot
of death in their life in whatever way, it makes sense worshiping that deity does make a lot of
sense and there's a lot of comfort that can come from that. Personally, hell is part of my altar
as well. And for similar reasons that I just mentioned, there's been a lot of bullshit that
has happened in my life, and hell is a source of comfort at the end of the day. How do you spell
that name, sorry? H-E-L. The linguistic root is the same as the Christian H-E-L-L, right?
And this is one of the reasons why she's considered spicy is because her name is
this name, right? Oh, I worship hell, the goddess of death. That sounds very spicy.
Uh, so... Is it similar to, uh, uh, Mary, uh, Santa Marta? Santa, uh, oh my gosh.
Not familiar with the particulars regarding that as much, but I've heard
that the answer is yes, that there are similarities. Um, but yeah, that's one image of her. My,
if you go to my video, the thumbnail image is pretty cool. I chose a very gothy
image of her. Um, let me just, uh, flip to it.
Wish, uh, if you have to, you have to scroll down a wee bit.
Uh, there it is on the, on the right side of the top.
Oh yeah, this doesn't mean you've got the, I'm like, are you using AI art? How are you finding me?
No, no, I'm finding cool shit. Oh wow, that's awesome. Yeah.
That's cool. I'll have to watch that one. Yeah. Uh, but there I go through all the records associated
with her, um, that are, go from like a Danish record, uh, Norse records, uh, the various sagas
that talk about her. Um, and there's a process of, of, uh, what is the word that I use? Like they,
uh, kind of turn some of the, the gods, like Christian writers that are recording records
about these gods who are ashamed of their past, basically, are writing about these gods in the
context in which they are like making them into demons, right? So hell, uh, in one saga is referenced
as a demonic queen and Greta saga, she is Loki's evil daughter, right? But, uh, when looking at her
as far as like from a practitioner standpoint, uh, and looking at other stories of her, including
Snorri's story of her in which she is a, uh, aggressively protective caretaker of the dead,
um, there is another, like, warmer maternal image that comes from, like, worshipping her,
and that practitioners that include hell within their practice near universally, uh, state that
there is a, a warmer presence there than what is often described and the similar, similar is true
with Loki. Loki is a god of chaos. There's a lot of like, like little, if, if there's a bloat where
Loki is being venerated and any little mishap happens, Loki gets blamed, right? Because it's,
it's almost a meme, uh, to blame the god of chaos for any mishap that takes place. Um, but when
you're looking through the, the legends of Loki and we would need a lot of time to kind of go
through it, but Loki winds up actually being like a very honest deity who kind of lawyers his way
out of things is like very, what he is saying as a promise is very literally the case. Uh, for
example, um, if he makes a promise that here is the deal, you have to build this wall with the help
of no other man. And the person says, well, can I bring my horse? Well, the horse is not a man. So I
guess, I guess I have to advocate for this, right? Like, um, or when he then turns into a mayor to
distract the horse away, that wasn't part, the part of the agreement wasn't that I couldn't distract the
horse, right? I can, I can still do this. I can, I can fuck with you a little bit. Um, and there's
another, uh, point in which he wagers his head in order for dwarves to build, uh, greater gifts.
And then the, when the dwarf comes to claim his head, he says, you may have my head, but you may
take no part of my neck. Um, and at which point you can't cut off his head because it involves the
neck. So, uh, the, the dwarf then decides to sew his mouth shut, um, which is interesting because
Loki is known for his verbose, uh, words, uh, and in such a way of a clever way with words that he
has throughout these scripts and Odin is missing an eye and yet he has incredible sight. Heimdall
is missing, uh, an in ear and yet he has incredible hearing. Um, Loki's mouth is sewn shut and yet he
speaks with, uh, such charisma and, and, uh, care almost. So, um, so yeah, there's, there's a, it's,
so the, the deity gets more controversial than I think the, they deserve almost in the, in both of
those cases. Interesting. So when you say, cause you said hell was part of your altar.
Same with Loki and Jormungandir. And so, uh, I have a little place in my, in my home in which
there are little statues of gods. Um, and that is a place where practice takes place. Offerings are
made. Uh, so there might be, um, a libation offering in which a liquid is put into a cup
that liquid is then given to the gods and then poured into a bowl that is on the altar, uh,
or incense is burned in order to make the environment in which you've created for the gods
within your home, being the altar, a nice place. Uh, that's, there's a number of kind of processes
that go into that with the practitioner and their interaction with the, with the altar. Um,
but, uh, that's basically it is that it's a, it's a place to which the gods are invited within the
home, uh, and care for that altar is a part of a lot of polytheist practice. Um, so on my altar
are a number of gods, uh, you know, including ones that might be considered standard among
heathens such as Thor, Odin, Frig, Freya. Uh, but also there are deities that may or may not be as
common such as Older or Eyer, uh, and Ron. Uh, and then deities that some people consider very
spicy, such as, uh, Fenrir, Yormungand, or Hell, and, and Loki. So, um, there's, there's other
deities that some people consider really spicy, like Sert and Loki and some of these other ones
that are all more heathens might consider demon-like or whatever, but, uh, I, I don't view them in that
way, uh, as, as they do. Um, I tend to have a look, view of like seeing what is considered
like the darker being and looking them in more of a balanced way of what they represent and what it
is a reversal of and all of that. Uh, so, yeah. It's, uh, you know, even as a, as someone who, um,
as a fedora-tipping atheist, I, I still see benefit to ritual, even if it's, if I don't consider it
true, uh, like from, but, but like I can see how engaging in, uh, ritual every day, like we do,
and we do this with everything we clean, we may, we may sweep the floors every day, or we may mop,
or we may do, we may read, or we may do these little things that we do, I think are innate in
what it means to be human. Like, and I think that, uh, there's something to that. There's
something to the ritual. And yeah, I, I find it fascinating. I'm fascinated by ritual. I'm fascinated
by how people engage with, uh, religious iconography and make rich rituals out of them. It's, it's
something that I'm a fan. Absolutely fascinating. And I, we, we haven't even touched on,
touched on almost anything that I like. There's so much more to go into. I think we need to do a
stream just on Loki, to be honest, because I feel like you're, you've got so much you want to get
out with. I don't have any videos yet dedicated to Loki. I've written this paper recently, but, um,
that is something that I'm working on now where, uh, I've, I decided I could go two ways with doing
Loki videos. One, I can make some Loki videos and then make a bunch of other videos that I would
need in order to support that video, or I can do the videos that I think need to support the
Loki video first. So I've done videos on Holther, the deity that Loki hands the mistletoe to kill
Baldr. Uh, I've done a video on each of Loki's, uh, offspring or the, the three spicy ones.
There are more children of Loki, but the, uh, Hellfender and Yormungandr all have a video, uh,
on my channel. And so when mentioning your chat, wouldn't Thor and Yormungandr fight if you put
them on the altar? I addressed that within the Yormungandr video. Um, so there's, uh, um, you'll
have to watch it, but, uh, the, uh, I also made a video on Baldr very recently, um, that kind of
changes, uh, some different views on Baldr that have been out there. I have a, I have a, uh,
what might be considered a heterodox view on Baldr. Um, a lot of people don't really know what to,
kind of how to approach Baldr. He is a god who is dead. Yes, but that actually has kind of content
to it. It's actually very interesting. Let's dive into it. Um, so, uh, now I feel like I've made the
videos and Bali and, and Vali, the two deities involved in taking revenge within that Baldr myth.
Now I've got a, um, a, uh, a video that I'm working on that is going through all the myths of Loki
and providing kind of like some context and my thoughts on, on each myth, uh, which is a monster
of a video and, uh, I hate myself, but, um, that's, it's hard. Hey, it's really hard to put out good,
to good content. Like it's, it's a lot of work, a lot of work, a lot of time. Um,
so I asked this to, uh, to Chrissy, a mutual friend, uh, who, when she came on,
love Chrissy by the way. Uh, yeah. Yeah. Like she just, it annoys me how much she knows. Like she just knows a lot.
Yeah. Uh, we had a concession. We disagreed. We disagree. Like Chrissy, Chrissy is one of these people.
When I first met Chrissy, Chrissy, it was years ago. Chrissy was somebody, when I bumped into her,
uh, just knew way more about the intricacies of Platonism than I could even try to approach.
Uh, and, uh, as well as like aspects of, of Roman and Greek history and how those kind of like
intertwined with each other and how they're related to the Levant as well. I was, is, I'm wildly impressed
with Chrissy. Um, so, uh, and that was years ago. Um, and yeah, Chrissy's great people. So
yeah, stuff. She's like, I watched a couple of episodes on, uh, on, uh, Mithvision and it's
recently, it's really good. But we, I brought it wrong because we disagreed on, uh, it was,
didn't have anything to do with religion. It was, um, to do with, um, platforming. Uh,
Oh yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So it actually started. She was great to talk to me. Yeah. Chrissy called
me out for having someone on. We kind of disagreed on, because they, a long story, but
we had a big back and forth and I said, on Twitter, I said, can we just jump on a call?
We jumped on a call and by the end of the call, I was like, okay, like, we still disagree, but
there's a good conversation I have here in the pep and conversation. And we ended up being,
I think you wound up moving on that issue, right? This fair call that, or that, uh,
or how you approach that. Oh yeah. Yeah. So initially, initially, uh, initially deep drinks
was about like good faith conversations about, um, kind of anything. So I would
do essentially what, um, what's his name, uh, Louis Thoreau does. Like you go talk to the
the West by Baptist church or white supremacists. And so the concept was similar to that. And I'll
bring anyone on and I'll try and give a best faith interpretation to their worldview. Right.
However, what I started noticing in the people I wanted to have conversations with were like
people who survived bigotry with the, in, because of their parents, maybe they're
part of the LGBT community or, or they, they left their religion. And I built this community that
was kind of a support for a lot of people. And it was also, it was a kind of, uh, a place where
we weren't, I wasn't super atheistic, but I definitely shared mine, but like I, I would talk
of interview atheists a lot and things like that. Uh, but I would also have conversations with
Christians, but what I, so it was confused messaging. If, if, if this was like controversial
drinks or whatever, yeah, I think that, but I think it was confused marketing there in regards
to like, it looks like I'm having someone on because I want to be buddies with them.
Doing interviews with people that are like particularly spicy, especially depending
on the beliefs when you get into some really, you know, some, some wild territory,
it requires a lot of preparation to be able to push back on them and recognize the little
things that they do. That was something that I realized when I was in the back in like the
days when the alt right was more popular than it is now. Oh, they were the glory years.
So, you know, yeah, when you say like, I love watching destiny just like wipe the floor with
these dudes. Right. No. Okay. I know you're talking about now. All right. Yeah. There's a,
definitely like some blood sport periods of time around when that was going on. There were,
there was entertainment there. The problem is, is that there, it takes a certain kind of personality
to notice all the little things and to be able to pounce on them when they happen. Yeah. And make
sure that the person that you're interviewing that is spicy knows damn well that if they pull
that shit, they're going to get called on it in that interview. It changes the dynamic of the
interview entirely and the way the conversations happen. So, yeah, it's, it takes a practice and
a certain kind of person. I don't know. You know what I mean? If you're just trying to be like
chill with them and stuff, that can definitely communicate the wrong thing, right? So. Yeah,
I know. There's definitely like, I definitely think I would still have controversial figures on,
not necessarily white supremacy or anything like that, but it would be like a recorded interview.
I'd make sure that I can't, that I'm not giving credence to their audience or anything.
It would have to be extreme circumstances for me to do that. Like say, for example,
someone's like, Jordan Peterson wants to debate you. I don't have any respect for the man,
not much respect for the man, but the opportunity to explain to him why I disagree with him.
And I guess, at least maybe pull some of his audience away from the extreme, extremist views.
I think could be what I, again, we might, we might have some disagreement on that. But like,
that would require, I'll listen to another hour of conversation and like, how, like you approach
that. Cause that can get, cause like, there's a backfire effect that can happen from that
very easily. If you don't manage yourself correctly, like say that you get into a
debate with Jordan Peterson, right? And there is, you realize after that conversation that there
is no way to look at that debate other than that guy just beat the shit out of you in that
conversation, right? How do you upload that? Are you ready to do that? Right? Like the,
there's consequences to that whole thing. And if you trash it, what does that communicate as well
to your audience, to your opponent, to you? That's, uh, it's, it's, it requires a lot of,
yeah, because the, because I think that we're getting, we're getting very meta now. We're
talking about the, we are, but the thing that, the things, but yeah, let's go ahead.
Yeah. I guess the problem that I had is like, let's say, uh, I think the, the, the thing that
I brought up is we have like this, like, you know, five, if I was having conversation with
a white supremacist five years ago, it would be less, it'd be, um, more responsible than I would,
would be now because it's more prevalent now, but like at the time no one could, like no one was
a white supremacist. It was a joke. Like you wouldn't, you weren't a white supremacist. Like
they were mocked and laughed at. Um, it was silly, like Klu Klux Klan and all that stuff,
right? Uh, but then I would have like a Christian on, and I would say that some versions of
Christianity are far more damaging to people, like the LGBT community, to, uh, politics than
any white supremacist. So I was like, how do I, like part of me was like, how do I have conversations
with people when, uh, like maybe their, their worldview and their, their branch of
philosophy, their worldview, their ideas are actually, they're more accepted and they might
be more mild, but as a result, they're more, uh, they create like harsher effects for people
that care about LGBT women. So it's like to, uh, to kind of piggyback off of that.
And if you decide to avoid all of those things, right, then your interview show just becomes
a hug box and you don't want that. Yeah, yeah, exactly. It's not as interesting. So, uh, you
know, yeah, it's definitely, there's definitely a lot to balance when going through all of that.
So, um, yeah, I thought I'd give you the last word. I have responses to what you said, but I think
I'm just going to put them on. Let's, let's leave another conversation because I think that it's,
it's still important. Um, but, and that's why I had Christian because it was important.
But the, anyway, that's all to say that this is the question I asked Chrissy. So I'm going to ask
you as well. Go for it.
What is the most plausibly true religion that you don't believe in?
Most, wait, say again.
What is the most plausibly true religion that you don't believe in?
That I don't believe in. Uh, so, uh, this is going to be spicy. Um, so, okay.
Let me think about this because as far as like religions that I don't believe in,
I would just say that I like, I disagree with the overarching message or something like that.
Um, I have a lot of appreciation for Islam.
Um, and something that struck me while watching, uh, Muslim debaters was when they were going
after Christians on the Trinity, right? Now I have a list of reasons that I disagree with Islam
that are honestly very similar to some of the reasons that I have objections to Christianity.
But dear Lord, when I see Muslims and Christians debating, does the Muslim win
damn near every time? Uh, so as a result, I've wound up having just like a lot of appreciation
for Islam as a result of that. As far as like what religion would I be if not a pagan? I
probably would have wound up back into Episcopalianism, uh, after a while. Um, I might have
experimented with Islam. I don't know where it would have gone. Um, but, uh, you know,
the problem, the problem that I have with Christianity ultimately, I had to do with kind of,
I have, I see kind of an absurdity with monotheism as an idea, right? So if the religion is monotheistic,
I have all of these heavy objections to it, right? But there are some that deal with that,
with that well better than others. Um, and from what I've seen of Islam, and I haven't done like
huge deep dives into Islam, there's some, there's at least a lot of conversations in which they're
grappling with those things. Uh, and Episcopalianism, I think has a, um, is part of a philosophical
tradition, uh, that at least addresses some of these problems. Um, but yeah, I guess there's also
a reason why I'm not either of those. Is there, is there ever a timeline, um, where you're an atheist?
I don't know. Uh, atheism never sat well with me. I tried it, I tried it out. There was a
point where I was agnostic, which to some atheists would be atheism, right? Yeah, yeah, it depends
And, uh, you didn't like the taste of babies?
So for me, let's see, uh,
for as far as like what, I went through a period of time in which it was like, I am not
believing in anything. I'm going to just wipe the slate clean as before I wound up becoming a
polytheist. I'm going to wipe the slate clean and I'm just going to be, right? Because I found
there was a point in which, um, like the, the agonizing that I was having overleaving, overleaving
Christianity, uh, and the kind of like fear of hell that was kind of like associated with that
was a huge weight. So I was like, all right, I'm just going to take all this shit. I'm going to
put it in a box and I'm going to put it aside and I'm not going to pay attention to it for a while.
And I was just going to live that way for a period of time. And for some, that might be an atheist,
right? Um, that didn't, that status did not last a very long time. I wound up kind of like
getting more involved in spirituality on some level. I wound up exploring Taoism very seriously
at that point. Uh, I'm still very influenced by Taoism as a result. Um, and you can view Taoism
atheistically, uh, some people do, some people don't. Um, but, uh, you know, if there's a timeline
where I'm an atheist, it would be a very Taoist influenced atheist, I would think. Um, but so,
yeah, let me just, I don't know. Let me just run out this interview about complimenting you and
saying what I really appreciate you, appreciate about you is that you're very open. You just,
you seem to, you know, if, if I came to you with some ancient Egyptian texts and gave it to you
and you're like, Oh, this is, it's quite interesting. You'd open yourself up to it and you might take
some wisdom from it or you might, you might make your point about things. And I appreciate that
about, uh, yourself and, and I wish that a lot more people will like that. Atheists included.
Um, because I think that's, that's a very noble thing to do. So well done, Ocean. Appreciate it.
Thank you. Uh, well, I appreciate your openness in this conversation. This has been a very good
faith. Kind of like, I try to be, so I try to be, I've had some spicy experiences and
interviews, like we saw the Vashh conversation. That was, that was, that was my missed questions.
I wanted to ask you about that, but, uh, because that was, uh, that was funny because actually
a lot of the time I agreed with sadly, sadly, I agree with some of what Vashh was saying. Um,
but at the same time, I think that there's a little bit more nuance to the way he was approaching
it. He was going on some like anti-religion arc because, uh, yeah, which I went on anti-apologetic,
apologetics arc of, you know, a few months ago. His, his community did not respond
as well to that as I think he hoped that it would, he kind of laid off the topic after,
for, uh, after that conversation. Um, because like my point, the reason why I structured
the argument in that conversation, the way that I did was, uh, or we can get into this later or
something, but the reason why I phrased, I structured that argument that way was I know
Vashh appeals a lot to coalition building. And basically my position is that anti-theism and
the way that he was expressing it, uh, and I think that anti-theism in general kind of comes off this
way. It is antithetical to coalition building. It does the opposite thing. It's not helpful to
what you're trying to do and just lay that argument out there. And I think that it was
somewhat communicated. Um, but the conversation wound up kind of like veering off a little bit
in ways that I didn't expect. Um, I prepared for that debate. I didn't, I was not necessarily
prepared for the, some of the, the paths that it took. Um, but I do, I am like comfortable with how
that, uh, conversation went and I'm comfortable with the effects that it had, uh, as far as I
could tell. Um, so there was some interesting things that kind of happened after that, like a
number of people tried to like capitalize on drama relating to Vashh by reaching out to me and all
that kind of, and I was just like, I'm not doing any of this shit. I had one conversation. I had
the conversation I wanted. That was it. I'm moving on now. Um, and we guys ever have a conversation
again? Do you think or debate? Uh, he and I have, uh, uh, communicated cordially in DM since then.
Like it was a, I think that one thing that came, it came about as a result of that conversation
was mutual respect at the end of the day. Um, so, uh, that, that's an effect that happened. Um,
where I think that both of us regarded each other as, um, good at the debate game, right?
And, uh, that was something that, you know, where we have communicated cordially since then.
So, um, will there be another conversation like that? I honestly doubt it. Um, it takes a,
I don't like doing debates generally. Um, I think that especially like kind of stage debates,
they can get really toxic and almost for no fucking reason. Um, but, uh, I will,
there is a game to it and I can, I understand the game. Um, but yeah.
As far as like another one with Vash, I don't, I don't anticipate one. I don't foresee one
from where we're sitting, but that could always change. I don't know.
Cool. Well, um, thank you so much for coming on. This has been a great chat. I've got so much more
I want to talk to you about, but I've got to go after work and you've got to get, um, keep streaming
and, uh, but, uh, happy to have you on again. Uh, so thank you so much. We have one super chat,
$5. Enjoy the conversation. Thanks guys. Thank you. Jason Rollins. I really appreciate it.
And hello to all your audience over on Twitch. Make sure you come and subscribe to deep drinks
and everyone on deep drinks. Make sure you go subscribe to ocean. Uh, I promise we're great
channels. Anyway, without said, thank you for coming on and we'll talk another time.
All right. Cool. Cool. And I'm going to keep streaming on my side. So I'll see you over there.
And thank you very much, David, for hosting this. This is a wonderful conversation and I
appreciate you. Awesome. All right. Good one. Bye. All right.
Bye.
