Would an all-powerful God need to rest on the seventh day?
When I posed this statement on Twitter, it seemed to panic some apologists.
By the way, the Bible doesn't say that God needed to rest on the seventh day.
Correct.
God was teaching us to rest and rest in him.
I know right.
It said he rested.
He stopped creating.
It was good.
It was very good.
God doesn't need to rest, ever.
He was setting an example for us.
David McDonald needs some serious education.
God rested on the seventh day as a divine example.
Is that how it works?
When God flooded the earth, was that an example of how we should act?
Should we lose wild animals on children if they insult a prophet?
Should we murder the infants of nations enslaving God's people?
Should we set fire to cities when we find them immoral?
Back to the topic at hand.
Is the God of the Bible all-powerful?
I wonder if the responses I had received were researched and well-reasoned,
or a knee-jerk reaction to the cognitive dissonance the statements caused.
The verse in question is Genesis 2-2-3.
By the seventh day, God had finished the work that he was doing.
So on the seventh day, he rested from all of his work.
Then God blessed the seventh day and made it holy.
Because on it, he rested from all the work of creating that he had done.
The overwhelming response I received was to point out that God didn't need to rest.
But rather, the word rested was in reference to God ceasing his creative process.
In God and anatomy, Professor Francesca Safflatakapulu gives some more context to the verse in question.
As it is well-known, after six days of speaking the heavens and the earth into existence,
Yahweh is said to have rested from all the work that he had done on the seventh day.
Jewish and Christian theologians are so accustomed to imagining God as a deity unfettered by physical limitations
that the idea of divine rest tends to be reverently cast as a day of reflection and contemplation.
But the Bible itself offers a more pragmatic reason for God's day of rest.
He was running out of puff.
As the deity himself tells Moses in the book of Exodus,
In six days, Yahweh made the heavens and the earth and on the seventh day, he rested and caught his breath.
Wait what?
It will be a sign between me and the Israelites forever.
For in six days, the Lord made the heavens and the earth and on the seventh day, he rested and was refreshed.
Maybe Cameron Batuzzi would now argue that God didn't need refreshing,
but chose to be unrefreshed as an example to us?
Who knows?
I have asked him on Deep Drinks multiple times.
I really want to get Cameron from Capturing Christianity on my channel.
Yeah, so I tweet to him and I'm like,
Hey Cameron, I've sent you an email.
I would love to have you on Deep Drinks podcast to learn more about your faith and your journey.
Michael's response.
I can totally vouch for David.
We met in a dark alley once where he offered me candy.
Everything after that was a bit fuzzy, but the candy was excellent.
Cameron hasn't been on Deep Drinks yet, so thank you for that.
He should have thought I was joking.
He should know of me at this point.
It would be good to have him on.
In Robert Alters translation and commentary of the Hebrew Bible,
he chooses to translate the term he rested as catch their breath, stating,
catch their breath is represented in most translations as be refreshed.
It is cognate with nefesh, most probably in the sense of breath,
and it is related to the word Neshaf to breathe hard or pant.
The idea of catching one's breath is consonant with the representation in Job
and elsewhere in the Bible of the laborer panting from his work
and longing to draw a long breath of relief after labor.
It may feel unsettling to think of God catching his breath,
but in my opinion, this lines up with the Old Testament God.
The same God who made us breathing creatures in his image,
who gets angry, feels jealousy, gets depressed,
who worries, who feels hatred, feels happiness, who thinks about things.
This topic is not new.
The Christian leader, Marcian of Sinope,
argued that the God of the Old Testament could not be all-knowing or all-powerful.
He took this a step further and argued that the God that Jesus was praying to
could not be the God of the Old Testament.
For Marcian and his church, the God of the Old Testament was an evil deity
and had nothing to do with the teachings of Jesus.
You see this with Marcian, and he has this idea that, look, God's looking for Adam.
How does he not know where Adam is?
If he's all-knowing, he should know where Adam is.
And not only that, he should have known that Adam was going to eat from the fruit,
which means he's not all-knowing.
He can't be the God.
The idea that a Christian could reject the Old Testament God
might sound like a ridiculous idea now.
But is it really?
Marcian wrote a book called The Antitheses,
which means contrary statements.
He would take something we knew about the Old Testament God
and contrast that to the God of Jesus.
Marcian aimed to demonstrate that the God of the Old Testament
could not be the God of Jesus.
In the book Lost Christianities,
Professor Barty Ehrman states that some of the book
may well have consisted of direct and pointed antithetical statements
contrasting the two gods.
For example, the God of the Old Testament tells the people of Israel
to enter the city of Jericho and murder every man, woman, child,
and animal in the city.
But the God of Jesus tells his followers to love their enemies,
to pray for those who persecute them and to turn the other cheek.
Is this the same God?
When Elisha, the prophet of the Old Testament,
was being mocked by a group of young boys,
God allowed him to call out to she-bears to attack and maul them.
The God of Jesus says,
Let the little ones come to me.
Is this the same God?
The God of the Old Testament said,
Cursed is anyone who hangs on a tree.
But the God of Jesus ordered him,
the one who is blessed,
to be hanged on a tree.
Is this the same God?
In the spirit of this video, let me add one more.
But Jesus looked at them and said,
For mortals it is impossible,
but for God all things are possible.
Contrast that to,
The Lord was with the men of Judah.
They took possession of the hill country,
but they were unable to drive out the people of the plains,
because they had chariots fitted with iron.
Okay, maybe that's enough.
Isn't all powerful God even something Christians should want to defend?
If God is all powerful,
why is there so much suffering?
Before we come to talk about the book,
just help us with this tragedy in Japan.
Which of these is true?
Either God is all powerful,
but he doesn't care about the people of Japan,
and therefore they're suffering.
Or he does care about the people of Japan,
but he's not all powerful.
Which one is it?
I begin with the belief
that God, when we shed a tear,
God sheds a tear.
So I begin with a divine being
who is profoundly empathetic,
compassionate, and stands in solidarity with us.
Secondly, the dominant story of the scriptures
is about restoration.
It's about renewal.
It's about rebirth.
It's about a God who insists
in the midst of this chaos
the last word hasn't been spoken.
And so people have faith
of clung to this promise and this hope
that God will essentially fix this place.
And it's a beautiful hope.
I think we ought to keep it front and center,
especially right now.
So which of those is true?
I think that this is a paradox
at the heart of the divine
and some paradoxes are best left
exactly as they are.
At a certain point,
I wonder how far apologetics will go
to defend their worldview.
An all-powerful God taking seven days
to create the earth feels like an oxymoron.
If that God was laying the foundation
for the Sabbath, why not just explain the Sabbath?
If that God can command that the Israelites
are to keep the Sabbath unto death,
why not command the extinction of slavery?
These questions seem banal.
When an ulterior explanation might be that
God didn't make the world in seven days
but the Hebrews adopted the seven-day week
from the Babylonians, who likely
adopted it from the Sumerians.
God feels hate, anger, jealousy,
love, happiness and sorrow
because the authors of the Bible felt those things.
God needs rest because we need rest.
We were not made
in God's image, but God
was made in ours.
If you made it this far, I hope you enjoyed the video.
Make sure to share this
with your fundamentalist auntie
and you can support this channel by becoming a member
or checking out our Patreon.
Thank you.
