Welcome to Deep Drinks Podcast. Today's guest is a beacon of skepticism and reason,
a compelling figure in the often heated intersection of science,
faith and apologetics, known for his popular YouTube channel and his deep dives into evolution
slash creation debate. I'll give you the insightful, the amazing, apologia.
Welcome, Paul and Jaya to Deep Drinks Podcast. How you doing?
Thank you. I'm doing all right. I do not consider myself a beacon. I consider myself a cautionary tail.
That's awesome. It's funny because I think you are a beacon. We'll get into it. We'll get into it.
But before we jump into it, what do we drink tonight, Paul?
All right. So we are going to, as I enjoy doing, I mix drinks because I didn't start drinking until
late in life and my liver's fresh and whatever. It's all good. But so I have selected for us
Hornido's black tequila. This is the one I got to be similar. Yeah. To be followed by,
I think it's the same thing, but, and then we'll be followed by rum and coke,
which is my drink of choice in general. So I didn't, I didn't pre-prepare. I wanted to make
sure everyone knows that this is real and not just water or something. Well, well, I need to
preface this because so I cannot get this in Australia. The only place I could find this
in Australia was on eBay and the seal was a little funny. Oh, no. This, this is like
really, can you hear that? I can hear that. But you know what? Oh, it's just, well, I mean,
it's just disconnected. Some tequila is sent, it has worms inside sometimes. So, you know, tequila,
I'm not worried about germs per se, if it, you know, who knows what they do.
Yeah, no, the alcohol will kill it. I just can't put much in there.
Riffied. It's a little sus. But anyway, here I'm pouring mine as well. I've never had black
barrel tequila. I didn't, I didn't give you a pre-warning about, I haven't had my tequila
with my proper ritual since I moved to Nova Scotia. So I actually decided for tonight,
because this is such a special occasion that I wanted to do the full ritual, which is you start
with salt. Ah, yep. And then you do tequila and then you suck on a lime for a second.
Yeah. Yeah, I know that, I know that one. I don't have that one.
But, but I, but just straight to tequila, if that's what you got, no worries.
I'm gonna put salt on my hand.
I'm assuming you don't have the other ingredients handy because it's not a cooking show.
I could go get them, but I think I'll just...
No, I think we're gonna, so I'm gonna do the salt.
Yeah.
Now we do the shot.
Oh, that's good.
Isn't that good?
Oh, that's really good.
That's my favorite go-to tequila. You can get, you can get tequila that's hundreds of dollars,
of course, and that's delicious as well. But this is my favorite of the patez cream.
Like the go-to, yeah.
Yeah.
There's, I recently had a Mexican themed party, which for some reason I seem to do,
there's not Mexican theme. We just, it was just tequila and tacos,
but that seems to be what I do every year. And everyone brought me tequila.
I have so much tequila in this house. And someone brought me like a $250 bottle of tequila.
I haven't opened it yet. And they said, not shotting. This is sipping tequila.
I was like, all right, sipping tequila. I didn't know you'd do that, but like, okay, cool.
So, yeah, we got, and with deep drinks, you know, we have so many drinks, you can make
a million different cocktails with the, like the, we got a whole cupboard just full of just
different liquors, like just really abstract ones, like you come with vodka or what you just,
whatever, just because every guest wants something different.
And a lot of them choose alcoholics. So.
Well, and Shannon, who you've had on your channel before,
is an excellent mixer of drinks. And that's opened my horizons greatly,
but I managed to, for the rum, I borrowed some of her
raging crow spiced apple because the, normally the rums I drink are too pedestrian for her liking.
So special for Shannon. I have some slightly better rum tonight.
So I don't know, I'll pour myself a rum as I tell the story. So when Shannon came on,
it was so funny because we had this specific, we had this specific rum that she liked and we
are finding stuff. And then when we ended up starting the show, she didn't have it.
And she's like, oh no, and she, and she had to drink your rum.
And she was complaining about it. And I was like, this is actually perfect because
Shannon drinks rum. That's just the, like, instead of, because I normally put the bottle
of the brain, I was like, no, I'm just going to have a bottle. It just says rum. That's what
Shannon drinks. And it ended up being one of the first episodes, the last episodes we did before
we went to the live format. So Shannon will always have a special place in my deep drinks heart,
because yeah, it was really nice for her to come on when I was that small.
So first of all, this is the, as I pour myself this drink, as I've already said,
this is a question that I normally say for the end of the episode.
Oh, I'm not boring. We're just done now. Okay. All right. I get you.
I'm going to throw it straight at you at this moment. So you've said that Ken Ham made you an atheist.
I, it's possible. I don't know if you could give it, for me, you could say the same thing,
but it's, you could, someone could make the case that he'd made me an atheist as well,
because this is one question on in the Bill Nye versus Ken Ham debate that was asked right at
the end has become a staple on the deep drinks platform. That when he answered it, I was just
flawed as a Christian, I was watching this and I just could not believe how he answered this
question. And it's a question that I would like to ask you in regard, you've got hundreds of videos,
you've got an amazing channel, you've done a lot of research, you know your stuff.
So in regards to the Young Earth Creationism debate, the type of people I guess you used to
believe in. Correct. Yep. The question is, what if anything would change your mind?
What if anything would change my mind in terms of Christianity would be different than Young
Earth Creationism? Young Earth Creationism, I think I would have to give the same answer that
Bill Nye gave. And Bill Nye gave the answer like the Precambian, Cambrian rabbit, right? Like the,
basically the, we're finding, we're finding later developed species or, you know, our human below
the KT boundary, for example, that kind of thing, right? That would definitely be enough to shake my
scientific views on the diversity of life, for sure. Christianity, I'm not even sure what,
so Christianity actually is an easier, Christianity would be, I would need some kind of, probably
some kind of personal experience, which would be not good enough evidence for anyone else,
but for me, because that, no matter what personal experience God could, could engage with with me,
that wouldn't be good enough for anyone else. But, you know, and that would need to be for me
something externally verified, whatever experience this was of God, I would need to be able to verify
it, that it wasn't just me hallucinating, so it would need to be giving me new information that I
didn't have access to, for example. And, or if it was visual and auditory that they're, that my phone
could have also recorded it at the same time, or, you know, something, something along those lines,
because for me at this point, I don't see how testimony can ever rise the level
of being more probable than merely being mistaken and or lying, right? So, like yet another scroll
or more confirmation from history, for me probably doesn't cut it if it's still in that realm of just
testimony. So, I guess that's, are those reasonable answers to the question?
Yeah, I think so. I'm actually, you know, I want to get into your story a little bit,
but I was wondering if I can just push back quickly a little bit on that.
I find when it comes to, so I don't know, we'll get into this, but I don't know what kind of
relationship you had with Jesus. I don't know. I was talking to Jesus eight times a day,
if I lost my, if I lost my contact lens before I'm, before I bent down to the ground, I'm already
talking to Jesus about it. If I'm lost somewhere, Jesus, that's, I'm talking to Jesus. If I'm in
an exam and the questions are getting hard, I'm talking to Jesus, like this was a, this was a
personal assistant almost type of situation with Jesus, where, no, all through my whole time being
a Christian, he was the, definitely the Jesus is the co-pilot of my life. Absolutely. Anyway,
I interrupted you and then let's carry on. So, what I was gonna, well, okay, so for me, I remember,
I was, I was brought up a Christian when I was younger. I ended up becoming like getting involved
in church and then kind of walking away when I moved out with my father to be in Queensland.
And, and anyway, I ended up going to the youth group having a really powerful
quote unquote spiritual experience and I'm crying, you know, as a 16 year old in front of everyone,
I had people prophesy of me, all that kind of stuff. And I remember going to, it was a Pentecostal
church. I remember going to a youth group three weeks after. And I saw one of my friends there,
like, pass out in worship, like fall over, someone catch this on. I saw another person,
my friend, ended up being one of my groomsmen, thrashing around on the floor after being baptized
in a kind of shaking seizure-like state that his arms were now like he was not being crucified on
the cross. And he was for eight ages, like I'm talking in the hours. And like we picked him,
I had to pick him up and carrying him inside. And we're kind of laughing at him and like we're
praying at the same time. And it was, you know, and I remember looking around at the room full of,
we had to skip dinner because we pulled out all the mattresses and it felt like a revival. And
everyone was like, pulled out all the mattresses and put them on the ground. We're praying for each
other. And the crew were like, what, no one's had coming for dinner. And we're just all in this
room praying. And I remember looking around and seeing these, these things happen and saying,
I can never deny this. I can never deny these experiences. Like, no matter what happens in
my life, I can, what I'm seeing right now, I can never deny. Now, I don't deny that they happened.
Right. I just denied the conclusion. So I wonder, like, you said, you mentioned that,
like, you'd have to have some sort of personal experience. What if,
can that ever be good enough? Because what if, like, like you said, that there's like,
how would you, how could you verify such a thing that, that would sufficiently,
you know, warrant a belief? Like, how could you do that?
Well, I'm assuming that an all powerful God knows the answer to that question, even if I don't.
Um, I do have in my head, I have, for example, what, what I mentioned before was
if it's vision, if there's any sensory perception of all like audio or vision or visual,
then I want my, I need my phone, I need to be able to pick up my phone and for that to have
recorded it or for other people in the room to be able to also have seen it. Like, for example,
the apostle Paul, according to Acts, depending on what chapter you read, you know, the people
with him couldn't see what he saw or hear what he heard, right? Like, that's indicative of a very
internal vision experience. But also, you know, I've talked about how I would love to, oh, you
know, Jesus comes to me and he tells me the solution to one of the, you know, 10 great
unsolved math problems, something that I know that I do not have the skill to solve.
Right. But oh, but God, Jesus, now that's maybe on, you know, that's, that's, people say that that's
kind of an extreme example, you know, all of a sudden I'm, I'm altering human history with,
which is my personal interaction. That's okay. I'm sure Jesus can give me personal information
that I don't currently have that I could then go corroborate. You know, like Jesus would be able to,
in some way, give me some love. But again, I think that would be not a good reason for anyone
besides myself to believe that there were just, I just have to think that the omnipotent God can
solve that problem, even if you and I can't know what that would be. Though I do talk to presuppositionalists,
a lot of whom were creationists. And, you know, they talk about the certainty which they have,
right? They are, they are 100% certain. Oh, dog, dog issues.
It's okay. We're going to be equal as well, like I mentioned to you before. I know, I know that.
So, of course, you know, we, if we are 100, if it's possible to be 100% certain about something
non-divine, then you actually can't be sure that there's any, what would that gap be that you could,
what would be the difference between this 100 thing I'm 100% sure of, just on a naturalistic
basis versus the 100% certainty that God gave me. That is a, I think, a problem with the whole
presuppositionalist position. So, it's an excellent question. I'm just, when people ask me that,
what would change my mind, I do want to throw out there that, you know, this is kind of the best
I got. And, but also leaving open the fact that if an omnipotent omniscient God wanted me to know
who he was, that he would have this answer to this problem, even if I don't. So, but no, you're
absolutely right. Like there's, it's a huge problem for whatever this experience would be.
We're talking about the experiences you saw. My baptism was my greatest day of my life. I just
felt the love of Jesus just, you know, flowing over me like that's the closest I've ever felt
with Jesus was that baptism day. Wow. But I just, I think I now look at it and I miss attributed
those feelings, right? The feelings that I had where there was a whole community of people in
front of me who were looking at me and like affirming my spiritual steps and affirming my
spiritual work. Like it's natural that when a whole community is around you and it's your day,
your, so yeah, that's going to be a spiritual high. Like that just makes sense. And it's the,
it's the particular songs are chosen that I chose that are like the ones that get,
that stir up my emotions like that. So I now see as I think as you probably do,
correct me if I'm wrong, but that we were just misattributing those emotions and those feelings
to something supernatural when that needn't necessarily be the case.
Do you agree with that?
Well, 100%. And I've said this, I said this a few times that even now when I read parts of the
Bible, I'll get that warm feeling that like, whoa, I'm so inspired or other parts, not so much. I've
learned a lot about slavery and so do needle, I should, but some parts like I think one, John, you
know, it got his light and then there's no darkness. Like, whoa, I can feel with this feeling.
But the same thing happened to me when I was in Bali poolside drunk. My wife was, you know,
techno going off and I had my headphones in and I was listening to the Bhagavad Gita just chilling
out. And I listened to it because it Bali's a Hindu island and chapter six came around on the
Bhagavad Gita and it was like, I am the fire and I am the wood and the fire that consumes it. I am
the beginning, I am the end and all this stuff. And I was like, whoa. And like, you know, like,
I'm like, this is incredible stuff. It's just, you know, because it's not for me because it's
not a spiritual, a spiritual religious context. I go, it's very easy to go. There must be something
to this, but just look at the stuff people are going on about with Taylor Swift. Like people
are like, this was the most important moment of my life. Like I had like people to talking about
Taylor Swift concert, like it's a spiritual experience. And you know, my wife has said
before that when she goes to musicals, she has the exact same feelings she used to have when she
went to church. She's obsessed with musicals. So well, I was a worship leader for decades.
And we literally would plan. I don't know why it didn't connect for me while I was doing this.
We would plan our sets, you know, with tempo and with all those momentum of it all in mind.
Like I was orchestrating those feelings for the congregation. Yeah. But two and two together
that like, well, that was that done for me when I was a youth kid, like, yeah. And we used to take
the kids out and like, especially youth functions, we would take them and they'd be separated from
their parents, which when you're a teenager is a big thing. You're away from your, some of those
safety nets and or the relief that feels from being away from that, we are giving them junk food,
we're keeping them up way later than they normally do. And we're, and we've deliberately
we're, we put up this generic message of, do you feel like you don't fit in? Like what teenager
feels like they fit in? Of course you don't feel like you're fit in. Like it's all just, I see it
now. What I was doing was letting these situations. So I stomped on your point there. I'm sorry.
Don't know. It's stomp away. This is, we like, hey, and if I apologize if I stop on one of your
points, especially as the alcohol starts to affect it, it gets harder and harder to be your showman.
But stomp away, please. But the, the, what I was saying is you almost,
I knew this was happening. Like I used to hear, and I think I used to even say that
the preacher's job is to get the audience to walk at the, to the end of the diving board
and then jump off into the Holy Spirit. That their job is, and I used to do this thing. I have
settled it a million times where I'd say, you know, I do an altar call and I would count down
or I count up and I'd say, oh, I'm three. I want you to raise your hand. So I say, one, God loves
you. You know, if you feel God pounding in your heart, that's the Holy Spirit calling you. And
two, this is the most important day of your life. Don't go away from missing this. And then I go,
three, raise your hand and he's people raise their hand because I'm building suspense. I'm,
I'm talking about all their physiological feelings that they may be feeling when they're
bowing their heads. And, and it's, I knew it was manipulative, but I thought it was good.
Do you know what I mean? It's like, I thought it was encouraging someone to get past their
worldly glasses, their worldly and open their spirit up. And I've heard that. I wasn't in the
band. I'm a bit tone deaf and not very talented. But I heard people who go and, you know, worship
retreats and stuff. And I would say like, this cord is, you know, a minor chord. So it does this
and it elicits this emotion. And like you would learn about, and everyone was writing notes like,
this is amazing. This is great. So right, we'll worship some with these notes and these notes,
and it will give this kind of emotion. And yeah, no one thought anything of it.
Yeah, exactly. Yeah, I don't, I suppose they just figured that this is all in the service of,
you know, that God made God created chords and God created scales and disharmony and things like
that. So of course, you know, these are tools that he wants us to use. But yeah, we should have
been able to affirm that. So can you tell a little bit, talk a little bit about growing up a Christian?
Were you a Christian throughout your whole life? Like were you brought up in the faith or were
did you have a spiritual experience? Like, what kind of Christian were you?
So I grew up as a, in a, as a Mennonite, I don't know if you've heard that phrase before with that.
I've heard you say the term and I've known. Right. So I don't know if you are you familiar
with the phrase Amish? Yes, yes. So Mennonites are like the Amish, but 50 years ahead.
So okay, whatever, whatever technology, and it's a sliding scale. I've laughed because I've now
old enough to watch this scale slide for both those communities slide, grow slowly forward.
The Amish want to be 80 years behind and the Mennonites want to be 50 years behind.
But so I was, you know, if you say, or if anyone saw the movie Witness, like, so that
wasn't my day-to-day, but it was my parent's day-to-day. I was one generation off the actual
colony, but it was still Mennonite heritage. So what that is, is it's very evangelical
in terms of, well, I should say very conservative. The, the, it's
separation of the world is super important for Mennonites. So you're, you're, you're, you can
probably tell that, like the whole, a huge thing is almost what the Old Testament Jews were doing,
like, because we are so separate that everyone can tell the word, obviously different.
It, when I was a kid, you know, we spoke, there was low German in the, in the worship service. I was
just a few years past there being like, women sat on one side, men sat on the other side.
Oh, the, just so right, right from, just from birth, this is part of my life, you know, the
religion is, is saturated into, into all of it. So I was that kind of Christian. When I got into
high school, I got in, I had made friends with some more progressive type people. Progressive,
I laugh only because they, they're like still staunchly, staunchly conservative, but compared
to what I would do. But I got into a Bible quizzing, which was a like Bible memorization
competition style thing. And this was for a competitive young Paul. This was, this was
perfect. So we literally, we would memorize multiple books of the Bible every year and have
travel around both the province and the country and internationally to literally compete with
other teenagers who, oh my God, looks at the Bible. And I earned enough, I earned my way into
Bible college. Like I had a little full right scholarships into Bible college that I won
in my Bible quizzing days. So this is the type of Christian I was. I spent my summers,
you know, at Bible camps and you know, all those kinds of things. So it was 24 seven,
12 months a year, full tilt all the way Christian. As far as I was concerned,
competitively. So I bore that phrase from Shannon, but as competitive as it gets,
competitive Christian. So, and then went to Bible college, didn't end up going into full-time
ministry. That was a big struggle between me and God. Does he want me to do other things? I felt
like God was calling me to do lay ministry. So I ended up doing, I was, as I mentioned, I led
Bible quizzing. I started Bible quizzing programs around North America. I was a worship leader,
as I said, a youth leader, all those kind of things while having a career. That was one of the
weird compromises me and God made. It's funny how God, you know, in the end, ultimately sort of
agrees with what we want. But anyway, so, and that took me all the way up till I was in my early 40s.
I was, but as a part of all the style of Christian that I was, top-down authority was incredibly
important. You know, man's the head of the home. Kids are just observing to the parents.
The pastor, you know, is in charge of us. And, you know, other people are in charge of the pastor
that is just top-down is the way you accept things. And so I was trained that that's how you just
learn things top-down. And so when I was told things like dinosaurs were on the ark 4,000 years
ago, I'm like, all right, that's the way that was then. And you don't look any further, no need to
look any further. Everyone in my community affirms this is true. Why would I go look to the heathens
or go look to the other lesser Christians? Because of course, the one true mark of being a Christian
is that you don't consider other denominations to be Christians. Yeah, of course, yeah. That's the
only consistent part of it. But I still sorry to bother you. I don't know where I was going.
No, no, well, I still can't accept that. Like, I know this, this is like a prejudice, but I still
is a deep thing. I still can't emotionally accept that Catholics are Christians, even though they're
the big denominations of it was so pushed into me that Catholicism is has nothing to do with
Christianity. It's a religion or nothing to do with the relationship with God. It's a religion.
It's man made. It's about wealth. And, and it's just, yeah, I just I can't see it as like a,
I don't know. It's about it's definitely a bias. For sure. Oh, yeah. From my
denomination, Catholic might as well has been Jehovah's Witness or Mormon or something like
something like that. Because yeah, it was there might be individual Catholics who were fine if
they were lucky just on some fluke. But as a denominator, no, that's not Christian. I'm with
you. Yeah, I was a joke that I'm a Protestant atheist. Yeah, yeah, that's the same. So
did the Mennonites so that's really interesting. I didn't realize, did you have these like, you
know, you know, this this baptism and stuff was that in the Mennonite church? Did you have
spiritual experiences? Do they speak in tongues? Like, what do they have healings like prosperity
gospel? Like where? What? So I didn't you your denomination, I wouldn't have considered to be
Christian. Neither of yours. Anyone who was flailing around on the floor and speaking in tongues,
that was a time past and that wasn't for modern day and that you're just making stuff up. You
probably agree with that now. But no, so Mennonites came out of what was called an Anabaptist tradition,
which is actually slightly before Martin Luther, in fact, where the big separation was they believed
very strongly in infant, not against infant baptism, that it had to be believers baptism.
And that was actually so baptism was hugely important, because that was literally the schism
that that caused them to separate in the first place was just this notion they felt very strongly
that you had to believe before you could be baptized. So but then the other big tenant that
came out of that was non violence, passivity. And so they actually ended up having to go
region to region in Europe, because they refused to become involved in the world wars at the time,
they refused to accept being drafted and those kind of things. And so they ended up being
like kind of draft dodgers going around and around and they were very good at because they
were very good at farming and so kind of settling new place to place they became
kind of pariahs, because they were seemingly legitimately avoiding getting involved in conflict,
but also kind of becoming rich everywhere they went, because they were quite good at the craft
of farming. So that's part of my heritage, but no, the so but no, nothing showy, like so one of the
things like we had we had rules about how many buttons could be on your jacket, right? And you
you look at the images, anyone's familiar with Mennonites, it's always modesty is the ultimate
virtue. And so anything that would draw attention to yourself, like prophesying or speaking in
tongues and that kind of thing, that would have been very frowned upon because it was incredibly
community based, like we raised barns together. So we were, we're, we're spiritual together,
we're not spiritual one at a time, if that makes sense.
Atop the Mennonite, is this actually? Yep. Yep. Whoa.
So I was a, I was one generation, I was one generation out of this, but this was my parents'
experience. Whoa, okay. So my parents were very radical and they became teachers. They went to,
they moved to the city and became, and that was a, that was a big deal. That was a,
but we still went to Mennonite churches and things like that.
Wow. Okay. Wow. So do they, you know, are they, do they remain Mennonites or?
So you just asked me out front if there's anything I don't want to talk about. I don't
necessarily want to drag my family into. Can we talk about every one of your family members by name?
Yeah. So, so out of respect for my family, I won't, I won't speak on behalf of any of them,
but I, but I will say that most of my family remain as devoutly Christian as before, my experience,
and that that has been, that was a very difficult thing, of course, for everyone,
because from their perspective, the Paul whom they know and love is now, my soul is in jeopardy,
right? My soul is, they now look at a potential future where they are in heaven and I am not there,
and that rightfully so is devastating. I actually feel like any Christian who really believes it
should be equally heartbroken every time, like some believer isn't going, someone
apostatizes, like that should be terrible, terrible news. And it does tell me a little bit about some
of the Christians who are like, whatever, you're, you, you chose this, so you're, you're just going to
hell. That actually tells me a little bit about where their spiritual life is at. I'm, I'm judging
them again with my old, I need to get one of those Jesus hats so I can temporarily tell people what
I'm wearing. Yeah, but so as you can imagine for my family and friends, I mean, everyone in my
circle was a Christian. I didn't, all my, all my friends, all my associates, all my business
relationships, just that was the circle I was in. So, so it was, it was a difficult situation. And
one of those ones where people are like, well, you just, you know, it was very convenient for you to
go and you just wanted to send or whatever. It was like, no, I, this was a, I paid a very heavy
price when I walked away. I just do many, like that's not a unique story in any stretch. So the, we,
more people, I think, leave the faith with tears than with joy. Let me just go that way.
Yeah. It's, for me, leaving the faith was one of the most heartbreaking, but exciting times in my,
my life. It was like entering an alien world where I kind of knew what everything was, but I
didn't at the same time when I was like, you know, like I did, when I was driving and I was anxious,
I couldn't pray anymore. Like it didn't, like it didn't work to like, really leave my anxiety.
When I was wondering what to do, I couldn't, I couldn't ask God or the guidance of the church.
You know, I, I felt very lost, but then at the same time I was like, well, but wait, this fossil
is actually 65 million years old. Like, like, you know, like it's, you know, we have Australia Zoo
down the road. Um, Steve Owens, um, few friends work there. And, um, the only thing I like to do
when we go there, we see the crock show and stuff, but, but I go to the fossil room and I just like
buy fossils because they're like 30 bucks and they're like, you know, 25 million years old. And you're
like, what? Like, how am I buying this for like 30 bucks? Like it's, it's, and just think that's
actually that old. Like it's just, yeah, it was, I still can't wrap my hand around it. That's incredible.
So, and also I did want to mention too, um, you talk about, you have talked to, I've heard you
bring up your, um, not bring up, but be questioned about your family before. And you're always,
I should have remembered that you always say, like, I don't want to put my family,
but one thing I will say is you're always super respectful when you talk about people's belief
systems and, um, your family's belief systems and things like that. You're always, uh, that's
one thing that I have always admired about you is you don't, you're very level headed and very
kind of respectful in the way you approach things. And, um, I've always respected that.
We, um, you spoke briefly there and I just would say like a side effect of my channel,
I didn't intend it this way. Was it, it kind of helped actually people be a soft place to land?
I know other places were a soft place to land for me, but I get a lot of people who write me
like I just recently left the faith or I fell apart and whatever. And I didn't know how to,
I didn't know what words to use to express the new thoughts and feelings I was having.
And they thanked me on my channel for like helping them figure out
just how to wait to even word what they were saying. And that becomes its own soft place to
land because we don't even know how to express. We're so indoctrinated with all these things,
how to express these things. So, uh, it's definitely soft place to land. Super important
thing. And it's always, I always feel incredibly grateful if anyone messages me and says that I
was a small part of that. And I'm sure your chat, I'm sure you get similar messages.
I do. I've had a few, I've actually spoken to a few people and, um, I always make it very clear
from the outset that I don't care if they remain religious, if they become religious after talking
to me. I'm not, I'm not here, he's trying to evangelize atheism or anything like that, even,
you know, consider myself a non-theist and atheist, but, um, but I want to help relieve some of that
that, um, that mental anguish. Cause I know what it's like to have just these, you know,
fears of hell or whatever it is, or that cognitive distance that you go through
and just helping people find a way is really rewarding, I think, um, for sure. And I will say,
um, Paul, you, you play a huge role, uh, in, in my deconstruction, um, a big role, I'd say,
cause one of the videos you, well, I used to watch your channel all the time. I loved it.
And I still do watch it occasionally, but hold you for sure. That sounded, I used to watch it all the
time. I just, I had to. That's fair. No. Cause I, I, I too, I, I watch, I watch, watch less content
that I agree with. That's a, that's a good choice. The ultimate that you one should end up making later
on is that you should skew what you consume to the, to the attitudes you disagree with more than
probably the ones you agree with. Because yeah, the social media algorithms are so want to shove
down our throats, what we agree with, that you kind of have to deliberately seek out the others.
Anyway, carry on. Yeah, I just wanted to, um, like I have faith in you. Like I, I used, what I'm
saying is I used to binge it and, um, yeah, yeah. But one of the, you're not hurting my feelings. I
want Christians. I don't care. I don't care if atheists watch my channel, frankly. Yeah. I would,
if I could choose my audience, it would be a hundred percent Christians or, or not 80% Christians
and 20% of the people who are like just believing. Anyway, carry on. Well, um, you know, there was,
there was an episode that you did that really like just, just, we'll get into this in the future,
we'll get into this in the future, but there's an episode that you did that really was like a nail in
the coffin for me. There's a few nails in the coffin I had when deconstructing parts of my faith,
you know, prayer, healing, um, the Bible's an errant scene. And when I was like,
you are young, I've creationism. And then within them, there was a bunch of nails and you hit like
there was a big moment for me in one of your episodes. And we'll talk about that in the future,
but I do a little bit, but I just want to quickly, not quickly, but I would like to
talk a little bit about how you went from being a Mennonite Christian to deconstructing. How did
that happen? So around 2015, I was at a interesting spot in my career where my work was a little bit
more sporadic. It was very intense for short bursts of time and then off for short bursts of time.
And one of the things I was doing at the time was I owned a comic book company named Red Five
Comics. And I was writing a graphic novel called Neozoic, um, and it involved dinosaurs. And of
course, here I am, I'm aware that my view on dinosaurs is different than most of the rest
of the world's used dinosaurs. The series was to be sold to a general public, not to a Christian
public. So I'm like, I should probably look up some details about what the so-called secular
scientists think that dinosaurs are. Like, let me at least nod my head to the people who are
stupid enough to believe that they're old, right? And so I'm looking up, well, when did dinosaurs
go extinct and things like that? And as I'm reading it, it's like, and I've loved dinosaurs all my
life. I live in Western now, Western Canada, like it's dinosaur central. I just didn't buy the
narrative. But here I am, I'm like, hey, this kind of weirdly makes sense. Like it's not as stupid on
the surface as my pastors and teachers, you know, made it, made it seem like I was, that I was going
to be laughing at this as I read. So that just put this pebble in my shoe as it were. It's like, well,
how does this make sense? It was not supposed to. I set that aside. And then I get to this point
where I had a bit of a lull with what was happening in my job mode. You know what I'm going to do?
I'm going to go read the best creationist books that are out there, because I've always just
accepted this on authority. Fine. But let me just go so I can put this to bed and like laugh again
at these weird secularists. I'm going to, what's the best one? Oh, the best one is Ken Ham. Let
me order up all the Ken Ham books and I'm going to read those and it will all be solved. And I'm
reading the Ken Ham books that come from Amazon and partway through the first one.
I literally, the book just fell to the floor as I'm like, these are the worst answers possible.
These are terrible. These are not good answers. I believe what Ken Ham believes,
but his justifications don't make any sense at all. And that's, and that prompted then,
okay, I better go, maybe I should go read what these secular people say. What do they have to say
about Christianity's on a jeopardy at this point? Like that's nothing. That's all. Young
Earth creationism, how old is the earth? And I start reading, you know, the best biology books
I can get and the best books about geology, like all the science stuff that I kind of didn't pay
much attention to when I was younger. And it's like, this all makes complete sense. And every
time I turn to Young Earth creationist thing, their answers seem credulous and strained and
seem to be not paying attention to the data. And that became this huge crisis for me. It's like,
well, if I'm wrong about that, because to me, now I'm, it gets the human chromosome to fusion and
endogenous retroviruses. It's like, well, this is just true. Like I just can't deny this anymore.
We evolved. So now what else? What else did I, except on faith that I shouldn't have?
And so I laugh that like Ken Ham didn't really make me an atheist. That was a hyperbolic title
for my very first video, deliberately hyperbolic. But what he did say in motion was this idea,
well, can I come to an idea neutrally? Can I come to it and not have a predetermined conclusion?
And then what can I build from scratch? And when I approached the New Testament that way,
or the Old Testament that way, or a lot of church history that way, man, a lot of it just,
I couldn't reconstruct it without having a preconceived notion that it was true the way I used to,
the way in Bible school. And then, then I start looking back at like all of my pastors and my
teachers and, and Bible school and all those professors. And I start talking to you and some
of them and I'd say, Oh yeah, yeah, we knew about those problems, but we just didn't want to bother
people. Like the congregation can't be bothered with knowing that, you know, that that woman caught
an adultery story wasn't really there. Or, you know, that we don't, that the books are anonymous and
that, you know, the Gospels names were added in round 180 AD, based on some dubious testimony,
like we just don't want to bother the congregation with those kind of details. Well, that's not
good enough. Right. So what, when I started to try and rebuild my faith, which was my goal,
I couldn't. And so then I entered this phase of, okay, I can't accept the Bible anymore.
I can't accept, you know, all the science stuff that I used to accept. But Jesus is still my
friend. Jesus is still my savior. Gee, I can still feel all the emotions. And I still,
I still got that sense with me. And so then I had a period of just wrestling with
the person who I thought was on the other end of the phone for months. Like tell me,
begging the Holy Spirit to tell me that this was all fine. Right. And then those answers just
never came. And then I start realizing, oh man, I've just had an invisible friend all this time
until he gained that final, final run on a treadmill to, you know, some Christian songs.
And it's like, okay, I'm letting this go. Like God is not responding back to me. So it was all the
phases. Intellectual first. But then I was willing to even, I was willing to not worry about the
intellectual part of God could just show me something else. And that also didn't happen. So
that was probably too long an answer. But that's sort of the
No, definitely not. Definitely not too long. And it's, it's so, it's so,
yeah, it's, it's just so reminiscent of like the deconstruction. I've talked to a lot of
people at the stage and the, the, the process of like peaking under that rug. And finally,
and like what I say is I say, I noticed I, I decided that it was intellectually distanced for
me to look at the evidence and assume it's one way or the other, like assume that I'm a Christian
and therefore this evidence is right or wrong and I need to look at it. And then I realized I had to
remove that presupposition. I need to look at the evidence for what it is and let that lead me to
whatever the true reality is for any given small thing in my brain. And I remember I almost like
I mentally took off my God helmet. My God had glasses and said, I'm going to look at this evidence
as an atheist, like as someone, I'm not going to assume anything. I'm going to try and remove
as much of me as possible. I'm not going to look at this as a male. I'm not going to look at this
as a, I'm just going to look at the data and just try and see what it says. And then when I did that,
I noticed a small little crack and I put my God helmet back on and, and I was like, that was
interesting. I saw a crack and then months later I'm standing in a canyon and that cracks huge.
I'm going, what the fuck? And then when I'm talking to people about this, I'm like, this is huge
canyon. And then they were very dishonest with like how they approached, they were, they weren't
willing to do that, that, that, that analysis, you know, and it was really, it was really,
they weren't willing to be honest. You know, they, they weren't willing to, to do that and
they're being very dishonest about it. And for me, that was, it was really confusing and hard
and everything like that. But the point is, and this was a bit rambly, sorry, the alcohol, but
the point is that once you peak, you can't just like pretend that you didn't see it.
Like you can't, this is something I talked to my neighbor who was a Christian at the time. I said,
I can't like, and their face just went blank and you could tell they just stopped listening or
they just shut off. But I was like, I can't not, I can't just, like I would either just pretend
like I didn't see it. It would just be a big fuss and I would just be acting as if I'm a Christian,
but I, but I actually didn't believe, but you can't just not see it. You can't just not, you know
what I mean? Like it's, I know exactly what you mean. Yeah. And you can't just Pascal wager yourself
to it. Let's just, God, God, any God who wants to save me knows if I'm pretending that it's true,
just for the sake of fire insurance. Like, you know, that's like, that's not gonna work.
So you mentioned, I heard you talking in another series about kangaroos hopping to Australia,
and, and yes, by the way, that was, that was the answer that, oh, look at you.
I really wanted that book that it wasn't available when I went there. So yeah,
I ordered online and I have to apologize to Ken Ham comes from the university only like
an hour down the road for me. Yeah. So I have to apologize about that,
but sending him to the North North, Northern Hemisphere. Yeah, the kangaroo, how did the
kangaroos get to Australia was literally the question I was on that made me drop the book.
I'm like, well, this doesn't make any sense at all. So the two proposals were either that they jumped
on some logs and those logs floated from India or so
to Australia and they just survived. That's fine. Can logs float for every year because it's in the
whole they would sunk in it. Yeah. Okay. No, so this was so so imagine this. So, so Noah lands an
Ararat, Middle East, Turkey lands in Turkey for those of you. And there's two kangaroos
and two koalas, like the marsupials that are currently now considered their native to Australia.
They're in Turkey, two of them, and they have to get from Turkey to Australia,
uh, leaving, leaving not a single bone behind. Like they, it's not like you could be multiple
generations. Like that's not off the table for, for someone like Ken Ham. Like it took them
generations to get down there, but none of them would have branched off and stayed where they
were and created populations. They all made a B line and the way they got from Turkey to Australia
was either jumping on these logs or the other proposal was perhaps that volcanic activity
literally was helping blast things into the air and perhaps that the pair of kangaroos
were caught up in some kind of volcanic blast and that like at least helped them get part of the
way if not over the water. And as a Christian who believed, who totally was on board for this,
I'm like, that's, that's not good. Like that's not the answer. And would they actually, they're
the real answers, right? These are what they say. Those were the, those were the answers. Yeah. And
it's like, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. That's, that's not acceptable. Um, and then, of course,
I didn't understand, I didn't know at the time biology way I do better now. I'm still terrible,
but, um, you know, like the marsupials are pretty much like that whole branch of marsupials is just
on Australia. But, but Ken Ham wouldn't consider them to be of the same kind. He doesn't think
there was a marsupial kind. So all of them, like the koalas, everything had to make that same
track. And the koalas that are can only eat, is it eucalyptus leaves or whatever it is? Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. I think that they have that specific diet that's only available down there. No,
it gets way worse. It gets way worse than that. And tell me, let me just, let me just tell you
about it. So, uh, when I was deconstructing, I forgot about this until just now. So, um,
excuse me, but this was my own, uh, I used to make out these little like arguments and I would
like try and like work things out and I would like make little, this is one of the things I did for
for the, this exact problem. And so I actually went into some textbooks and I'm not sure if you
can see that properly, but I found, you know, total plants in Australia, there are 21,086%
iron demig. Okay. There are 335 mammals that are only found in Australia, 852 reptiles only
found in Australia and 215 amphibians only found in Australia. Um, and the shortest distance,
so I worked out here that have to go, you know, 11,500 kilometers through Mount Ararat, um,
from Iran, Afghanistan, Pakistan, India, Bangladesh, Myanmar, Thailand, Malaysia,
Singapore, India, Indonesia before crossing a land bridge that has since disappeared.
Uh, and you know, there's no, you know, so this, this is like, I looked right into it,
but it gets way, way, way, way worse than that because like I said, I have friends who work
at the Australian zoo and the Australian wildlife hospital and they spend, you know,
our old roommate, she got a tattoo of a koala, one of the koalas that she took care of on her leg.
Um, very, worked very closely with koalas. They will choose, this is exact words, they will
choose to die in the tree rather than eat the specific eucalyptus variant that they want at
the time. They'll eat leaves further up, um, in the tree at the different times of the year and
different and how they're feeling. They'll eat younger leaves, older leaves. You can't even move
a koala from one part of Australia to like 200 kilometers away where they have a different
species of eucalyptus because they, they'll choose to die. They'll starve to death. They're,
they're actually smooth brain. They actually don't have any dimples in their brain and they're
really dumb, but they, but the way they survived is they, that all their energy goes to just chewing
on eucalyptus leaves. And so what my friends would do, um, Kennedy, what she would do, she
caught a leaf shopping and they would grab a koala in the wildlife hospital and they would
walk around and people would have to bring in these huge amounts of leaves, um, on branches
from different eucalyptus trees all over, you know, from everywhere and they would have to
go leaf shopping and they have to go, do you want these ones? They go, no, do you want these
ones? No. And then have to do that all because otherwise these koalas just die. They just die
because they're too sick to get to the trees they want and they won't, they won't eat anything they
don't want. And I remember looking at koalas and I'm like, koalas are a specific problem
because they're very slow. They can't, they can't survive anything else. And one of the answers
I saw was that maybe, this is what I said, maybe Noah crushed up eucalyptus leaves that,
for some reason, were in the Middle East and have since only become in Australia,
and crushed them up, got the oil out of the leaves and sprayed that on different like hay and stuff.
And that's what they were eating for the year that they're on the Ark. And I'm like, and I even
calculated, I think I even calculated how long it would take for a eucalyptus tree to grow after
the flood if a seed floated to Australia. And then it's just at this stage, you're getting to like
levels of like, reality denial, like you may as well start, you may as well become like getting
to QAnon and like flat earth and all that stuff because it's like at this stage, like everything
is conspiracy. Nothing is what it seems like it's just, yeah. Well, if you're a Christian, I get,
I look back and actually, some of the times I'm like, well, if I still believe that like a much
better argument is that God just knew this was a problem. And for those particular koalas,
made them non fussy. Right? Yeah. But then, but younger Christians don't like to do that because
they want the artifice of science. So they don't, they, they try to avoid God just did it as often
as possible. And, and probably to their own detriment, because then the other arguments
end up sounding silly. They probably like, I don't know if you saw the Noah movie with
Emma Watson. Yes. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Not how with Russell Crowe.
Yeah. Darren Aronofsky. Did he? Yes. Anyway, that film in the way they solved the animal problem
in that film was the Noah's wife had become inspired by this particular type of incense
that just knocked the animals out, just made them sleep. And that was such a much better answer
than anything I'd ever heard as a young Earth creationist. It's like, no, why wouldn't God,
but you wouldn't even need that. God could just literally put those, if you're, if he's flooded
in the world, he can just put animals to sleep for a year. But no, but no, Ken Kam can't do that.
What he has to do is, I don't know if you actually, you probably haven't been to the Ark.
There's, he's got, he's got diagrams of like, because the Ark specifically says there's one
window. The whole, the Bible says one window and it's way at the top. So how are we getting all
the poop and the water, like we're getting water in and the poop out. And there's this elaborate
pulley system, like a mousetrap game, like a rubric thing that the answers of Genesis team have
come up with that is plausible, right? Using that technology. But, but it is, if they would just
say God did it and embrace that, you wouldn't have to be quite as silly to people who are
thinking about it. But anyway, maybe, I think you could maybe say, I've heard, I've heard someone
say this, that maybe God created like, repopulated the world with animals after the Ark. And then
he like, but that, well, one doesn't say that. And two, what's the point of the Ark? And then three,
you know, so it's like, maybe it's like when God rested, like I had this, like, like Cameron
Batuzzi of captioning Christian and he had a freak out when I said, by the way, it all powerful God
shouldn't need to rest on the seventh day. He had a big freak out onto it about it. But, but, but
it's like, you know, he said he didn't need to rest. He chose to rest. And then another part of
the Bible says that he, that he was running out of puff that he was, that he was, he was exhausted.
Of course, actually me, but he was essentially exhausted. And I was like, well, I was like,
well, and I'll pass this conversation with Cameron now. And I'm like, what would Cameron argue here
that maybe, maybe that he was like, choosing to be exhausted, like he wasn't like actually
exhausted. He was choosing, because everyone was saying to me, God use that God stop from resting
as an example to us. So maybe you could argue, well, he wanted Noah to be obedient. That was the
point. So it didn't matter that he repopulated the world afterwards with all the animals in
their right spots. I don't know, maybe you could make it work like that, but still,
and that whole God did a problem. Actually, that's why it's so powerful. It doesn't actually help
me once we got off the, once we got off the art, because then you're, then you're positing that
God like literally like Star Trek style transported animals away or something, right?
Well, it should be cool. I mean, it should be cool. But like the fact that, as you say,
these koalas, let's just purpose, okay, they took a thousand years to get from Errat. They
didn't leave a single bone. They didn't leave a single ancestor. Like not if they all just were
in unison, marched down. I don't know. It's also, what's that? It's a, it's a type of argument,
argument technique. They weigh you. I don't know. One of the, one of the things that, that I noticed
though is, you know, Aboriginal Australians have been here. We've got Kay Penning from 40,000 years
ago. They're the oldest living culture in existence. And Ken Ham would know this. He has a
degree in environmental biology. Like he would know this, especially. I believe his degree
is in teaching actually, but. Oh, okay. Yeah. I think, well, when I looked it up, according to
Wikipedia, it could be, it could be. He may have, I think he has actually a master's. So one maybe
education and he would carry on. Yeah. But we will, either way, he, as an Australian, he'd know
that, you know, Australians, Aboriginals have been here for a long time. And we have, you know,
evidence of them. And they didn't notice a global flood. So it's a, yeah. So, or, you know,
all those other civilizations, Egypt, Egypt didn't notice. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, did you hear that?
Did you hear that? That was, that was my, yeah. I'm glad, I'm glad my Beagle can't hear your Beagle
because of the headphones. It'd be a duet. Yeah. So, so, so one of the things that, let's get to
apologetics, because one of the things I wanted to touch on was the nail on the coffin. I mentioned
this before for me. Okay. And you kind of pointed out that it was, it was the first episode you ever
made before you, but you didn't release it first, but it was first episode you ever made. And
let me tell you, this was, this was a game changer for me. So it's your episode on polystrate
fossils, upright fossils, polystrate trees. And so your, okay. So maybe, could you explain some
context of like, maybe what an upright fossil is or what a polystrate fossil is? So, and oddly
enough, I've now moved to a different part of Canada to Nova Scotia, where are these,
where these specific fossils that I made that video about are, and I haven't, still haven't,
because of the pandemic and stuff, I actually haven't gone to visit them yet. I, that's,
I need to do that. Janine, we can make a note. Maybe I just need to go on my own pilgrimage.
Anyway, so there are places in the fossil record where we find fossilized trees that are up and
down, that appear even in some places to perhaps cross, cross different types of strata type,
cross different types of what we might even consider to be an era break, you know, so
anyway, so yeah, it's these, and so someone like Ken Ham or Ken Hovind or the any younger
creationist can say, well, look, these fossils were buried upright, like it all happened so fast
that the trees were just buried in place, upright. And what we think are these layers that represent
different geological ages, obviously can't, because the same tree would have, you can't
bury the bottom part of the tree, and then like millions of years later, the next part of the
tree was buried, and then millions years later, the next part of trees were, and this is actually
quite a compelling argument to a layperson, right? That actually looks like, yeah, that tree is
totally vertical and going through what, what from a layperson's eyes also looks like different
types of different types of rock and different types of strata, and you listen to that story of
what they're proposing, like, yeah, that tree totally would rot before it got buried that way.
And they always represented as that scientists think that these things get buried slowly. That's,
that's the biggest probably young Earth creation lie, is that that's what these dumb scientists
think, that a dinosaur died, and it gets slowly covered a centimeter a year, until, you know,
until 100 years later, it's finally covered with debris. So that is, is that a, is that a
good enough explanation for your audience? Yeah, that is, and it's, that was a, it was a big,
it was a big question for me. I was like, how are these fossils, these trees growing up through
rock layers? And I just, I was, I was concerned about this, and I googled it, and sure enough,
your video pops up. And what, and this will get into the question, the next question I have for
you, which is preview, preview for the question I'm going to ask is, is what, what do you think,
if you think creationists are being honest or dishonest, and we'll get into that. But let me
just share this video. All right. Okay, here we go. I'm going to cringe, because this is like the
first video I ever made for this channel. So production quality, I'm sorry, everybody. Oh,
that's awesome. And do you want my favorite parties? I love that. I love when Kent Hovind always
talks about how muscly he's like, oh, Paul with big muscles in the cartoon. We've just got nothing
to work with that guy. We can talk about that separately if you want to. But yeah, we'll do
the fossil first. Okay, so this was this is just a little one minute clip from the video. I encourage
everyone to go watch the full thing. But let's just watch this. Ideas and not worry about who
presented them. I just hope we don't have a pattern of exaggeration here, John. But carry on with the
science. We got a lot of great stuff. We're going to share with you some really cool stuff about
polystrata fossils. Nice. Now I like to keep Google open to look up phrases that I don't know. So
let's get a tab open here with poly straight fossils. Hmm. All of these results seem to come from
creation related sources. Why are there no geology sources here? Oh, I see. Geologists use an entirely
different term for this phenomenon. They call it upright fossils, not poly straight. Now why would
creationists use a different name? It wouldn't be to make sure that believers see only conservative
Christian worldview answers when they search, would it? Search creation dot org brings the top
creation and apologetic websites together into one search engine while ignoring the thousands
of sites that push lies in half truths. If I understand this right, Eric, it is kind of like
Google that will only bring up a conservative Christian worldview answer on the topic. It's
exactly what it is. And it's amazing. I'm telling you, I use this all the time now. Oh, okay.
That bodes poorly. So that's the best clip I wanted to show. And the reason I wanted to show
that part is because they say it right there. They're being sneaky. And when I first saw this,
and I was like, why are they using a different word? And I was like, they have to know what
they're doing. They're being deceptive. And you go into it a bit more in the video and I'll share
it in the chat so people can bookmark it for later. Here's the link to the episode. But you
share later that this problem was solved in geology hundreds of years ago. They must know this.
So how? How, for fuck's sake, Paul, how can they not? They have to be being dishonest, right?
Please, let me out of my misery. Something has to be going on here. What's happening?
What are your thoughts on this? Well, this is a question I'm commonly asked, and I have just
grown less and less comfortable actually answering for people's motivations. I guess it's
how can I possibly, I can't look into their brain and know what their actual motivations are and know
what they're regurgitating in good faith. You're too kind. I knew this would happen.
But yeah, no, but I mean, but it is, but they are, but they are deliberately, you're right,
they're deliberately choosing to use, they're undeniably deliberately choosing to use phrases
that is unique to their version of the narrative versus what someone will get if they Google
something else. So this is probably a relatively new phenomena for them. You know, it started in
mid 90s once search engines started happening. Because yeah, and then more and more, like when
you watch even my latest creation today video, which was about their big, they went to the
Wisconsin Dells and they were, they were showing, you know, some of the geology that happened there
that they confirmed. So again, they were using, and I've not forgotten, but I had geologist
Stephen Baumann on one thing I've gotten better about on my channel is actually, hey, I'm bigger
channel now, I can actually invite like people who literally do this for a living to come on and
explain it instead of my fumbling. But, but no, this seems to be the common denominator is they
invent their own phrases for it. That is deliberate. Like that is if they wanted to go toe to toe,
if they wanted to go toe to toe with what the actual science says, they would use the same label
that you would get when you go to Google Scholar and search for the scientific papers on it. But
yeah, if you go to Google Scholar and type poly script fossils, you will get not a single rebuttal,
not a single one, because that's just they came up with that phrase on their own. So
that is, that is a tactic. I'm not going to talk about motive, but it is a tactic that I think is
dishonest. How's that? Yeah, that's, that's frustrating. Get Shannon in here. Shannon will
come and just and lay down the hammer. Shannon is she spares no correct. She suffers no fools.
Yeah, no. Yeah, that's it. That's it. That's it. I think she's been I've been glancing to try to
hear in there just to make sure everything's okay. And she's there. Everyone's arguing with
someone. It looks like I'm going to let my mods do with that. So I can focus on the conversation.
But Shannon's in there in the in the weeds. I'm thrown thrown from, you know, excellent,
thrown in wrestling. So is there so yeah. So for me, when I saw that, I was like this,
this appears very much deceptive to me. This appeared very much like I was being fooled.
What else are they telling me that I am that I'm, you know, that they I will I will say lying
about or like misleading me about like this is how I felt. Are there any other areas besides
like it's poly straight trees like the golden calf or the gold, you know, the gold example
or the other examples that you said in younger Christian, there's a myriad of them. There's
like the starlight problem, which is again, one of their phrases. There's
the magnetic magnetic reversal. Or they they they just put out, of course, that the magnetic fields
are getting weaker and weaker, that the moon is getting closer, like they have their own.
Pardon me, I don't have the phrases off top my head with this, but there's all of those,
they've come up with their own description. And many more, again, to to to encourage if you search
for it, if you look for that answer, you're going to only you're going to mostly find their material
versus something else. Because again, these are problems that scientists, if you if you,
I made the mistake of one mistake, I went to learn from actual scientists, and it would bring up
some of these issues, they would like laugh, it's like, who's who's bringing that up? That's
still like, again, this, we've known, we've known the answer to that for 100 years, or they love,
they really love when scientists still call something a problem like the just the starlight
problem. They've known the answer to the problem for hundreds of years, but they still that's the
way they describe, they use the word problem in the name of it. Yeah, just because at one point,
it was a thing to be solved. And so they they point they'll show up through a paper, it's
still a problem. See, they still call it that. So there's lots, lots of examples. And you can go
to my channel, look at the creation playlists, and almost every time there's something like that,
that they hinge it on. My, my uncle, is Uncle Paul, his as well. But he, he's a theorist, I would say,
in a broad sense, he will say something like, you know, I believe in God, some days and other
guys, but he's very into Eastern, you know, Hinduism, and, oh, and he's very, very smart guy. He's
got a few science degrees, and he's really into, into use yoga and stuff like that. And he just
didn't believe me that there are people that didn't accept evolution. Like he thought he was like,
well, like, no, there's no one like, he's like, Oh, you're talking about like, like, you know,
flat earth people. I mean, no, no, no, no, like, not like, like the vast majority, like, what,
there was a stage in America where it was like, over 50% or something correct me from wrong.
It was, even as when I, yeah, in my lifetime, it's been as high as 66% of America felt that
evolution was, was wrong. I believe it is down to below 50% now that more than, so more than 50%
except evolution now, but it's not by much, like much more than that. So yeah, or when it's weird,
they weirdly, they phrase it oddly that it may encompass actually more, I don't love the polling
question, because it says like, are there problems with the evolutionary theory or something? And so
you can kind of broadly sign on that you might have problems with it, even if you think it's
generally true. All that said, that's a caveat you didn't need to hear. It's still bad. It's
still bad. There's still swaths of America that I didn't come from no monkey. And, you know,
that's what they think. So yeah. Yeah, right. So I haven't been over to either country,
unfortunately, or those countries. But I want to get over there soon. But
so one of the things someone asked me recently, they said, I thought you're an atheist podcast.
I'm like, it's not an atheist podcast. This is an atheist podcast. I'm an atheist, but
I'll talk to Christians. I've had inspiring philosophy on a few times, you know, I'll talk to
everyone, you know, I don't care, like deep conversations over deep drinks. That's what it is.
Primarily my guests are atheists, though. But, but, but my point is I try to, I try to be fair.
I have a spicy Dave Twitter account where I go after Frank Turrick for his BS. And then there are
other, you know, then there's the deep drinks. I have two personalities. And this is a more,
this is more relaxed. I want people to be happy, kind. You know, I want to talk about important
things. And so what I thought, and I thought, having you on, what a better guest to do it with.
But I was wondering if we could steel man a Christians worldview together. So, okay,
let's say you're a creationist. Someone is a creationist. Maybe we won't say young
and creationist. I think that gets too hard. I think that's, that's, that's an extra, that's
really hard to do. But let's say you're a creationist, you believe that, that God created us as the
Bible said, maybe it's poetic, poetic or something. How would you steel man that position? How could
you make it work? Say if someone came to you and said, I don't want to get rid of my faith for
whatever reason, is there a way I can make this work with your understanding of creationism and
your understanding of the Bible? How would you do that? What's the best way you could do that,
do you think? So I think the best interpretation of Genesis one is the one that I don't think he
came up with it, but that he Ross espouses. And that is the perspective shift view of Genesis one,
where, where God is, where the narrator is kind of just trying to observe God and only has limited
perspective. And so, and so has this perspective of God in the first verse, the earth is formless
and void. So obviously the earth exists at that point. But we know that's not how I would all
started. But but then in the on the third day, like the narrator shifts and is on this weird earth.
And then you can start to make some excuses as to why it appears like the stars were formed
after the earth. Because if it was a cloudy sky, you wouldn't know, you wouldn't have been able to
see the stars that obviously existed there for billions of years beforehand and things like
that. So I think, you know, I won't dwell on that too long. But I think from the cosmology's
perspective, I think it's a relatively easy way to just interpret it that way. And that actually
isn't uncompelling other than the fact that weirdly, we're still trying to say that the plants existed
before the sun did. And that is biology, biology. And that's problematic. But you can just kind of
wave your hand wave it away as figurative language. And the narrator didn't understand what they were
be it Moses or whoever, the narrator didn't understand everything that they were saying.
So it's not God telling the story, right? Because God would be able to explain it in great detail.
So if you talk about this imperfect narrator type thing, you kind of got that covered.
And then if you're willing to say that God, there's two ways to view this. And I actually
prefer the second way. So God, potentially in the first way, intervened at key points. So God
put his finger on the earth for a biogenesis said, okay, now, now chemistry will turn into biology.
And I put my finger on it for that. And now I need invertebrates. So
you're still accepting, so you're still accepting then that common descent, and you're still accepting
with modification, all these kind of things. But what you're kind of rejecting is this idea that
any element of randomness or natural selection is sufficient, that occasionally you need God to go,
whoop, that's the mutation I want. And whoop, that's mutation again. And that to me is totally
compatible with the God I believed in, that his acts of creation were in putting mutations
at the various points where they needed to be, and that that wouldn't have come about by chance.
That's perspective one, perspective two is that with his perfect knowledge, he reverse engineered
this in such a way that he actually was cleverly actually made those mutations happen naturally,
but because of the way he had planned things out. And I actually think that's actually the more
that's the better God, the God that knew so well, how all the pieces were going to lie,
that oh, that will be the mutation that result of all the radiation hitting in a certain way,
and boom, the invertebrate mutation is going to happen here because I pre-planned it,
as opposed to sticking your finger in to the ant hill and adjusting things. But either way,
I think either of those are compatible with the creationist God and still compatible with
common descent. And then what you have to say is that
when the wages of sin was deaf and that the sin, the fall affected all of nature,
what you have to say is no, what the fall did, what sin did was a spiritual death only,
and that physical death obviously did exist on the earth prior to that. And that while Adam and Eve
would have naturally lived to be thousands of years old, they would have eventually
died, that that was just part of it, because of course, it doesn't seem like evolution makes a
lot of sense if there's no death whatsoever. Imagine if no bacteria were dying, right?
No fruit fly was dying, just nothing was ever dying. It seems hard to imagine,
obviously not for billions of years could life have been sustained at those levels.
So from a, how did we get here, creationist standpoint? I don't know, does that make sense
to you? Does that, does that seem like, did I miss any bases?
No, I think that works. Do you think, so did you ever look at theistic evolution
when you were deconstructing? I did, I did. And very much thought that was probably going to be
the path I was going to go down. My hang up ended up being, first of all, a lot of New Testament
stuff, just the New Testament didn't make sense. But also, I'm pretty convinced that as I interpret
the text, in the most honest way that I can, that Paul and Jesus were also both younger
creationists. They both talked about Adam and Eve as literal people, the literal progenitors of the
human race with no one before them. So if both Paul and Jesus were all in on this young
Earth creationism narrative, that, that's problematic, right? Then their whole narrative
is also suspect, besides the fact that there isn't, to me, enough evidence to corroborate the
miracle claims, right? But, but the fact that if I'm going to accept the Bible as true, then they
held to the problematic science. For me, I mean, while not Strada broke Campbell's back, certainly
is a big problem. Wow. Well, that's, you're incredibly insightful. I've got a hundred more
notes here to, to go over, but I'd spend all day and we wouldn't get your online, we wouldn't get
that. But I do, there's something I do want to touch on before we kind of get to a couple of
super chats that we have. And if you've got any questions, guys, super chat them, and we will
answer them. But one last thing I wanted to talk about is, you know, the emotional cost of, of,
of everything that you've gone through. But not only that, but you, we, and I asked you
beforehand if we could talk about this, but the, you know, when you dig, it's truly other you
deconstructed, you were diagnosed with a serious illness. And how did that affect you? And how,
and did you, and did you ever, you know, were there moments where you prayed, were there moments where
you thought about your faith again, were there moments where, you know, you, it made you question
if this was a punishment or something, or like, what, can you talk a little bit about, about
the emotional cost of that? Well, I didn't have to come up with the idea myself that it was a
punishment because very shortly after I was unfortunately outed against, not against my will,
but I was outed. I didn't come out voluntarily. My community learned of it from other people
who I thought I thought I was safe talking to and I wasn't. And so very, very quickly,
without me having mentally prepared for it, the community shifted against me and I was very
scrambling and was left with not a lot of help. And in the weeks, merely weeks after that, all just,
I was forced to leave my home, there was just a lot of stuff going on. Then I started to notice
something on my body that was just growing at alarming rates. And, and I went and got,
went to an emergency room and got it taken out and then it grew back again, like just every bit
as big, like, very, very quickly. And then so they buy opposite things. And it turns out I had the
extremely rare version of cancer that, like, whether it was in the, in the triple digits,
like only hundreds of people on the earth have even had the type of cancer that I had,
such that I was subject to a scientific paper, in fact, even on, on, on the whole thing.
But to get to answer your question, but I very quickly had people who hadn't spoken to me,
just gave me the complete silent treatment, managed to break their silence, the throw
over the fence at me, see, see the punishment God is giving you for, for, for being, for rejecting
him. And, you know, if the way to cure this will be to, to come back, like I got the worst
sentiments regarding that just the least helpful takes. So
there's some human defiance there. And it's kind of like, well, no, it's like that.
I'm not, I'm not buying that. And I'm not, so I didn't actually turn to God during my,
my cancer times. I, I was like, I mean, this is my first big test of my new worldview. And can
I get through it? And weirdly, you know, I had these conversations with doctors. I was in the
hospital every single day for years. So not at night, but during the day. And I got to talk to
nurses. And I was like, well, tell me, talk to me about miracles and talk to me about these things.
And, you know, I come to, when they start to see you a lot and they start to open up to you,
it's like the, the medical profession. So like, yeah, we, we couldn't have, we didn't have the
techniques to actually help you with this cancer eight years ago. Like eight years ago, we would
just cut your limbs off and you would have hoped, hoped for the best for you. And like all these
things, you know, we've been advancing, we were working on this and specifically even your case
where we're trying certain things. And we get frustrated when the hospital policy is, you know,
if a patient thinks something is a miracle, you, you play along with it, you give them
whatever hope they're supposed to get, like it's, it's part of their, their care, whatever,
whatever thing gives them hope, you kind of play along. And so, you know, then I hear,
I hear down the hallway, hey, it's a miracle and yay, the staff's agreeing. But no, it's the,
it's literally the staff. I'm being a bit rambly here too, but it's, no, I went through that
weirdly. That was my first big test as a secular person. But as a result, it did mean that I went
through probably the most challenging thing I ever went through with the least support,
the smallest support team. I have a much bigger support team now than I did then.
I, I continue to always, I owe everything to the tiny group of people who stuck by me and
stuck with me through that. But no, they, the Christians didn't made no, they made no, they
missed no opportunity to, to try and weaponize that against me in whatever way they could, sadly.
And so yeah, it was, it was mostly, it was, it was rough. It was rough.
Yeah. And at one point I had only four weeks to live. So at one point, so the kind of cancer I
had was if it basically they're saying, like, if it ever hits your chest, we're not even going to
try and do anything for you. Cause it's so aggressive that we'll just try and make you
comfortable. And suddenly on one of my very regular checkups, they caught something in my chest that
looked like it might be it. And they're like, well, we're going to actually this, we're going to
biopsy, but you're going to have to sit for a couple of days, you know, in the Schrodingers.
How much time do you have left situation? And I remember very much remember those, those few
days that I had the only most vivid days of my life, I think, because it's where you're just
facing, okay, I don't believe in the afterlife anymore. And I might only have four weeks. So now
what? So then it's literally it's that face to face. Is this a phase? Is this a fad? Am I going
to Pascal wager this because I don't, I want fire insurance? It was, it was a little bit more of a
atheist boot camp than I wanted, shall we say? Anyway, that's, I say it, I say it somewhat with
a smile and somewhat flippantly now that it's a few years past, but at the time, you mentioned
my cartoon. I started making videos while I was still quite sick. And one of the things that I
knew from working in the film industry and entertainment industry was that how you present
yourself matter. And if you are being, if you're presenting yourself as a sickly person, your,
sorry, my Siri just kicked in there and was talking to me. Can you still hear me?
Yeah, then that makes a difference, right? So I, but I had an animation background and things. Oh,
you know, what I can do is I can make myself a cartoon and just use my voice. And I could even
hear them that last video of myself that I was still, still while I was sick. That was why I
did that. Now I didn't ever want to tell anyone that that wasn't the thing I wanted to advertise.
And so now that that's more publicly known, it actually does make the people who complain about
it seem even maybe more petty than they should be, right? Like I say, yeah, because you just didn't
want to appear as the scrawny bald person who with caved in face and eyes. Like, yeah,
chemo, chemo man isn't going to put forth as compelling a narrative. So I laugh. I probably,
I, I agree, coming from a comic background, I probably Superman myself a little more than I
should have, but you know, you're over, we all overcompensate for things.
No, I, no, I totally, I just think I, I don't, I didn't pick that up really until, until Kent
kept going on about it, just because it's just funny that he just, it feels like he has no,
nothing else to talk about. He also is vastly convinced that I changed my voice that still
keeps coming up. And I don't know what you mean. They, that I, that I deepened my voice somehow
or like that in posts that I slow it down and add base to it or whatever. I'm like, I literally
have a live channel now where I'm just talking to people. I don't know what kind of voice changer
you think. I've also gone to conventions. Like I've literally, people have recordings of me
speaking live. Like I don't know how I'm changing my voice live. Exactly. There's some insecurity,
I think on when you come across, you have a baritone voice that maybe that seems,
maybe that's something he aspires to, I'm not sure. Yeah. I just went till Jordan Pearson
comes after you for the same thing. Yeah. Yeah. That's, that's very good because even, you know,
you're in your production as well, you know, that like, and that's, you know, you, you do add
things to your voice naturally, like, you know, you sharpen things up in the handling and stuff.
But I don't pick up like, that you've like, overlaid the sound of like dragons breathing as you
like. That's a great idea. That's awesome. Okay. Well, thank you so much for coming on.
Could we just do a couple of quick super chats and thank you everyone who was super chatted.
Thank you. I have a few comments. Sylvia Patron said, I certainly want to hear your story. Thanks.
So I appreciate. Oh, you're very welcome. I'm glad it helps in whatever way it helped. That's great.
Bible Unbox said, my friend works for the New South Wales government. Koala's take 15
years to learn to use nature bridges over roads and stuff. Yeah. I mean, this is exactly what's
up. So they're just, so can't have a say, well, there weren't any roads.
Happened. They didn't need any nature, but I don't know how they, the water, the water
problem. Anyway.
Dee, also a patron and supporter. How did, thank you for the tendal super chat.
How did Paul deal with things like Adam's age in the Bible when he was a believer?
I just accepted that on its face value. Like I didn't think, I've now come to think that
probably it was some mix of, they probably believed it, but that there were also a figure
of numbers. It's amazing how all the patriarchs, you know, their, their ages ended at double zero.
Oh, they lived exactly that long in it. I don't know. Like for me, I didn't seem
implausible that Abraham, that Adam would live 900 years. Like that didn't seem, and then
some of the notions that, oh, well, how did Moses end up being able to have all the knowledge that
he would need to write the whole Pentateuch? Well, all of a sudden the difference, all of a
sudden, like these generations are all living side by side, right? Because they're living
so long. So that reduces some of the possibility. I don't know. How did you deal with the ages?
Like for me, if you're going to buy into donkeys are talking and snakes are talking and virgin
births and all that kind of stuff, you know, someone living for a long time, isn't the biggest of the
possibility problems? I remember I started reading it, my children's Bible, when I was
on a grade seven or something, just randomly, I go up to the pot where it's like, I know it was
300 years old. And I was like, when you finish the arc, and I remember looking at like raising
an eyebrow, the text and going, come on, like really? Like, and I remember just thinking that's,
and then just pushing it to the side of my brain, like, oh, well, I'm sure there's an answer for
that somewhere. So also the way it was depicted to me in art and things like that was kind of a
Highlander situation, where I haven't seen Highlander. But the premise in Highlander is at some
point you stop or a vampire situation, maybe a vampire is more familiar, right? At some point,
you just, oh, that's the point where you become immortal. And whenever the age you are there,
you're just kind of locked into that age as opposed to that. So probably in my mind,
Noah at 80, and Noah at 300 looked identical, like that they were just, you know, that that
was part of God's process. And or, I mean, because we also have to imagine, so Cain and Abel,
that situation happens, right? The sons of Adam and Eve. And we have to, I always forget which
killed which Cain killed Abel. Yeah. So Cain, Cain needs to, he's afraid when God wants to punish
him, he's like, oh, but the people out there, they're going to hurt me. So you now have to think,
oh, well, they are young enough that Adam and Eve had enough kids to populate a whole other town.
Right? Because there has to be a whole other town worth of people to send him to. So then you
actually, yeah, so his, those are all his brothers and sisters, but you also then kind of need Adam
to be 900. Yeah, because we're not imagining that Eve's still only having one baby a year. So
does she go through menopause at 50? Like, yeah, presumably, like, yeah, you're not at 50. No, I
probably at, you know, at 600 or something. Yeah, right? Oh, Jesus. Anyway, D, I would, yeah, I'm
curious. But I do remember Day saying that, that she first heard about it in, I think,
kids church. I think this was the UD. And you said you first heard about it in kids church and you
laughed at because you thought they were joking. But that's, yeah, it's, it's wild. So from your
lovely partner, Shannon Q, thank you for the five little super chat. What would Paul say
to a loving, is that Christian? Yeah, X-I-I-N is usually Christian. Yeah,
brain genius in the chat who says he's only an atheist because he was already silly enough to
be a young Christianist. Okay, you know, that, that's not entirely implausible, frankly, that I
have thought about that. Like, so people have accused me of shifting from one fundamentalism to
another. And if you are the kind of a black and white thinker that I was, I still, in a way,
I acknowledge that I'm kind of a black and white thinker and that for me, like the scriptures,
I don't care if the scriptures contain some kind of philosophical truth or literary truth
in the small T way that it's kind of speaking to you. Like, that, that's fine. But it doesn't,
unless it's true in the conformist to reality sense, I don't actually care. And so I acknowledge
my own limitations in, like, just the kind of, that kind of subtlety I am disinterested in.
And so if God doesn't care that the, that the Bible is historical or not, and that it's all,
the entire thing is a metaphor, and that it's supposed to speak to something ethereal that
can never be measured, I'm just screwed. Because that's not the way my brain works.
And so I'm never going to latch on to that. So if you, if your Christianity is so pliable,
that no fact can falsify any of it. And there are lots of Christians like that.
Yeah, I can't follow you there. So if that's what you mean. But if you mean that I was like,
that I'm intellectually inferior, like that's also possible, that I'm just, I'm one of the
dumber specimens on earth, and I fell for that. And I'm currently atheist, then God has still,
that's fine then, but through no fault of my own, I'm too dumb to know that the real God exists.
And there's nothing I can do about that. Like, if, if God's threshold of intelligence for
salvation is here, and I'm below it, what am I supposed to do? Like nothing, I'm just screwed.
So I love that you've given a serious answer to this troll in the chat, but, but that's, that's,
that's amazing. Okay. Not, not Shannon, you weren't sure you're talking about the troll,
which I assume is a troll. I'm just basing off your comment. I haven't read the comments. But,
but it's embarrassing, like it's totally embarrassing that I used to,
like talk about criterion of embarrassment, I go around on channels and admit that I thought the
earth was 6,000 years old. And then I thought there were dinosaurs on the ark. And like,
that is, it's, it's embarrassing. It's still embarrassing. And I, I, that is, it is an ego
hit still to this day. Like, I'm not going to lie. There's, you know, we're talking about
spiritual experiences and, you know, having that divine revelation or something. And I've
thought about this as like, you know, I used to, I used to have, I would, if someone held a gun to
my head and made me denounce Jesus when I was a Christian, I would have taken the bullet. Like,
I just was, I was devout. I really believe what I believed. Now I'm, I don't know if someone held
a gun to my head and told me, no, is your worldview so sound that you will risk it for, I don't know
if I would die from a, well, I don't even know. I don't really have a, I don't know. But the point
is like, it made me really nervous about like, what if, what if I'm not, like, what if what I'm
believing now is totally like, I'm totally, you know, well, so the Christian, like, we literally
have these things, they never happened to me, but to contemporaries of mine, they were literally like,
have youth leaders come and like, while they were on the bus, they would have men dressed up. This
is pre-911 with guns, right? And come on the bus with, with the 13 year old kids and say, you know,
we renounce Jesus right now and like, you know, play act the thing to try and scare them, to try
and like recreate these things, which is a terribly abusive thing to do. And I hope that
doesn't happen anymore. But if you were going to take that bullet for Jesus in your head, the second
that bullet gets to the other side of your skull, you're with Jesus, right? You and I now, if the
bullet goes through our skull, we know that that is it. I guess this is the one and only life we
get. So the Christian has the easier answer, because that just gets them home faster.
You and I don't have that. We have to, you know, that would just be the end of, the end of David
and Paul, that would just be, be done. So, but I've gotten over my fear of death on, on that
front on a lot of ways. So fine. The thing, well, I guess my point that I was trying to get to in
again, the rum has helped me with this, not being very coherent, but the point is that I think that
my camera's had too much of a drink. I hate when it does that. That's funny. It's just like stuck
out of blur focus. But the, there we go. That's better. Oh, it's just not. It's not funny. Oh,
I will keep talking. Yeah. But you know, if I had this like amazing experience, and I was like,
you know, I was, it was more powerful than any experience that I've ever had before in my entire
life. What I've said to myself is I hope that wouldn't convince me of the existence of God.
Like I hope an experience wouldn't, like I hope I would be intellectually honest enough to admit
that there could be something else going on there. And even if I did become a Christian
through circumstances like that, for like a divine or a personal experience, I know a
psychic would still be demonstratively false. Evolution would still be demonstratively true.
Like the Bible would still have problems. Like it doesn't solve any of the problems that a lot
of people come to me and tell me about. I've always messaged Michael Jones and we're friends,
but I troll him and we have a banter back and forth and we pick on each other. And I sent him
recently, I sent him some, I sent him some Law of the Rings tattoos. And I said, when don't we get
in a matching tattoo? Because we both like Law of the Rings. And he said, when do you get, when
you convert to Christianity? And I said, do you believe in one saved or always saved? Because
we could have, you know, I could technically still be in the club. Let's get a tattoo, baby.
And you just, yeah, shoot his head. But, but yeah, it's, it's all the same things that I'm still
talking about. It's not like an experience within nullified them. I don't reach the conclusion
based on intuition. I reach the conclusion based on evidence and reason. And, and which,
yeah, I know that that's where I would have to, you asked me if I went into the
more liberal type of Christianity. And that's where I would then need to, if I became convinced
that God was real, then I would need to come to some kind of conclusion and resolution on Noah's
Ark and, and prophecy and when these books were written and who the authors were, like I would
have a lot of work to do for sure. I would probably need to also come to the idea that the
biblical inerrancy is not actually something that the Bible even teaches,
that that's something that the Western church has kind of layered upon it later.
Well, I said this to, I said this to Megan Lewis of Digital Hammurabi, and she's Christian. And I
said, I said, you know, where in the Bible does it say that, sorry, this is a bit of a rant,
but where in the Bible does it say that we need to take everything, you know, oral traditions
and everything and write a little down and preserve it and then use it for 2000 years to argue about
LGBT rights and abortions. It doesn't say that. And I said, in fact, God gave us, according to the
Bible, of course, but God gave us the Holy Spirit to be the witness and to go, and he told us to go
preach the gospel and to use the power of the Holy Spirit. And I was like, what if it was the
devil's plan all along to canonize the Bible to put all these things in writing? You could say
the devil did it. It's confused everyone. Really, the Holy Spirit should be witnessing to people.
But of course, I'm using the Bible there to build that theology, that those ideas,
so it kind of falls apart. But it's interesting. And she kind of...
No, no, but the answer to that is the best lies contain kernels of truth. Like, so if you were
the devil and you were the best liar that ever existed, every statement you made would be 99%
true and just have the one bit of, you know, bit of... Like, if you look at Genesis 3, where
Satan is talking to Eve or retcon Satan, it was a serpent urging. Everything you said was actually
true, right? It was just this weird spin on it. So like Satan, the serpent doesn't lie at any point.
So we're aware of... Yeah, but anyway, I've got one last super chat. And of course, Dee also
mentioned, and I can't even remember if I brought this up, but yes, I got kicked out. She got kicked
out for laughing at them in Kids' Church about... That she thought they were joking about the age
of people. Okay, Hemfe, she, what do you... Thank you for this handle, super chat. What do you think
made the writers of the Torah stick with the Anna A. N. E. such Babylon combat myth and flat earth,
rather than Pythagoras' such Anna, Zorah, Gauras, and Aristotle in their Hellenistic world? Oh my
gosh, sorry about the reading of that, but... So the writers of the Torah, if you're... I'm going to
place the Pentateuch around, say, 1200 and 900 BC. Really? Okay. And was that earlier or later than
you thought I was going to say? I thought... I thought the earliest, like, mention we had of
Israel was the Mineptus Delay at, like, wasn't it like 600 BC? Maybe I'm getting confused.
The real me. So anyway, whatever you want to say, but I'm going to put it around there. So
your Hellenistic period, if you want to even be the most generous to start that with Alexander the
Great, like, that's not even that's pre-Rome, but like, if you want to start that, that's four or
500 BC. If I remember correctly, the Rome has kicked in a little bit, but let's... I still think there's
the point is, I still think there's a time gap between when Genesis was written, when the Pentateuch,
and probably the precursors of the Pentateuch, right? Because it's obvious the Pentateuch is
a stitched together version of many other documents. So who knows how far those documents that they
stitched together go back. I just don't think that the authors of those had an opportunity
to incorporate Hellenistic ideas. If you're... So it's very clear that Genesis chapter one is a
response to the Mesopotamian Enuma Elish creation story. I don't think it was intended to be a copy
of it. I don't think it's intended to be that that's where they got the ideas. I think what it was
intended to say was, you've got your creation story. Our creation story is yours, but better,
because we have one God instead of a bunch of them, and they're not fighting. Like, I just...
Clearly, to me, the author knew of the other, and it was just, this is one of the situations
that our God is better than your God type of situations. And so when you're in that paradigm,
it doesn't make any sense to switch over. Now, the question may rightfully be, why didn't Second
Temple era Jews then... Who would have then had exposure to those ideas rejected? And I think
what... I'm not convinced that the Old Testament is as Flat Earth and whatever the opposite of...
Well, no, Heliocentric. Heliocentric is the right word. No, that's what we are. The opposite of
whatever Heliocentric is. I don't think it is as literal as that would be, because again,
that would be taking it in the way that a Ken Ham would take it. And there seems to be
some evidence that even before Jesus came around, that long ages of the earth was part of at least
some of the Jewish tradition, that there was some... Younger creationism may well be a 18th
century plus thing, not a BC philosophy. Does that answer the question? I am now rambling.
David, what do you think? Did I answer that question? I think there was a time gap. I don't
think it was written. There was an answer in there. And this is what I love about Deep Drinks. And
the drinks start flowing. And I've done some long episodes with Dr. Kip Davis, where we're
drinking straight whiskey. And you can go at the start of the episode, look at our face and how
we're talking, and then go to three hours in. And we're slurring our speech. I'm looking for the
end button. I wish I had my channel if it's like that, but we talk about conspiracy theories,
so it gets more fun. Oh, that's exciting. Well, the short answer is I think I'm convinced that the
Pentateuch part of the New Testament was written before the Pythagoras and all those area people
came into being. That's my short answer. I could be wrong about that, but that seems to be the
way I take it. Awesome. Well, we are pretty well gone over time. And someone said before,
where's Dr. Josh when you need him? And unfortunately, he ducked in to drop this comment. Oh,
please, keep suppressing the truth in non-righteousness atheists. You can't desire the evidence of
the flood from 2541 BC. So he always drops in to leave a troll comment like that and then ducks
out. So unfortunately, he wasn't here when we actually needed him to talk about the start of
Israel. But with that said, two things. If you haven't subscribed or gone over to Paula Jia,
first of all, what are you doing? This is an amazing channel. But more importantly,
you got a new channel. Paula Jia Live. I do. And I could either help if you're tired of the cartoon
and the fake muscles and all that kind of garbage and the fake voice and all that kind of stuff.
And you're tired of things that are scripted and where I fact check myself. And if you prefer
ramblings like we just did for 90 minutes, this is the channel for you. I apologize.
And I have watched a few more than episodes. Then I have to click on Ms. Lemon. I didn't
know you had this. That's cool. Ms. Lemon is cool. I like Ms. Lemon. We've just been on
deep drinks. I have watched a few more episodes than it shows up. I've got a different couple
of different YouTube. Oh, no, I'm not worried about you. No reason. On that channel, of course,
you can go find my two full length conversations with Eric Hovind as well, if you're interested
in young art creation conversations. No way. You had conversations? Yeah, two. I had a very long
one on his that was on his channel and he had one on mine. Yeah, so if you look at... Whoa, okay.
So they won't, neither of them would be on the live section. You'd want to go to the videos
section. Yeah. And I don't know, but they're... Anyway, go find Eric Hovind because...
Yeah. And then I've had debates and... Yeah. Man, you've got some amazing guests on here too.
I need to dive more deeper into this channel. This is awesome. Anyway, everyone, go subscribe.
Yeah, for sure. And thank you so much. Apologies for coming on. You played a...
Again, you played a massive role in helping me go through the often hard time in my life of
deconstruction. And I've shown my beautiful wife, your clips as well. I'm sure you've helped her
and you've helped so many people. And I just... You are insightful. I think...
And what's the word that you disagree with at the start? So I'm not a beacon. I am a cautionary
tale. And I will bite you on that. Cautionary tale. I made all the mistakes. And so if my
array of mistakes can help a few people avoid a few of them, that's, I guess, well served time.
Well, okay, I'll give you that. Your cautionary tale, but a great tale at that. Thank you so
much for apologizing for coming on. Guys, check out his channel. The links to everything is in
the description. And make sure you subscribe. There's a little banner I'll put up. We have
some exciting guests coming up. The transcendent of apostasy and debauchery, Arden Hart and Professor
Matthew Monger coming up to discuss Genesis. This is actually what we're talking about before.
Mesopotamian roots. So it's going to be really good. And if you want to support the channel,
of course, Patreon, join the channel, Super Chat. All very thankful. And I'll see you guys later.
