Welcome everyone to Deep Drinks Podcasts.
It's really good to be here today, it's really, really an exciting episode we've got coming
up.
So today we are talking about something quite controversial.
We're looking at God's Father.
We're made in the image of God, right?
Did God have a family?
He has a son.
Let's look at this, this is going to be interesting.
We have some Bible scriptures as well.
We're also going to be looking at Hell and Comparative Mythology with my guest today,
Jacob Berman of the History Valley YouTube channel.
He's the creator and host where he does conversations quite similar to this, but I'd say more academic,
how can I say, well thought out than I guess my Australian rambling arse does.
But with that said, welcome Jacob Berman to Deep Drinks Podcasts.
Thanks for coming on, man.
Thank you for having me.
So I'm really, really excited for this one because this is a conversation that happened
when I was on your show just recently.
I think we ended the conversation and then I started to ask questions about you,
and then off there, and then you started talking about your story and how you
discovered some of these things.
And I was like, wait, what?
I've heard Dan McClellan talk about this, but this is interesting.
But before we jump into it, as always, what are we drinking today?
I got my Coke bottle right here.
Oh, yeah.
And you know what, we're cost of living crisis in Australia.
So I've got my cheap version of Cola, the home brand sugar-free version.
So it's just as good.
Does the same thing.
So yeah, we're cracking off as we Coke today,
which is nice to finally not be drunk in the middle of the day.
So can I just ask you firstly, for those who don't know you,
can you tell us a little bit about your upbringing and who you are as a person?
Who is Jacob?
Sure.
Yeah, my research started around like 2014, 2014,
when I was going through the Torah.
And I came across a couple of verses in Deuteronomy, and it was about God apparently
inheriting Israel from another God.
And I became very curious about that.
And I've pretty much been practically always an atheist for the most part.
Well, not just for most part, but pretty much.
And they're really bought into religion.
But then of course, there was a lot of people out there.
And I was like, oh, you should believe because, you know, you could go to hell, right?
It's better, better to believe.
That's something we hear all the time, right?
It's better to believe so you don't risk going to hell.
Yeah.
So it's like, oh, what's the harm in believing anyway, right?
Well, that's actually, sorry to already interject.
That's what I like to do, by the way.
I'm apologize.
But that's already a weird thing, a weird framing.
It's not like you're choosing to believe.
You know what I mean?
Like, isn't belief like you're convinced of something or you're not convinced of something?
It's not like, it's not for like barring for a football team or a soccer team or something.
It's a sports team.
It's how you're convinced of it or not.
So yeah, that's interesting.
Right.
And one of the frequent responses against it is that, well, how do you know you're not
going to go to someone else's hell, right?
Because other religions have hells too.
How do you know you're not going to go to a very hell or to someone else's punishment?
Like, how do you know?
So it's kind of the same problem for them too.
But, and obviously the idea is very scary and I was very afraid of the idea.
I'm like, okay, well, I want to really look into this.
I'm like, does it make sense?
But it didn't really make sense to me.
And then I come across this, exactly as I mentioned earlier, I came across Deuteronomy
for agency tonight, which is really what got the ball rolling for me.
So, okay, well, you're telling me, go ahead.
Well, can I just ask, sorry, why were you reading the Bible in the first place instead
of playing Halo or something or, you know, why, why, why, why did you have any interest
in reading the Bible?
Well, because I was sort of a lot about the Bible when I grew up.
And, and I wanted to look into it.
I wanted to learn about it.
I want to learn why people believe it, why people take it seriously.
Why do a lot of people believe in this?
Several people that I've met believe in this.
So it was more of a curiosity.
And why do people believe in this?
Why do they fear it in a way out of, there's a lot of people saying they believe in it
out of fear, but God loves them too.
That's kind of where God loves you, but is threatening you with hellfire, supposedly,
if you don't leave.
So that's kind of a weird relationship.
Like a love hate relationship going on there.
But it's more like, it's not really that.
It's more like a, it's a threat.
And you're being threatened into worshiping this deity.
That's, that's how it feels like.
So I'm like, okay, well, this is obviously wrong.
And so when I started looking to, looking into this myself, the way I approached it is
not just from the perspective of other people have hells, other, other religions have punishments.
And how do you know you're not going to go to someone else's hell versus the Christian hell?
But the fact that the, that the biblical God has a father, when you read your army for each
human to say tonight, I'm going to pull up the slide in a moment here.
But the fact that God has a father, it makes you, it gave me the impression like,
this is making me take this even less seriously than I already, you know, I was, I was, I was,
I was already not taking it seriously as it is.
But this, this is, it's like to me, this is absurd.
So I'm supposed to believe that God is the only God.
But it turns out that the same book is saying that, oh, he inherited from the most high God.
So I wanted to investigate this.
Who was this most high God?
Because often they tell you God is the most high.
So what are you talking about?
What do you mean God is the son of the most high?
He can't be the son of the most high.
But that doesn't make any sense.
I might, well, when you start looking into it, you start realizing that the most high and,
and, and Yahweh or Adonai, whatever you want to call them, were originally separate beings.
They were not originally the same being.
And there's a lot of scholarship done on this that he, that originally in early Judaism,
he was originally understood as a son of, of the most high God, El Eleon or El Eleon,
the most high God.
And the texts experienced some changes over time, which is something I'm going to get into right
now.
So I'm going to go ahead and pull up the slide.
All right, here it is.
This is so, it's so interesting because we, we regularly do like not deconstruction.
Well, we, yeah, we'd regularly deconstruction stories, but we do people stories.
And it's just so funny that this is actually part of your story is finding this, this verse,
but it's also the, the more meaty part of what we're going to be talking about today.
So I'll bring up the, this is your slides and yes, I got my handy Bible here too.
So I can look up the same references.
Yeah.
So what it says is when the most high gave to the nations very inheritance when he separated
the sons of men, he fixed the bounds of the peoples according to the number of the sons of
God, the Lord's portion is his people, Jacob, his allotted heritage.
So you see that right there, heritage, he inherits.
So he's inheriting the Lord, I don't know, Yahweh, Hashem, wherever we want to call them,
is inheriting from the most high God.
Now this, this matches what we see.
This translation is based on 4QDUJ, which is the version right on the top.
That's a Dead Sea Scroll.
Yeah.
So I just read that and the one is very much the same.
So I'm not going to read it again.
But when we see the Septuagint version, which pretty much reads the same,
but it says angels of God instead.
And then when you get to the, the JPS Tanakh, which is the,
based on the Maseritic text, you see children of Israel instead.
So there's been some changes done here.
Okay.
Can I, can I pause?
Yeah.
Because I'm not a smart man, but I know what love is.
So, so I always say that and then refer, tell everyone, by the way, that's a Forrest Gump reference.
Sorry.
I'm laughing at my own weirdness.
Hey everyone, I'm back.
No, so, so can you, can you give us a bit of a breakdown?
Because for, when I was a Christian, my understanding was we had manuscripts of like
the originals of like one, and I'll just bring this slide down for now.
All right.
For a second.
Sure.
We had these originals, manuscripts, and then that's what we translated directly into English.
But obviously, since then, I've learned that the Bible is, you know, a lot of the Bible is written
from mismatched different documents from all over that all are saying to be the same document.
So can you explain what you mean by the different codices that you have there and what you're saying?
So this would be like a process of redaction.
So what you see in the Septuagint is closer to the Dead Sea Scrolls.
And scholars would say that the, and it's very complicated.
There's a lot going on here.
This is kind of a, but you could call it textual criticism.
So when you look at the Septuagint, you look at the Dead Sea Scrolls, you look at the differences,
because there are differences.
So there are more differences than I can get into tonight.
There's, there's, there's quite a lot.
Well, not a lot, but there are some.
There's some, there are some differences.
But is the, what is the Septuagint compared to the Dead Sea Scrolls?
Because we found the Dead Sea Scrolls like 50 years ago.
So before, before we had the Dead Sea Scrolls was a Septuagint, the earliest version of Deuteronomy that we had.
Well, let me explain the origin of the Septuagint.
So the Septuagint started out originally as a translation of the Torah.
Five books, the first five books of the Sonach.
And this happened in the 1st century BCE.
It's a translation of, of the Hebrew Bible into Greek.
Now, when you look into the history of the scholarship done on the Septuagint,
because it said angels of God.
It was hypothesized, this is before the Dead Sea Scrolls were found,
that the original probably said,
sons of God,
B'nai Elohim,
that that's basically what they were saying.
And then the Dead Sea Scrolls were found.
And it said it pretty much.
I was like, oh, we're right.
And the Dead Sea Scrolls are earlier than the Septuagint?
Not all of them.
Most of them are later.
Some of them probably around the time.
And I think maybe a couple of them are earlier.
I don't exactly have that information in front of me right now.
So I'll just end it out there.
But what I'll say is scholars would basically say that the Dead Sea Scrolls
are going to get us as close as we're going to get to the,
an earlier version of the revival before it was translated into the Greek.
Yeah, okay.
And what I just showed earlier is an example of how the Septuagint
is at times closer, there it is, to the LXX, that's a Septuagint, everybody.
So the Septuagint, which is the middle version in the screen there,
is closer to the original or closer to what's in the Dead Sea Scrolls
than the Masoretic version that we see in the bottom.
And there are other examples like this too.
And so when you look into this, you'll see what I'm talking about.
And there's a lot of scholarships that's been done on this.
And I think it's obvious why it's been changed.
Why do they change it to children of Israel?
I think it's quite clear what it does.
You don't want to imply they're overpowers, right?
No.
You don't want to do that.
You got to get rid of that.
Even putting angels of God there is a problem, because if you got God inheriting from whatever
God, then you're kind of equating God with the angels of God too,
that are given other nations, respectively.
So that's a little bit of a problem.
You can't have that.
So you got to change it to children of Israel.
And when you change it to children of Israel, you change the context.
And so all of a sudden, and this is what they'll say often today,
oh, you see, he's inheriting from himself.
God gave him self Israel.
That's how they put it.
Yeah, it's like when Cameron Batuzzi tells me that when God is resting on the eighth day,
that he's still all powerful and he didn't need to rest, but he's just resting because, I don't know.
Yeah, it's like he's resting for no reason, but yeah, because he's all powerful.
Yeah, and too bad.
And the so-called all powerful God gets defeated by iron chariots and judges.
So how does that work?
Yeah, yeah, we'll get into that.
So what I've discovered through talking to people like yourself, to Dr. Kip, to Dr.
Mathemonga, to all the all the guys, all the scholars and stuff, is that the Bible seems to be
a originally a mismatch of a lot of different ideas that are kind of worked and massaged into
the text. So you get these like holdovers of things that don't seem to make sense with later
theologies, but they made sense maybe at the time, or there are certain beliefs are adopted.
So for example, I think Dan, Dr. Dan McClellan was saying when he came on Deep Drinks that
that L was a Canaanite deity. I think it was L. I could be getting this wrong. It was a long time ago.
Yeah, it's L. Yeah, L was a Canaanite deity that likely got adopted into the pantheon of
and became El Shaddai, which is El Shaddai the most high, but became El Ion's the most high.
El Shaddai is God Almighty. Yeah, yeah, they got brought into the same pantheon and became part
of the pantheon of Israel, which is another interesting thing because in parts of the
Bible too, you see that it's clear that there are other gods, have no other gods but me.
But if I talk to a Christian today, they're like, no, there is only one God.
The Bible doesn't even say that. Like maybe like that gets massaged again into the text later on,
but there's a lot of different voices and there's no one idea. And that's why
in Christianity you have 45,000 denominations according to the center of Christian studies,
I think it is. And if there is no other God, how could God get jealous because he
read the commandments, right? And God says, I'm a jealous man. What is there to be jealous about?
Especially, exactly. I never thought about that because why would he be jealous of
people that have to be something on his level, right?
Doesn't make sense. Yeah, interesting. That's interesting.
That's like, if my friend got a promotion at work, I might be jealous. But if my dog got
promoted in poppy school, I'm just going to be stoked. I'm not going to be like, oh, I'm jealous.
There you go. That's a good analogy, yeah. Except God is obviously all powerful, so he's
infinitely greater. The gap is infinitely greater. So there's another verse that you had that kind
of also points in this direction that God maybe had a father and that's like a holdover from old
ideas. Well, I'm not sure if this is the one you meant, but in this one, it talks about
God appearing in the Divine Council, taking his place in the Divine Council. Then when you work
your way down, it says, I say you are God's children of the Messiah, all of you. Nevertheless,
you shall die like mortals and fall like any prince. Rise up, oh, judge. I was like, rise up,
oh, God, judge me, or for all the nations belong to you. So what you got here is like, okay, you got
God's children of the Messiah that that part would be consistent with what we saw earlier.
You've got sons of God and those sons of God, each one of those sons of God are being given
a different nation to control. And the Lord, who is one of those many gods,
is being given Israel as his territory to control. So a Divine Council here
in Psalms makes sense. But we also see something else I think that's going on here. Notice it gets
a little polemical there. You see some polemic. It says you shall die like mortals and fall like
any prince. So I think here we're seeing, we could be seeing some evidence here. I think we're seeing
some evidence here about this is where this text was even written around or maybe a little later,
but around the time that we're moving away from caring about those other gods. We've got to get
rid of them. We've got to, we've got to promote the Lord as the only God. We've got to promote your
way as the God. That's what they got. What we saw earlier is evidence of Hinopheism, I would say,
that, okay, they're worshiping one God while not necessarily denying the existence of other gods.
They weren't monotheistic yet. Because monotheism is like, okay, there is absolutely no other gods.
There's no room for any other gods. There's only one. So that would be like the next step, I would say.
So now let's take a look at the next one.
Okay, so this is a, this is a big one right here that we need to look at. Two kings, five,
sixteen, eight. I'm going to read the whole thing, but he said, as the Lord lives whom I serve, I will
accept nothing. He urged him to accept, but he refused. Then Naaman said, if not, please let two
meal loads of earth be given to your servant. For your servant will no longer offer burnt offerings,
will no longer offer burnt offering or sacrifice to any God except the Lord, but
may the Lord pardon your servant on one count when my master goes into the house of remin
to worship their leaning on my arm and I bow down in the house of remin. When I do bow down in the
house of remin, may the Lord pardon your servant on this one count. Okay, so Naaman is taking two
meal loads of earth so he can bring Israel with him as it goes into another deity's territory.
You see how that's interesting there? So Naaman is not under the impression as only one god. He
can't be. Why is he doing this? Why is he going for the trouble of bringing two meal loads of earth
with him? Because he's, yeah. He knows there's a problem. This is also another thing that's
kind of blown my mind in my whole process of reexamining the Bible with an academic critical,
kind of not academic, but critical lens is that you forget that I was taught the Bible through
the New Testament, through the lens of Jesus. I was taught the Hebrew Bible and so you read
Jesus into everything but Jesus isn't there unless you want him to be there. And one of the things
that I found incredibly interesting is you know how you go to some, there'll be some like
certain tribes or island kind of religions that will have their gods as like literal physical
ornaments. They'll have like this is, I think when Captain Cook, the work that discovered
Australia, when they were disgusted at the idea of, might not be Captain Cook, but they discovered
the idea that like when they're getting taught Christianity, where can, where is your god?
Like we can hold our god. Where's your god? Like show us your god. And I find it interesting
because I was like, wow, that's such a primitive idea of a god. Like that's so, like obviously
God's not there. God's up in the sky or something. Like is the mythology that I was taught. But what's
interesting is the Old Testament clearly makes out, well first of all, there are times when God
is there as like a physical being, but then he's a temple deity. He's literally a temple deity. He's,
he resides within the temple. And like that and that was what was so symbolic about their
the curtain splitting when Jesus supposedly died on the cross. Because he was a temple deity. So
it wasn't like he wasn't up in heaven. This is what like I went through ministry college
and I was even taught this, like that he was a god dwelled within the most holy place. But I never,
I never clicked that he was like a, like that, like he was a temple deity. Like I never clicked
that he was like part of this, like he was actually in there. Like that was confusing
to me. Yeah. And when you think about it, the fact that he was originally the son of a different
deity makes sense of that. He has a body, the other sons of God have bodies too.
And in Exodus at one point it says that the Lord is a man of war.
And judges, he's right there in battle next to Judah. They lose to iron chariots apparently.
And and can we can we read that? Yeah, as a judges.
I'll pull up in my trusty sure.
Trusty Bible. It's gonna take me ages to find it, isn't it?
Judges 118. 119. 119. Yeah.
So this is a classic. This is a classic of, of atheist talking points. I think there was
an even a website called iron chariots, which, you know, documented. I remember it.
Was that Millett Matt De La Hunty's website? Like he said he credit that it was like a wiki.
He credit it was like a wiki or something. I don't know. So judges 119.
The Lord was with the men of Judah. They took possession of the hill country,
but they were unable to drive the people from the planes because they had iron chariots.
Yeah. The Lord is with them. They could not do something because they had iron chariots.
That's right. And to us, that sounds absolutely nonsensical. Right. Maybe in the context at the
time that, yeah, that was, they were just saying, our God's better than your God.
You know, your God's like, or, you know, like our God's with us and your God's with you and,
yeah. Some try to get around this by saying, well, God was with Judah, but he wasn't really
there. I'm like, then how can it be with them? You see,
well, again, it's, it's looking, it's taking the idea of we have about God now and injecting
it back into the Old Testament. I had an argument with someone recently on Twitter. Again, I should
stop arguing with people on Twitter, but I can't help myself. But I noticed you didn't have a Twitter
by the way. I tried to tag you and I was like, wow, smart man. Oh, you do? I don't use it very often.
Oh, very smart. Like it's honestly, it's gotten so much worse too lately. But
one of the things I, is that they were saying that God doesn't have a,
God is spirit, doesn't have a body. And I said, well, how did God walk with Adam and even the
garden? What did that mean? There you go. So like we have this, like I actually went through a bit
of the Bible a couple of nights ago in preparation for this. And, and I was looking at it as like,
you have a God that walks in the garden. You have a God that hides his face. You have a God that,
you know, it's it to Moses. He speaks from his mouth. He sits on a throne. And, and he, and also
like, and this is, this is something that's super interesting as well. And this, this is what makes
me, this is what makes me think that maybe God was made in our image and we're not made in
his image. I think it was the other way around is because, you know, God also gets angry. He
feels jealousy. He gets depressed. He, he worries. God worries. How can you know everything and
worry like that? When I worry, it's like, what if this, he worries, he, he feels hatred and love.
He feels happiness. And he thinks about things. So like Isaiah 55-8, he's literally thinking about
things. He like ponders things. He's trying to, and to me, this just screams, humans creating
what they think, you know, humans creating an idea of God. And that, and this whole idea of like,
well, of course God has a father. If we're made in his image, of course he has a family.
Why would he create us in his image? And then just like, but you're going to be operating in a
completely different system. You're going to, you know, you're going to have a partner, you know,
and this, this all goes into it. I know we didn't prepare to talk about this, but there is a lot
of people who talk about Asherah, God's wife. Oh yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That, that is a whole other
like conversation. But do you know much or anything about Asherah? Yeah, she's like the mother of
about 70 children of El. And it does, it does correspond to the 70 or, or,
or some of us will put it 72. But the, but this is, but this is similar to the table of nations
and like 70 nations. Yeah. And so I don't think that's a coincidence. So you got each son of El
being given a, a nation. One of those sons of El is of course Yahweh, the Lord.
So that's what it looks like to me.
Asherah was hot apparently. Vishanti had a really good question. Where in the Bible specifically
are you getting the idea of an Omni God or one God? That seems to be the root of some of your
critiques. Christianity, that's the, that's where I get it from Christianity. It's not
from the Bible. It's from Christianity. And it's from what I was taught. And it's what apologists
are still teaching that there is one God and every other God is not a real God. It's like an idol
or something. But, but yeah, it's not from the Bible. It's not from a critical thought process.
It's, but it's still what gets taught by a lot of people today. That's still what people talk about.
Yeah. Yeah. Do you have any more slides on the God's Father?
Let's get to the next one.
All right. So once, yeah, once, once Samuel 26 19. Now, therefore, let my Lord, the King
hear the words of his servant. If it is the Lord who has stirred up against you,
sorry, stirred you up against me, may he accept an offering, but if it is mortals,
may they be cursed before the Lord. For they have driven me out today from my share in the
heritage of the Lord saying, go serve other gods. So look at this right here. So you've got
someone complaining. This is a, this is about David and Saul. So David's fleeing.
Saul's trying to hunt down David. And so what's going on here is, is that
it's like, okay, you're going to force me to go into someone else's territory outside of the Lord's
heritage. You see, I'm like, wait a minute now. Hold on. Hold on a minute.
Because we're supposed to believe these people were always monotheists, right?
Then how do we explain this? You've got, you've got this guy saying,
you're going to force me into another territory and serve other gods outside of the heritage of the
Lord. How do we explain this? Well, I can explain it if, because it fits perfectly with Deuteronomy
32. It's consistent with that. You see, the Lord inherited Israel from the other God.
And so of course, this would be an issue if you go step foot in the territory,
in the territory of another deity. So there you go. The heritage once again.
Hmm. Yeah.
It's so,
it's so interesting. I want to ask you, do you have any more slides? How many more slides do you have?
What do you have any more slides? I just want to check. That's the end of it.
Good. Because I wanted to actually ask you, I'm not good, not as in like, good. It's great.
Awesome presentation. But I wanted to ask you, when you found this, did you look at,
do you, you know, go straight to Frank Turrick's YouTube channel and try and find an answer? Or
like, how did, what are the apologists saying to this? I did not take
apologetic websites seriously then, and even before that. And I already knew they're not
going to have a good, they're not going to have an answer for this. It wasn't even really a thought.
I'm like, yeah, pointless. I really don't think, I really don't think there's any way to run from
this. It's very clear. It's not ambiguous. It's not hard to understand. He's inheriting from another
God. Why did David, why was David afraid of, if he got, he was forced outside of Israel because
of his conflict with Saul, yet the warship of our deities. You got the two, you got the two,
the two mules or something like that, or whatever, the two cartloads of Israelite soil.
I mean, I mean, yeah, mules carrying Israelite soil. I mean, come on. It's all a part of the
heritage scenario or connected with that. So it seems quite clear cut, but also these are
a lot of people who somehow twist Jesus explicitly saying, this generation will not pass away until
all these things happen. They somehow make, they somehow try and get that to work, and they convince
a lot of people. Have you looked at any, what are some good critiques against this? Have you
looked at any critiques that actually have that he gone, maybe that, maybe that does work or
I haven't found any other interpretation convincing
when Jesus says that the return is supposed to happen. It's going to happen within their lifetime.
So clearly some, some of them are supposed to be alive still when the return is the second
coming. So how is that supposed to work? I mean, they're not going to be living
2,000 years later or later than that. If we're supposed to think that it's supposed to happen
in the future, that doesn't make any sense. It's nonsense. I've spent countless hours on a
video on this very subject. It's not out yet. You can check out the draft on Patreon, but
it's a, I've went a deep, deep into the, the excuses that apologizes for using and it's just
incredible. But, but regarding the, the, the God's father or God's heritage question,
have you looked at any like scholars that maybe, you know, I've respected not like the Frank
Turks of the world. Sorry, Frank, but, but like, you know, critical scholars who maybe have a
different interpretation, have you found anything like that? There are some that do. And, and, and
I looked into that a little bit way back then, but I did not find those answers convincing.
A lot of scholars are very convinced and for very logical and obvious reasons that
obviously Yahweh was originally El Son. And, and even after the Masoretic Redaction occurred,
that the idea of God having a heritage obviously slipped in several places, as I've shown some
of that earlier in the slides. So not, not all of it was redacted out. So, I mean, I don't see how
anyone can try to get around that. The two, the two mules, carrying soil, carrying soil to bring it,
to have some kind of mobile Israel into another country. So that way you don't have to worship
another deity. Yeah. And you got David being afraid of stepping foot outside of the heritage.
Okay, you're not, you don't inherit from yourself.
That doesn't make any sense. Like, a lot of this, I think gets swept under the rug for a lot of
Christians and, and people is they just say, it was different back then. It was the Old Testament.
It was weird. It was a wacky time. It was Old Testament God, where he took his belt off and
belted his children. Like, it was, it was, it was different. But when you really think about it,
like, I mean, look at it through a historical lens, which is what you do on your channel,
that it becomes incredibly more interesting, in my opinion. And it's like, this was the problem I
had with them. When I was deconstructing my faith, I, I was looking at the theory of evolution
and creationism. And I was trying to make sense of it all. And the, what really bothered me is,
at some stage, the questions that could have, that hadn't been answered yet in evolution,
well, not even an evolution, but like, like, where did we come from? Like, how did a biogenesis happen?
There's like a really interesting conversation there. There's like, okay, there's, you know,
there's the, there's the, was it, there's the, there's a type of a hypothesis that, that, that
has been kind of debunked, but it actually works in a lab, they can actually work it. But they don't
think that's the actual hypothesis. But there's all these different realms of things that you can
research and be interested in, and, and us and read up on on study. And like, you could spend
ages just looking into that question. And there's lots of research. But when you get to a question
that doesn't make sense for God or the Bible or creationism, the answer is just God did it.
Or we can ask him when we, when we meet him, we can ask why he did that when we meet him, or
his ways are above our ways. And it's like, oh, this is boring. Like this is, that's such a boring
answer. Like why, like it's, it just shuts down. It's like, okay, well, if, if, if your answer is
God did it, then I'm just going to, I'm going to look at the information on the other side to
understand what, at least what they're saying. I don't agree with it. And then I end up agreeing with
another thing. Oh, were you finishing your thought there? No, no, no, no, sorry. Yeah, go.
That's fine. Um,
one of the things that some of them try to do to get around God's inheritance,
they'll say, actually, that's proof of the Trinity. I'm like, oh, whoa, this is really absurd.
Okay. So you're telling me
that God inherits from himself because, okay, he's his own father just as Jesus is supposedly God
now. So that's, so now he's his own father too. So that's the logic here. You gotta, you gotta put
that in the Hebrew Bible. You gotta, you gotta reinterpret the Hebrew Bible in a Christian lens.
Don't you see? I'm like, no, let's start. Judaism doesn't have a Trinity. So this is a
Christological reinterpretation of the Hebrew Bible that's massively anachronistic, incorrect,
absurd. The Trinity is not the answer. It just makes it worse. Now it's oxymoronic,
self-contradictory. It makes no sense. No.
There's also like something that, and this ties greatly into our next talking point, but
one thing that Judaism doesn't have is hell, right? I learned that on the Big Bang Theory.
Yeah. And I was like, well, I think Howard says, Jews don't have hell. And I was like, well, that's
interesting. Well, but they have the Bible. It's all in the Bible. And then I went looking in the
Bible, and it's not really in the Bible except for the New Testament. So,
so yeah, so you, you actually had a great fear of hell. You're telling me, can you tell us a
little bit about that and how you kind of learned more about hell and where you're at with that?
Yeah, it was more like, I was like, I want to, I want to thoroughly, I guess, prove my,
prove to myself like, okay, that I don't need to worry about hell. It's like,
I need to make sure, I need to look into it, look into the claim. And, and when I realized that God
as a father, that was a big moment for me. And I'm like, it's just wiped, wiped the slate clean
for me right there. I'm like, I was not considering it anymore. That just went out of my mind
prominently. Okay. How can I take their claim seriously when their own book says I got as a
father? Forget hell, forget all that other stuff. This is ridiculous. Your own book says God as a
father. So your monotheism is false. It's false. And your own book.
So if, well, just to, just to try and push back a little bit on that, is when you, when you say,
is, could it be possible that, that there, like polytheism is true, but God Yahweh is the,
well, sorry, the God of the Bible is the most high, the God of Israel is the most high. Is,
because that's still be possible that, that, that yeah, that there are other gods, but they're just
lesser gods. No, no, no. What I'm saying is I, is that God is the son of how Eleon, how Eleon,
so he is the son of the most high. So in this case, they were originally separate.
And yeah, I mean, there are other times it's, it's combined. Yeah. There are times it's combined.
And, and that may give the impression that they're the same God, even though they're not.
It's just a title is transferred to El Son, the Lord, or Yahweh, because now they're trying to
make Yahweh a bigger God, we supreme God, and then eventually the only God. So that's the general
idea. Yeah. So, so, so, oh, so it was seeing the, like the very human element of the story that made
you realize that, well, if there's a human element here in like the very nature of who, who God is,
that means that I don't need to worry about these other ideas of hell that kind of developed later
in, in the New Testament. And, and, and Exem, Exem music said Zoroastrian origins. And I think that,
that's correct, isn't it? There's the heart, the origins of hell are probably influenced from
Zoroastrianism and some Platonic, some Plato, Platonic Greek thought, maybe.
I, someone else, someone in the check, maybe, maybe, yeah, yeah,
yeah, that's not something I was pointing on discussing. But I think that, I think that
if it looks of it, it could be, it could be. But the, I have to look into the Zoroastrian
parallels again. I haven't looked into that in some time. So I'm not exactly,
this is not exactly on my mind at night. But yeah, hell, hell is clearly, it has its origins
outside, outside of Judaism. It's, it's not, it's not a, it's not a thing in Judaism. So that would
be about right. So did you, are you like, have you overcome your fear? Like, did you overcome it
like straight away? Go on. Not, not even, I'm not conservative at all. Yeah. I said, I said this
on your channel, I think, but the idea of hell is kind of, it's become like interesting to me in
like a, like a video game sense. Like, oh, I wonder what the different ideas, like I've got this,
this book up there. I haven't started yet called Atlas of the Devil. And I think it's all the
different ideas of hell and the afterlife and the devil. And it's interesting to me to think about
that there's all these different perspectives of where you end up after you die or where your
consciousness goes. And I just find it really fascinating. Like, what if, what if, like, what
if hell was real? That would be kind of incredible. Like, and I actually find more
interested in it than I am fear or anything. So yeah, it's a, so, so after that happened,
you know, do you have people like come onto your channel that still deal with the fear of hell or
still going through the fear of hell at all? Well, I've never, I haven't really asked that question.
And I think it's more like, I interview scholars that are atheists and scholars that are believers
and, and, and I would assume that the believers believe in a hell of some kind,
they don't exist. But it's not something that's really, that so far hasn't really come up.
But there's an interesting question, but it's not something that's really
been discussed so far. The origin, the origins of hell, I mean, yeah.
Yeah, but, but not specifically in that way.
I'm thinking about, because just because it was so fun on my other channel, I did a
hell cast where we, we had a bunch of people who had deconstructed their fear of hell or
were deconstructing or still had fears of hell, but we talked about hell for a while,
and it was really good. And I thought, oh, you could do something similar for deep drinks,
if anyone is, we'd be interested in that, let us know in the comments, because I think it was
really fun to talk about hell, because there are a lot of people who still struggle with,
with that fear, even after they don't believe it anymore, which is super strange,
not strange for them, but I mean, strange that the human psyche does that. Like,
I think that if I was in a, you know, you know, when people are in life threatening
situations, they might cry out to God, even though they don't actually believe in God,
it's just like a, it's like a, it's like an emotional response to, it's, it's the emotional
party, right? You might even cry out to your parents might let mommy like hell, you know,
because you're just so, and you're an adult, but that just might be the something that happens
in really traumatic situations. So, but, but then we need to think about it rationally,
you know, like rationally, it doesn't seem to make sense. So, before we jump into the comparative
mythology, one thing I wanted to kind of touch on was the, the, the beautiful, beautiful piece
of garbage, which is the Zeitgeist movie. I was a, I was a Zeitgeist watcher. I remember my mom
going, what are you listening to? Cause it has that guy's voice in 2008, you'll be required to,
you know, carry an ID, wherever you go or whatever. And I remember watching the Zeitgeist
movie as a Christian and not being, and being like, well, this is interesting. I didn't,
I wasn't fully convinced of it, but it talks a lot about comparative mythology. It's, it's,
it's very conspiratorial. It's, you know, steel beams don't melt, you know, if Jeff
Hill doesn't melt steam, steel beams, non-eleven truth are kind of, it was like a, it was a trail
blazer in that kind of community. Can you talk, talk to us a little bit about how you first
discovered Zeitgeist, what you thought of it, and then how that led you to be more interested in
comparative religion? I remember hearing about those alleged
parallels between Horace and Jesus when I was a child. So this goes way back for me, but
it's not until a bit later that I actually watched it, although I think I've watched clips of it
a lot earlier than that, if, if I remember correctly.
What's interesting about it is, is actually these claims are very old now. They go back to
a man named Geralt Massie. Geralt was the one that's responsible.
He's, he's at least the earliest person that I know of that started this nonsense,
that Horace and Jesus are similar. And just so I can remember correctly when he lived,
just looking up real quick, there we go. Yeah, he lived in, yeah, he lived throughout the majority of
the, of the, of the 19th century. He died in the early 20th century, the age of 79.
He died in, he died in 1907. And he, he pushed this ridiculous pseudo historical view that
of these other, and he was like ruthlessly attacked by, and understandably so by academics
that were exposing him as being, as pushing out piles of nonsense.
Yeah, so a lot of people, a lot of people don't realize that this comes from this guy, Geralt Massie.
And Geralt pushes these, he pushed these views, is baseless. And there's no evidence that Horace
had 12 disciples. It's no evidence he was crucified. It's no evidence that he rose from the dead.
You know, the first, the first thing that occurred to me was like, why are we talking about Horace?
Why not talk about his father Osiris, who did actually die and rise
again, according to the myth? So at least that has a genuine parallel in some way.
Why are we getting so much attention to Horace and nonsense about that? When,
when his father is staring right at you, right at you, right at your face, I'm like,
say over there, there, there he is. There's a guy that actually dies and rises again. But for some
reason, no, no, screw Osiris, we got to focus on Horace. So I'm like, okay. Oh, and then, oh,
it gets, it gets more ridiculous. Okay. They said, why don't you see that set sounds like Satan.
So I just start making a connection. I'm like, Oh, please, please, no, please.
Yeah, the thing that got me was the sun rays with crown of thorns when you look up to the sun.
Oh, my eyes, snow. So just to give everyone some context as quickly, the Zeitgeist movie of the
early 2008 or something, put out a bunch of, you know, really popularized this notion that,
that, that Jesus was probably the, this was the birth of the Jesus didn't exist, the popularity.
And one of the things they do is they call to attention that the similarities between Horace
and Jesus. And these is, this is what the movie says. Horace and Jesus were both born of a virgin,
both on December 25th, both heralded by a star in the East or Sirius, brackets and mornings,
morning star, three wise men for Jesus, three solid deities for Horace,
the 12 disciples, 12 disciples, age of baptism, 30 age of baptism, 30 amazing feats,
walked on water, healed the sick, Horace also walked on water, healed the sick,
both died and Jesus died crucifixion on a cross, Horace died crucifixion on a tree,
post, post death events. So Jesus went to hell, resurrected after 35 hours, covering
three separate days. And Horace went to hell, resurrected after three days, and they both
resurrected, resurrected. So they were all the similarities, but most of them are huge stretches
of the imagination, right? Yeah, I'm going to share this, I decided to add this to the slides,
just to show the audience all the nonsense so they can see it. Here it is, I got it up. Okay,
so it's not just Jesus and Horace, this comes, this is directly from the film, Zeitgeist, okay,
you got myth, you got lies that they're talking about, Mithra, Krishna, Arthas and Dionysus,
loads of false parallels here, nonsense and are not true. These are, this is crap,
these are false, bologna. See, so what we're supposed to believe, this is what they're driving at,
that over a long period of time or thousands of years, the same God was copied faithfully
by different cultures. That's essentially what's going on here. And according to this,
Horace is the oldest one, right? So I guess the other ones are supposed to be based on Horace,
all the other ones, one form or the other. Now, when we look at, like, I guess a question
would be asked, is there genuine parallels at all anywhere here, even if it's not listed?
Is there any, excuse me, is there any, yeah, I got one, they're all created by people,
that's a huge similarity. That works, but, but the size, is there real parallels in the mythos?
Well, I don't know, you tell me. Right, right. Yeah, that's the question they'll be asking.
Let's look more at Dionysus, I'm more interested looking there if I am with the others for the
genuine parallels. There really aren't much or any of the other ones. Dionysus is more interesting
because he is a god of wine. And Jesus turns water into wine. So in some sense, they kind of got
a parallel there. I want to be very careful with that. Dionysus does appear for some kind of trial
with Pynpheus. Not necessarily for the same reasons that Jesus did before Pilate.
Doesn't quite go the same way. Pynpheus gets killed, by the way, brutally, if I remember,
yeah, yeah, yeah, he was killed, he was killed brutally. He died some kind of brutal death.
Pilate obviously doesn't have that happen to him in the gospel, so that's not a parallel.
And Dionysus does get torn apart, and then he gets put back together, just like Osiris does.
He gets torn apart and put back together. Now Zeus came down in the form of,
I think it was an eagle, I don't remember, I don't remember, could have been that or a different
animal. But he made it with a simile. And I want to make sure that I didn't
misremember that. Okay, yeah, it's simile, yeah. Okay, so he, it's not really a virgin birth. Okay,
this is what Zeus did a lot in Greek mythology. That's what he did. He did that with a lot of women.
He was known for that. That's not atypical of him. Okay, so that's not really a virgin birth.
It ain't a virgin birth, period. It's not. So this doesn't work. Oh, that does take me to
one more thing. I've got to talk about this. I even saw somebody bring this up in the chat.
And I just laugh endlessly. I'm sorry, but I'm not sorry. The absurd idea that Jesus sounds like
Zeus. Okay, so this is a pseudo linguistics. Oh, Jesus means Hail Zeus. Don't you see?
Yeah, I think I remember a little bit of this. Like, no, no, no, no, no. Jesus. Okay,
that's in the Septuagint people. Okay, it's in there. We've got Greek text, Jewish text,
using Jesus before the New Testament. So Jesus is translating a Yehoshua or Joshua
into Greek. That's all it is. It has nothing, it has no relationship to Zeus.
Oh, but it sounds like Zeus. I'm like, oh, okay. Because the Yehsus, it's the Zeus part, right?
That sort of rhymes. At least it sounds like Jesus or it sounds like Yehsus. Like, no,
that doesn't count. Well, were you ever convinced by the, well, just with the Zeitgeist film,
first of all, I was, I was a, I bought into some of the 9-11 Truth stuff at the start until I
started developing critical thinking skills. And especially from watching the Aethids experience,
actually, the Aethids experience, I wasn't on 9-11 Truth of Them, but the Aethids experience
when I started watching it, it was really interesting to watch people pull apart
arguments and explain what fallacy was and everything like that. But so good, so helpful.
But so did you ever buy into any of the claims of the Zeitgeist film or were you smart enough
to think, no, these are silly? And then did you ever, especially, did you ever become a Jesus mythicist?
Interesting questions. I'll say
when I heard about it, I kind of looked the other way for a bit. Then I decided, you know,
I need to look into this because I'm like, I wasn't sure if there's any truth to it.
I keep being told these things are true.
So at some point, I'm like, I want a source.
Nobody could give it to me. I'm like, okay, we got a problem. Somebody made some stuff up.
Okay, somebody made, and the somebody was Geralt Messi.
That's the somebody who made it up. So that idiot made that stuff up.
Horace is not born of a virgin. Some people say, Oh, yes, he was. I'm like,
okay. All right, so here's the deal. When Isis put together, put Osiris back together after
set, killed him and then threw his body parts everywhere and just dispersed his body parts.
Isis put Osiris back together, but she couldn't find his phallus.
So she decided to create an artificial phallus.
So sorry to burst your bubble, anyone that believes that Horace is Jesus, but
Osiris and Isis had sex. Okay. And so that doesn't make Isis a virgin.
He used an artificial phallus to carry it out and it was done. That's it. That's not a virgin.
That's come on. Yeah. So and was this what's what spurred your interest into your comparative
mythology or looking at, because you're really interested now in Egyptian and Mesopotamian
belief systems of religions? Is this what spurred your interest in that? Or are you already interested
in that kind of stuff? I think I was, yeah, I was already interested in it. I was I'm also
interested in the ancient European religions as well. And the proto-Indo-European stuff.
So I'm very interested in the research done and all that. And there are genuine parallels between
Egyptian myth and the Bible. Yeah. Well, the Israelites were living in millions were living
in Egypt, right? Under Pharaoh before they escaped back to Egypt. So like, of course, they would have
no, but yeah, that was my next question is, are there any genuine parallels? I know that
your friends with Derek from a myth vision and huge at the moment, for the last year or so,
has been not conformant Neil and Derek from myth vision, proposing ideas that they've
read on the study and found themselves about parallels between Greek myths and other myths
and the myths that we see, the ideas that we see in the Bible. Have you found any? Are you in
disagreement anywhere with those guys? Do you agree with some things, not others? Have you found your
own parallels? And so what I will say is, is that, let's take for instance, and I did, and I did,
I did some, I did a couple episodes with Gary Greenberg on this, the Egyptian parallels
to the Bible. And he outlined several parallels, like one of the Egyptian gods actually speaks,
and by speaking, he creates by speaking. And so this is similar to what we see in the book of
Genesis, when God speaks, and when he speaks, it happens. By the power of his words,
things get created. And we see that, and we do see that in the Egyptian religion.
So I'm more interested in looking at the Egyptian parallels with the Hebrew Bible
than the New Testament. That's because there's, to me, there's more of a connection there.
And trying to make that work with the New Testament, I think, has got problems.
But trying to, but understanding that the Hebrew, that the Egyptian religion influenced the Hebrew
Bible, the Canaanite religion influenced the Hebrew Bible over Mesopotamian, Mesopotamian
religions influencing the Hebrew Bible as well, makes better sense. So all of them are influencing
the Hebrew Bible in their own ways. So what are some of those parallels?
Yeah, so if we look at the Mesopotamian religion, they have their own flood myth, for instance,
like in the epic about the houses and the epic of Gobi Mesh, where you got
at the houses being warned by one God that there's a flood coming.
Because another one's going to start it. And so he builds a boat, gets people on there, animals,
just like when Noah. Now, what's interesting is in Egypt, we don't have an equivalent to
a flood myth like that in Egypt, at least not exactly. What they've got is a God called New.
And what New does is he carries a boat and raises it over the waters, and the gods are on the boat.
So you could try to link that with the biblical flood myth, but I think it's more obvious that
the Mesopotamian one fits better, because you've got somebody building a boat to ride out the flood,
people are boarding it, animals are boarding it. One God warned him, no one's starting it. So
it makes better sense that the Book of Genesis is being primarily inspired from Mesopotamian flood myth
here, more similar. And when you look at the Greek one, for instance, the Greek religion, you got
the Dukalian flood. So Dukalian, he and Pira, his wife, they go inside a box,
and they ride out the flood, a box. Okay, now yeah, he's warned by Prometheus the flood is coming,
as Zeus is the one starting the flood. But the Greek one is very different. You can see the
differences. It doesn't copy the Mesopotamian faithfully. It's left some details out, changed some
of it. So the Mesopotamian one parallels the biblical version better. That's my point.
And that actually is an issue I have with those that try to date the Hebrew Bible later,
because some are attempting to date the Hebrew Bible way later in the first millennium BCE,
they have dated it to the third century BCE. I think that doesn't make any sense to me. I'm not
convinced of that. And it parallels, again, as I said a moment ago, it parallels the Mesopotamian
one better. Anybody can look that up and find out for themselves.
I was going to ask, what do apologists say to these parallels that you've discovered?
Well, I mean,
just so we're clear, is that like I?
Oh, not that you discovered, but what have you discovered that apologists have said?
Oh, yes. Okay.
Some will say something that's very absurd. I think that might go back to Justin Marder,
who said something ridiculous like this, if I remember correctly.
Anyway, some will say, well, this is about this is all part of Satan's grand deception,
don't you see? He knew that Jesus was coming. I know. Okay, so yeah, he created all these.
Yeah, he also put all the fossils in the ground. So he, yeah, he created all these fake religions
in advance to see everybody before the truth came out. That's essentially what they're saying.
I'm like, I'm on. Oh, God, I love that so much. It's really funny. I'm like, this is okay.
That's, that's some massive desperation. Yeah, every other God is silly made up nonsense,
but not your God. Your God is real. Right. Yeah, not silly at all.
So this is, so I guess we're coming up to the end of the conversation now, but I wanted to bring
something up that was just totally random that I kind of discovered. So when I was looking up
the verses that you sent me and we went through, I was looking up the word father in the Bible,
I think I was a father. And, and I come across the verses of honor your father and honor your
mother and your father. And I realized something, I'm not sure if I've, I think I've been told this
and I'm just re remembering it. So it's not an original idea, but you know how in, in Ephesians
623, let me just quickly turn, turn here. It says Ephesians 6, much quicker than New Testament.
As I say that
6223, sorry. Children, obey your parents in the Lord for this is right. Honor your father and mother,
which is the first commandment with a promise that it will go well with you and that you will
enjoy long life on the earth. Okay. So do you, what do you, what do you make of that verse?
Obey your mother and father. It's the first commandment with a promise that it will go
well with you and that you will enjoy a long life on the earth.
Yeah, I think it's, I mean, I think one can say that in some sense makes sense because I'm like,
okay, listening to your parents, well, obviously. But on the other hand, it's like it's twisting it
by incorporating the, the God, the fear, the fear of God into it. So it's linked to that.
Yeah. It's like, oh, if you obey your parents, you see you'll have a long life on the earth. So in
other words, it's like an analogy of, well, obeying God leads to that too. That's the general idea.
Well, I have an idea and I even asked ChatGPT and it didn't pick this up. And so I tried to
convince it that I was right. But anyway, tell me what everyone thinks. And this isn't my idea,
I heard it somewhere, but I just re-remembered it. It's the first commandment with a promise
that you'll live a long life. Okay. Remember back in Deuteronomy 2118, if someone has a
stubborn or rebellious son who does not obey his father or mother and will not listen to them and
they will, to them when they discipline him, his father and mother shall take hold of him
and bring him to the elders at the gate of his town. They shall say to the elders,
this son of ours is stubborn and rebellious. He will not obey us. He's a glutton and a drunkard.
Then all the men of the town are to stone him to death. You must purge the evil from among you.
All Israel will hear of it and be afraid. So this is, I believe, commandments directly from God.
I think this is from God. But anyway, it's there in the Old Testament. What I think this is saying
is you're not going to be stoned to death if you're on your mother and father. If you're a
rebellious and stubborn son, you might be stoned to death. So what the New Testament is doing is
it's reworking and saying honor your father and mother, which is the first commandment with a
promise. So it's putting a positive spin on it. If you do that, you won't be stoned to death.
And I was like, that is such a more sinister twist if you look at it like that. Do you see that?
Do you see that? Or do you think I'm stretching? Actually, I think you have a good point.
That's weird, right? I have to admit that did not occur to me. And I think about it,
I think that is a better reading. Because I read it like how you read it when I was a Christian.
Oh yeah, like honor your father and mother. Yeah, it's good. But it's like,
why does it say commandment with a promise? And I was like, interesting. I want to look at
is that the first commandment with a promise? Dan McClellan, you need to do a little one of
your short videos on this, because is that the first commandment with a promise? I'd really
like to know about more about this. This is super interesting. Yeah, I think that needs to be looked
into some more. And this isn't go ahead. Oh, no, no, say what you're saying.
Now, Ephesians is a disputed letter. There are some that are going to claim it's fake,
but there are others I believe it's authentic. But oh, okay. But Philemon
in the letter to the Philemon slavery appears to be not just appears to be literally is being
condemned by Paul, because of, you know, giving his slave on a Simon to Philemon, something like that.
He asks not to be he asks, except no longer as a slave, but a brother in Christ, which is
the verse they used to say, look, all the slavery is bad now. And but I don't think that's what
they're saying. Yeah, so Paul has no problem engaging in a horrific immoral acts or
doing morally questionable things or engaging in morally questionable things.
So if one were to go with he wrote Ephesians, but it doesn't, but it's not, I don't think it should
be so surprising that he would insinuate or morbid insinuate that a child that that disobeys
his or her parents could be executed. As you were just talking about. So
it's in Paul persecuted the followers of Jesus before his conversion, apparent conversion. And
and he killed people, arrested people or whatever. He was he did horrible things. So
hmm, it's in his character. Hmm. It's in his character. Yeah, Paul was a
was a pretty, pretty weird. I think I think we didn't have Paul. We might not have
Christianity as we know it today. Oh, yeah, yeah. Yeah, it's very, you know, very, very interesting
guy. Before we get to the super chats and Vishanti, I've seen your super chat and I read it out. I
just want to quickly shout out the deep drinks patrons. So thank you to all the supporters
and especially thank you to Jason Rollins, Matthew Monga, Digital Hammurabi and skeptics and scandal
Eric. These are the Archbishop's of the Archbishop's of page of deep drinks. It's been a couple of
weeks. I'm rusty, but thank you guys for supporting this channel. I really do appreciate it. And of
course, Jacob's channel. Let me just quickly share the screen. Do you have anything coming up or
what should people go watch if they haven't seen your channel before? Actually, I don't know what
they should watch. They should go watch the episode with me as well, which is where is it? It's
somewhere isn't live. Oh, live. Yes. So your channel is just filled with like good stuff. And
also hi to everyone that's watching from over on History Valley. There it is. Leaving Christian.
Yeah, go watch this episode. It's a really cool episode. You hear more about my my journey and
my experiences. And I'm wondering interviewed there. But do you have any other episodes that you
think people should go check out if they're interested in what they saw today?
Well, I think they'll they'll find the videos I did with Gary Greenberg to be
to be good. Jesus before the Gospels of Barnarmine is also very good too.
And and and also Dan McClellan and the video Yalway and El the Two Gods of Israel of ancient
Israel. Yeah, that's also a really good one that I recommend. Awesome. All right. Well, thank you
so much for coming on. We got a couple of super chats and questions. One of the super chats is
from Vishanti. Does Jacob think Alex? Thank you so much for the five little super chat.
Does Jacob think Alexander Bislop's the two Babylon's is better or worse than Macy's
or Messi's? I don't know how to say that. I cannot. I cannot call that because I
haven't read it. Oh, okay. Thank you. Thank you so much. Vishanti. Is it a good book?
What are you? What are your thoughts? I want to hear your thoughts, really.
Maybe maybe ducked out. But thank you so much for the
Bong James Bong. Great job. Great combo. Awesome. Well, thank you everyone for coming out. It's
been a great conversation and we want to keep it under 90 minutes today and it's it's been good
to be back. And next week we have Dr. Kip Davis talking doing his second part of the episode
we did a few weeks ago, and which is part of his course of true Israelite religions,
the early Israelite religions. So that'll be really good. So thanks for checking this out, guys.
And actually, one last question, Jacob, and I haven't done this in a while, but I will
ask it as we're closing out is this used to be a standard on deep drinks. I've done,
you know, we've got a hundred and something episodes now. And I haven't done it for a while is
what is the most plausibly true religion that you don't believe in?
What is the most plausible religion that I do not believe in?
Yeah, plausibly true. So if you had to another way to think about this is the magic genie
popped into existence and said, one of the world religions is true.
Good luck. And then just popped out of existence. And you just had to guess which one is the most
likely to be true. Which one would you guess? I don't know. I don't even know how I could answer it.
I can tell you, most people pick Buddhism. And which I feel like is slippery because a lot of
them are atheists and they just know that Buddhism has doesn't have a God and a lot of its belief
systems. But but I'm a fan of like the Hare Christians, I think are pretty cool. Like,
they're pretty peaceful as a religion. I don't know if I'd want to do everything that they do,
but they seem nice. Yeah. Yeah, do you have any any that or any that if you could choose to be true?
You would any afterlife that you could choose to be true? Would you would you choose
what which religions afterlife would you choose?
So it's not something I thought of either. That would take some thought.
You seem like a really well, like you think about things before you answer them, which I
really respect. So that's good. All right. Well, next time, Jacob's on, he'll have time to think
about that and we'll and we can answer that. But see you all guys later and see you next time. Bye.
