Scarlett, previously known as Jeffrey McColl, has gone back to their transgender identity.
You may have seen Scarlett as the ex-gay anti-LGBT activist on the movie Pray Away.
There are new people taking up the torch.
I lived transgender and I left everything, followed the Lord.
They preached that they spent their life drinking and drugging and trying to seduce other men,
living as a transgender person until they met Jesus.
Now Scarlett has gone back to their transgender identity,
stating on their Twitter,
I wanted to post here before some people found out other ways.
I have went back to my life as Scarlett.
I never interned to hurt or disappoint anyone.
I felt like no matter what I chose, someone would get hurt.
That's a horrible spot to be in.
I felt like I tried to fight for so long.
Please remember that I am just a human being and didn't ask for any of these things that I have went through.
I didn't ask to feel this way.
Please show me some compassion as a human being,
just as I have always tried to show everyone else compassion and understanding.
Now for anyone that has even a little bit of empathy
and hasn't been brainwashed by Christian evangelicalism,
this is actually a tragic story.
But it's not tragic for the same reasons that Christians are calling it tragic.
It's tragic because in 2023,
people are still struggling to identify with how they truly feel.
Some of the Christians that have left comments have stated things like,
Don't give up brother, your identity is in Christ.
No hate, only love.
But this is a demonic attack and it needs to be fully given over to God.
You as a human being and image bearer of God are so loved.
Please don't turn from Jesus because of this.
It's sad because I've used you as an inspiration for my relationship with God.
Jeffrey, you are not that person.
I'll pray for repentance and perseverance.
Oh my sweet brother,
thank you for your bravery and vulnerability in sharing.
Jesus protect this man.
Lift him up and let him see your face and be kissed by your grace.
Oh Jeffrey, I don't think this will bring you the peace you think it will.
Praying for you friend.
There is a way that seems right to a man, but it ends in the way of death.
Dear Jeffrey, whatever you're feeling right now, I know this for sure.
Jesus loves you.
He'll do anything to win you back.
Think about what it might feel like to identify one way inside
and feel like you can't even express that because it might hurt your God's feelings.
To every day, wake up and have to put on a mask of something that you know is not true.
And why does this person feel like this?
Because they have been convinced by the stories written about a 2000 year old teacher.
Not only that, they've been convinced of the stories written about a 2000 year old teacher
as interpreted by the church.
For LGBT folks struggling with their identity and their Christian faith,
I'm sure Scarlett has done a lot to show them more unnecessary confusion.
But I'm not angry at Scarlett,
because Scarlett is a victim of the same brain rot that has been
taught from the pulpit of many churches across the world.
If you are a member of the LGBT community and you're finding that your faith is in
conflict with who you are, I have a couple pieces of advice.
The first thing I would suggest is to read this book.
Christianity, Social Tolerance and Homosexuality.
Gay people in Western Europe from the beginning of the Christian era to the 14th century.
This will hopefully help you understand that Christianity's new obsession with the LGBT
community is only recent.
I would then suggest that you read Permission Granted,
written by Dr. Jennifer Grace Byrd.
She is a New Testament scholar that deals with gender, sexuality and marriage
within the New Testament as a thinking, feeling human.
And lastly, I'll leave you with the powerful words from my Christian friend,
Megan Lewis.
If you were convinced that God was against homosexuality or queerness,
would you advocate that queer people live in celibacy?
Absolutely.
Okay, this is interesting because obviously I've seen some of your videos about
the Bible's historical context of homosexuality.
But more specifically is the question is what if God, the creator of the universe,
was against the idea?
You are born with whatever sexuality you're born with.
And if a greater deity does not like the sexuality that a particular person is born with,
they should not have allowed that person to have been born with a sexuality.
If you're taking that viewpoint, punishing someone for the way they were made,
when they had no say in it, they had no input in it, is abusive.
It's absolutely abusive.
And I know that a lot of evangelical thought tells you that actually gay people aren't born
that way.
They're influenced or they're brainwashed or they just want to do evil.
It wasn't bullshit.
Science tells us that actually people are on a spectrum of sexuality and it's innate.
It's inbuilt into who they are.
And if God doesn't like it, God should not have done it.
