Is Jehovah gay?
I'm flying for peace, all things hidden will be revealed. I'm Freddy Kruger with the purple stone. Hail Satan, my goose is home. I'm in the twilight zoning. Roots are cut and grown.
Devil boy, you took it. Take two hits and hold it. The witch she keep you loaded. So good they want my mow it. I spit dragon venom through hell and through the heavens.
High fire is purple. I'm with the ashy ashtman. Where the horses ride. Flying through the night. I'm here for the promises. You feel alright. It's a promisey. She keeps it tight. Got the costume on. All night. I'm with the fumigation company.
Perfume intoxication. Perfume intoxication. Perfume intoxication. Cur pileadas. Perfume intoxication. Perfume intoxication. Perfume intoxication.
Welcome back to Lady Babylon and amen you you know how it goes people you're gonna get me for 30 minutes
delightful delightful dirtiness and then we're going to turn
You over to the DI and he will tell you where you should be if you are what you are
Fantastic, I love the fact that we're here tonight, and I have just a few minutes to go over something with you that is so
Get ready get ready right you thought what what else could there be oh
My goodness it's going to get dark, and we're gonna go to a place that people don't normally go to
But that's exactly
Why we're doing it
We're doing it because we like Paul
Had to go in deep
We needed that prick we needed the purple
Yeah, so what I'm going to do tonight is I'm going to take you on an actual trip of Paul the Apostle
Where he is discussing we're right there. He's right there the ship's coming down. We're getting right there first century here
He comes here. He comes. It's a rena nero. What you're doing druggy Paul. What are you doing?
That's what we're going to look at tonight, and we're going to look at
God and when I say God, I mean God
We're going to be staring Jehovah
Right in the eyes tonight, and you are going to be surprised
What you find you're gonna be surprised
It's the orientation that matters. Let's see. Let's see hit it chewy
We got a first wait wait wait before before we get to Paul and
Jehovah and show you things that people I promise you Satanic congregation people are gonna look at this and they're gonna say oh
What do we do?
Yeah, it's fantastic. Are you ready and the fun thing is we get to go right into the cult right into the cult
Right, that's how we get there. You want to see the mystery as it's happening. Are you ready?
Right and another dimension they look at everything. They say oh you're those nutcases who follow that pedophile
Yes, you do come here Paul. Somebody wants you to get spanked. Where's that? Look what we did. We expanded the universe
My god, I think it was the plant
Seastra, right here we go here. We go Paul come here tonight. It's for you. It's for you st. Paul
You little you little servant of Lydia. Oh
Oh
Everybody thinks he's so smart
Let's watch him tonight. Let's see where he gets his smarts from but first we have some soul fucking to do
I'm so glad to tell you. We've got soul sucking. Are you ready?
Pull out your finest right get on the throne
Everybody the congregation, you know exactly what I'm saying get on the throne pull out that goblet
Cuz tonight we're serving up soul. We're serving up soul
It's UFC
Antiquity
Let's go for it. Let's go for it. You ready? They're looking for challengers now
Yeah, oh, I'm hungry. I'm hungry as I can be give me the first one
Give me the first one. What is that person's I wanted just quick look at this comment
Before we get to the dang clips one of the most interesting interviews. I've ever listened to
About all of this this man is dangerous to the current leaders or lead of religions the world over
Omen Hillman
Should be taken very seriously. It sounds ominous, doesn't it? But the point here is exactly is
Exactly on I shouldn't be taken
Oh, you know people shouldn't be looking at me
But these texts reveal a completely different world than the religious world that you and I have had pulled over our eyes
Yeah, it's a new world, baby. Let's look at it through that. We're the clips. Did we put the clips in there?
Oh, we need another one. She was like shut up
Gekko boy Gekko we love Gekko's
He did his PhD under
Stavrakapulu. Oh
Right, and that's the modern Greek that I heard in his in his accent, of course in ancient Greek
I'm about halfway through her book. God. Isn't that amazing?
What's your book gonna be called God?
We're gonna find him tonight are you ready the number of times the 6th century BCE is mentioned
But never a source right right number of times it's mentioned but never a source
Your guy is full of it. Yeah, thank you
What is that? There was a very important point that I wanted to bring out for people. We do not care about theories
We don't care about word salads here. We care about what the evidence is showing us the reality
That's exactly what people are hitting on. It's nothing to do with me
It's everything to do with the muse the dragon guards that song. That's it
It's the one job
Give it to me. What's the oh, let's hit Dan come here Dan. It's time for Dan
Let me take a couple of these clips and people. This is not personal. This is not personal
This is professional
This is the guy that you see tonight who went to
Dozens of professional conferences were people who have been studying ancient Greek and Latin all their lives
They come in and they
they they wrestle and
You can't mess around man. You cannot mess around. That's what this is about. I don't want anybody
Getting taken into the back alley. Good
Let's go for it. Give me a Dan. I want to suck this up go
There are seventy nine thousand nine hundred on it like forty five words in Hebrew in the Hebrew Bible alone
So seventy nine thousand seventy nine thousand. Yeah, so I think he may have heard 80,000 somewhere. He said eight
Yeah, I think he may have mistook
84 eight because they're the Hebrew Bible itself, which is not all of ancient Hebrew like there's
There was a lot of Hebrew writing and speaking outside the Hebrew Bible
But the Hebrew Bible itself has 80,000
different words in it
Um, right. So who was confused there? We all know it was DuckTales Dan and he said
Something that was way off. I don't know where he got seventy nine thousand nine hundred and ninety five
I don't know where he got those. He pulled those out of some
Dark vaporous black hole somewhere because that's not the that look people. What's the point of this?
um
This is not just a game
When you're presenting history to someone and you misrepresent it
Uh, that's unsacred
That that's something that's befouling the planet
We have to honor the muse of history. Her name is Cleo Dan. Her name is Cleo. Give us the next one
He did correct me on something there. I said it was limited to classical and early greek lyrical poetry
But it's it's also in classical and early greek medical texts and and he pointed that out. So oh, he did
Yeah, now that has an absolutely no bearing whatsoever on the claim that that's what it means in the new testament, but um,
Okay, but it is in medical texts
Okay, did you hear the voice of reasoning sneaking in there and the renaissance
Uh champion coming out of dany jones. Did you hear that?
Yeah, no duck tails. Danny is going to continue leading down this road of deception
Right, it's when you take the sources and you cram them in the person's face
That's when that's when you know, you're in the right place
You as a classicist have done your job. You've just guarded the sources. We don't want to hear what you think
I'm sorry. Dr. P and dr. L oxford
Yale, we don't care
In the slightest what you think
We want to know what the evidence is and we want to understand it for ourselves because we're servants of the muse of history
Right. Um, watch what's happening a couple more. Let's give a couple more go. Um, what is the difference between a
A classical scholar and a biblical scholar
So, uh, a person who studies classics is primarily engaging
In the uh, the greek and the latin literature from the middle of the first millennium bce down into
The first few centuries c e and and i use bce and c e where people use bc and ad
And so classics doesn't really have a ton of overlap with the bible
But the the people who wrote and transmitted and consumed the new testament and as well as the septuagent
Were also people who engaged with classical literature and there's a lot of influence from classics on
the bio
That's not too bad. He's he's only off about 500 years
so, um classical philology is the study of greek and latin and
Our earliest sources are not in the fifth century, right?
You've missed half the boat right now. What are you watching happen? This man is an expert
Who makes his living off of being an expert?
Where is the responsibility
To the muse
Where's the responsibility that we have we have an obligation to be accurate and all you nerdy engineers and all you nerdy computer
Programmers you all understand that
The mathematicians that's the draw
Oh god, we love it. The musicians are even they don't even understand right and they're the musicians
I love it. But what's the?
He's off in the amount of time that we study, but he also makes it sound like
We don't study the bible
Because we just do classical stuff right in dan's mind
In the mind that works at the university in the mind that works at the seminary
There is a division and space and time between pagans and non pagans
monists
monists live in their own universe
Right, we all know that's not true and that's why studying the bible is part of studying classics
Right, okay, isn't it? It's terrible misrepresentation of the actual science
My god, man
Hit me the next one that second sense revolutionary insurrectionist
That's the kind of sense that would could merit crucifixion. Oh, that's not even here
You said yeah, where'd you find the revolution? So I'm looking in what what scholars affectionately know as b dag
Which is a greek english lexicon of the new testament another early christian literature
So it isolates the usage of these words within early christian literature to show how they're being used in those contexts
Yeah, but wouldn't that kind of be a biased translation if they if they if jesus is saying he's not a laystace
They wouldn't want jesus to be saying he's not a
a predator
Look at danny jones, right? He got it. He saw him right through it. What's the source that you're using?
dan
mclellan
You're using a source that was created by a specific group with specific
types of agendas
And those words you're going to be defined with their agendas in mind
You claim to be a translator dan. You should know that
Yeah
So
What do you do?
What do you do?
You don't listen to those ideas
You go to the text you go to the sources and you look at them. You say what do they say?
Now the reason I want wanted to harp on this is I wanted everybody to see
This is typical medieval dark age crappery
classical studies
Is the antidote
To that death
Of the dark ages to that stuff that oozes oozes all over your equipment knocks it out your sight
Slows down
stops progressing starts thinking things that are wild
Wild
We don't go around the sun
God created this place
right
Okay, the antidote is that classical
wisdom
And all it is is beautiful beautiful reason expressed by a language that just i'm sorry. I'm sorry ladies
I'm sorry latin
I'm sorry. She's the most beautiful by far
by far
Now people are wondering how many total words this greek app right?
um last time they checked in the tlg the
Giant corpus has 1.77 million
They used to say 20 years ago. They used to say oh, it's probably around 500 000
Right now. They're saying well with the tlg. It looks like it's much much higher. That doesn't surprise anyone
If you've done anything with this gorgeous gorgeous
Padgett winner. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I hate to say that right. I really hate to say that
but um
She wins
hands down
Hands down. Let's just all recognize that. It's why you have grammar
Yes, it's why you even ask questions about your language
Yes, you know, you do that in greek, right? You just don't realize it because you've stolen greek
Right, you speak this bastardized anglo-saxon
garbledy goop
Listen to that like listen to my inability to find an anglo-saxon word that can reach
that
Distant star and pull her down. Okay. It's gonna get gross now. Put your splash bags on wait. We've got one more dan
He me last one is dan. Are you familiar with luchin?
Not not very familiar now. It's been a while. So he wrote as he wrote. Um
luchin was another example of a writer. I think this was like
150 I could be wrong here. Steve you have to fact check me on this. I think it was like 150 bc luchin was a
A poet and he wrote a story about a guy named alexander the false prophet
Who was a laystace?
um
and he's using the
He's using the context to how alexander
The context that luchin uses to describe this guy alexander the false prophet as this terrible tyrannical laystace who's trafficking people
And and and uses using them as like prost putting them into like prostitution rings and all kinds of stuff
I think he's using that for the main historical context for that passage in mark where jesus says i'm not a laystace
Yeah, that's
So that wouldn't be relevant to what was going on on the ground and in that part of the world because it's it's we're talking
200 years later 200 plus years later and a different part of the world and and a different
type of literature altogether
Um, can you google luchin so we can actually get the real story about what his deal was?
so
So this is saying he was 125 to 180 ad
Right, okay
So roughly about a hundred and some hundred years in change after
well
Less than uh less than that for the actual composition of the gospels
So their gospels are are 75 70 c e to maybe 125 c e. Oh really? Okay. Yeah, so that's so around the same time
Yeah, it's it's much similar, but um
So
It turns out
Look, you know, there are certain advantages of being able to open portals
um
We're looking at how it worked out
originally
The thought was first of all, he didn't know who luchin was
Right, that's pretty, you know, okay. He was only a minor
In classical greek. So eh, he probably didn't have that he probably had like one semester
And it was like a survey and they probably didn't do luchin, right?
Right, this isn't a dude who's been reading greek for the last 35 years
Right, or however long he's been out of training. I don't know. I don't know
Um, yeah, but do you hear it people of am and you?
Do you hear the grade?
Of professional behavior. Do you hear the level?
Of where it is either rising to or falling to
Yeah, do you hear that?
Okay
Luchin you don't know him. Okay. Well, you think here's the question that tell me why the lace stays in luchin is so different from the lace stays
in jesus's mouth
In matthew and luke
tell me
When we talk about the lace stays
Those two that hung with him uh the lace die that are hanging next to him
In mark that one's in mark
Tell me
What's the difference? Well, it dan says look that's 200 years difference because he's thanks because he doesn't know
watch how quickly
someone in a trench coat
Is willing to embrace a fabrication, right? He doesn't know
He's not from the second century. He's from uh bc's from the second century ad
Right and early and that for that matter
Yeah
What's gonna happen then?
Well dan's gonna discover he's good. He's gonna discover that he's gonna have to
Scoop up that pile of poop that he just defecated in front of you
Yeah, okay
Do you want
to get your science
From someone who is willing to engage
Fiction
I don't
I don't want somebody like that testifying in court either
This is the classical standard and classical philologists will hold you to this
Don't bs me. I don't want to hear your stupid ideas
What's your text?
Yeah, it becomes annoying after a while, but if you want to be an investigator, you have a certain professional standard to uphold
Right, okay fantastic fantastic. Let's go to the uh, the first of our
Venture tonight. I just wanted you guys to see this one more time
Just so we can put this baby to rest seven thousand words
Look the head of the language academy at heber university who sets the standards for modern heber
Says ancient heber's only got seven thousand words. Okay
fine
So the disparity between seven thousand and one million seven hundred and seventy thousand
That's what we need to remember and focus on as we're learning
Go give me the next one. Here's the passage. We're gonna begin with tonight people. It's that passage from revelation
I'm just gonna translate it up and I counsel you
To go to the marketplace and pick yourself up gold
It's been purified in the fire so you may be rich and while you're there pick up a white gown
Throw it upon your nakedness
And what else you ought to buy a chalyrian
And in christ your eyes in order that you may see
That's the text
That's the medicine
It's not separate
The medicine and the religion
are the same
salvation
Is a medical term
Now now let's go to that party. I promise you we would go to give me the next one. Give me the next one. Let's go to the party
Here's the in christing. Here's the in christing everybody since it's on and you focus
Look at the third fourth and fifth letters. That's from rio the verb rio
It's the root rio
For that stinging the stuff you're putting in your eyes. We're at the right
And you know the first thing they're doing to you they made you drink something and to be honest
It's calming you down, but now they're putting stuff in your eyes and it burns like hell
Give me the next one. It burns like hell
And it's purple watch this people watch this
We've seen the anointing
As in the application of the drug. Look at the term that's under number two. You still get in the rio
You still get the element of the stinging
The stinging what kind of stinging do you want us to have almond?
Look at the end of that first line after pass. It says
It says yos ingrease
Yos ingrease
What are you doing?
You're christing yourself with poison and that word for poison yos that also is the word for arrow
Because they're putting the poison
on their arrow and
It's also the word
for snake venom
Snake venom fantastic
Fantastic. Oh, don't you love it now. Look at the very bottom word in the middle of that. It says kentron
That's the thorn baby and when paul paul is doing his thing. Where's paul? Let's get high with paul bring him in bring him in
Yep, there we are. Oh god. I forgot. I forgot god
I forgot god these couple of verses people
I want you to understand because it sounds like i'm crazy when I say something like
The bible was originally written all in greek
The the septuagen is the oldest form of the text that any hebra copies that came later like starting the first
Those copies are copies. Those are not originals
Those are copies from the greek a failed and terrible and pathetic attempts translate
A language that had become a monstrous beauty
A language that had become a monstrous beauty
Oh god
And what did this language say when it was
being used
To compose the book of ezekiel
It said look
I'm god
And i'm not going to send you to any group of people who has that complicated
Multivocabulary language that you don't understand
Israel
Okay
God himself
Has a thing
about his own
child's
language
Everybody knows god is witnessing
Hebrew
Is not
The technically savvy language the greek is
Straight up
Okay, god's language
huh
Yeah, apollo's language
Do you want to see galen's public demonstrations? That's what we're doing if people are like hey
What are you doing getting into?
Getting into the arena with people like dan mcclellan
And what's his name kip?
Get and with kip over on the dead sea scroll side. What are you doing getting into it? Listen galen
Was an educated physician who went to
Pergamum to get his education and he traveled traveled all over the place ended up in rome
And you know what he did he challenged the greatest minds
In medicine of his day
And he challenged them to public debates
And he wiped the floor with them
And in wiping the floor with these orthodox idiots
He brought the new science
And he changed medicine in a way that it would stay changed
for centuries
Oh
God and where did he get there he got there because he challenged knuckleheads
Who pretended to know something and galen's always like those friggin charlatans
those people
You and your sect
You ought to read hypocrite sometimes you morons
That's what galen was. He's doing all over the place. Anyway, he became the head physician and gave marcus aurelius
His compound theriac right that same thing that jesus was taken when he was arrested in a public park
With a naked kid
At 4 a.m mark 1451 and 52
Let's let's make sure we get to paul because it's gonna get dirty
Wow, yes
Absorb that image
Oh, love it love it. Thank you chewie for the images by the way. So quite let's know this one
Boom boom
Okay, people, what do I want to bring you? What do I want to bring you? I want to bring you one more christing
And this is a christing that is taking place
In our one of our oldest recorded
Oracles
Yeah, one of our oldest this is medea working and what does it say?
It says she is
drugging them
with that
pain
reducing
Antidote
And she's giving it to them to christ themselves with do you see the second word in the second line?
yes, thy
Okay
Okay
All right. Give me the next one. I want to show you a couple of things boom. Why is that important?
Watch this people listen to this verb. This is far macaw
Right and what does it mean to suffer the effects of drugs or charms?
Suffer the effects of drugs or charms
Usually the sex drugs are the ones they're talking about when the victorians translated as charms
Charms make things
excitable
Are you charmed look at number two require a remedy
So wait a minute you mean it means the action of suffering the effects of a drug
also means
To require a remedy
Do you see what's going on in the ancient pharmacy? And this is what I love telling people most because nobody studies this it's fun
The pharmacy is complex polypharmaceutical
So they are using a bunch of drugs to combine with to make one drug that they can use
To fight another drug. It's not fighting it. It's balancing it
Did you want to see the visions? Let's get to Paul
Let's get to Paul when he starts making love to god
don't
tell me that
Did nobody believes me nobody believes me. Can we can we jump down really quick?
I hate to do this. We'll come back, but I want to jump down to right there pull that up
Hmm people I promised you this and I know most people, you know, they they want the goodies
This is a spell
For a man to obtain a male lover now normally what I do is I bring you
our ancient texts in Greek
But this one is Coptic
And I don't even look at Coptic
So I wouldn't dare
Right
I learned my lesson from watching almond and dan
Right if you don't study that language don't say anything about it because you're going to look really goofy
When the tide turns and all of a sudden the guy's contemporary and you should know the term laystace. It's exactly the same time
They're writing the gospels
Is it relevant? Yeah, it is. Well, the other thing dan says it can't be in the same region
Right it's from a different part of the world. No, it's not Lucian was a Syrian
Mm-hmm who ends up in Egypt
That's exactly surrounding Judea
Yes
It was perfectly. Did you like that?
You don't want it takes to generate a hole like that. Oh my god
Let's do this. What is this spell for a man to obtain a male lover?
Look people it's a Coptic text
And it is so what we have is basically an Egyptian
Writing that has been influenced by a Greek culture and is using Greek terminology
They're using these spells. By the way, these are Christian and Jewish spells
Christian and Jewish spells
Still using
Still using those Greek powerhouses
that
Taught them how to perform the magic. They're still using them. Watch what happens here
Um, this text contains the same sex love spell commissioned by one hoo-ha
Um to bind another hoo-ha
Right, we don't care what their names their lovers good
This name literally means the old man and the monk, right? What do we need to know that? I don't know if we need that
By means of a variety of powerful utterances
roost
roost
Roost now
I told you there are Greek concepts all through these things
Um, this is one of them. The roost is the running that you have from your body
It is your seed or your ejaculation
Huh
Like your agonoroya
Is that running that you get when you are infested
With the things that cause you to run from your
privies
Yes, um, cheer here's to the brits for coming up with the words that don't sound dirty but are
privy members
Give me your put your privy member
privies
Now what do I say when I'm trying to attract my gay lover?
Right, it's kind of nice. That's all that matters. The hoo-ha details don't matter
Give me the give me the very bottom the next slide. I mean give me the next one. Boom
Watch this people watch this. Who is this that we are invoking?
Look at the second line. We're talking about the power of yaho sabba off
Who is that?
You know who that is that's johova
That's johova
I told you they were jewish spells
That's johova
What does johova do?
johova brings together
gay
Lovers
Did she make a picture of that
Give me a that's what johova does
Okay, and you thank to yourself
What a world
Is that
being embraced
This is a part of the magic
So at very least
We know that jewish society at the time that this was written in
fully embraced
Yeah, fully embraced one person's desire for a same-sex relationship
The fact that it is magic does not say that it was on the down low
The fact that it was magic was says that this process
Of performing these rights
was
saturated
With spells just like this actions just like this when we meet to perform magic
We know there are sex spells there are spells in there for christian men to inseminate christian women
Did you know that?
Wow, did you know you can do things to people in their dreams?
And the christians are the ones who are piloting the dream vessels
Don't you want vision?
What do you think apocalypse is?
Let's go to paul. He's the he wants vision. He says he wants vision go back up to where we
Oh, good. No go back up to where we'll come back to that go back to where we skipped
Who do we we we skipped over somebody here was the second verb for the father macao
Now before it was father macao and this is father macao
Are you ready that means to medicate and it gives us the varied little reference that we had there
But then I want you to look I want you to look at number two
It's also used of an arrow
And it's used of that really weird witchy thing that people do when they get bewitched
And they get all excited
Do you know what happens when you get excited?
When you get filled with the god
Oh
We're gonna see the purple haze coming up. I'm serious purple haze, baby. I brought it for you. Give me the next one
Oh my god. What is the auntie dome? It's just the antidote, right?
It's just I just wanted you people to know I'm not making this up. Look antidote
Right. I want you to look at one medical author. His name is paul of ejina. Now modern greeks say egina
Right paul of ejina. This is him and he's a physician
He's a physician a Byzantine physician. He's not just a Byzantine physician
He's an encyclopedist or he's a he's somebody who laid down like all of the principles of medicine
Here's where his little hometown
You know, there's the island. Whoo. Nice gorgeous, right paul
Good for you making a living go hit the next one. Um, what does he say?
I just want you to see a text that you will never see nobody's ever going to show you this ever
You can go to oxford. You're not going to see this guaranteed
Um, what is he talking about? This isn't a section I was reading. Um, that talks about what do you do for adenoids?
What do you do for tonsils?
Right when they get infected and he talks about here. Look, you've got to make this trochusk this
Little pasty this little pill and it's got a bee of amber and then you have to take
What else do you got a compounded together and you got to have that limny and earth?
Right and you make the seals. Oh, look, we've been here. He's doing the same stuff. Galen was talking about
Right. Oh, that's fantastic. And what do we do? We employ it this way after we add some blah blah blah
Okay. What I wanted you to see what I wanted you to see is that he is actively involved in using the terms
That you see scattered all over the new testament and old testament
Okay, he's using those still he's later. He's Byzantine doctor
And they are still using them
Huh, they used them before the bible they used them after the bible
Hmm, let's go the next one. Uh, Dan'll never know. He won't know who these people are. Look people just look at
And just peruse this sometimes and pause it and just peruse it. He says at the top here. This is from his
Uh, what is this the fifth book? It says it says in this fifth book, you know
Are all these principles written out on the theriacs and the elixopharmica?
Those are the theriacs and the antidotes you could translate that as and all you know to all the
these crazy crazy
Species that they're dealing with you know the first one is you know
You're guarding against the just in general poison
White things that are poisonous, but he goes through this list and you're going to see a whole bunch of spiders and snakes
scorpions
Right. Oh just a whole bunch of different types of venoms. Oh my god. There's the there's the one they're using in the religious rides
That gives you the thirst. There's the deep sauce
You oh you freemasons out there. You freemasons who want it. You're this close
You need the sting give me the give me the next one. Let's just keep charging
Oh, yeah, this is what you do and you act place. So watch this people you can drive out of your mind
You can be driven out of your senses
Right. There's a there's a whole set
of
That is influenced by medicine and antiquity, right and that doesn't live behind a wall
like
You know, I'm not talking about the same thing as going to a hospital and listening to
Doctors using their own jargon
Right. I'm not talking about that. I'm talking about the common person in the street
Has no barrier of separation between these words in greek that are highly highly charged medical words
And any other use of them that's not medical. There is no separation when you say christ
You are envisioning
A drug
That is stinging you to madness
That is the christ
Okay, the christ is stung to madness and we have examples of it outside jesus, right? We looked at medea
We looked at her whole business, right good. She's the founder, right? She's the one who made it
And can I just say for those of you who are concerned for the virgins?
I know you're concerned for the virgins
and you understand
That jesus christ
Was performing actions that were contrary
and that to tradition
Of the orphic mysteries because you you know, you don't want to go there
You don't want to be there with that boy that jesus is arrested with you don't want to be performing those acts
That jesus is performing on the boy just like he didn't want to oh
Take it away from me
Why you get this
Do you understand that as you go into the desert and have access to satan you understand why the trial
Is so heavy
It's so heavy. Let's watch a couple of these idiots go through this
All right, give me the here we go now. Look paul says here. He is
Everybody here's paul. He's about to do his thing
You thought it would be preaching or maybe an ice cream social. No, no, no
He's gonna get ripped with a dude
intimate
intimately ripped
And he's gonna fly
To the third heaven you ever been to the third heaven? Oh god. What does he say? He says I don't mean to brag
Right from all of these visions. I don't mean to brag
right
but
Because nobody should brag. I was given a skull ops in my flesh
I was given a thorn in my flesh and you know what that thorn is that thorn is an angelo satana
Wait, did paul just say
By way of a skull ops
he has access
To an angel called satan. This isn't an angel of satan. This is an
satan angel
Oh
You know what that is
He's sitting on the throne
In order why why is he giving this because god likes to slap him around
He likes to slap him around
Give me the next one. Okay. Are you there? We're we're we're getting crazy with paul
Don't worry about it. What is that skull ops? It's anything pointed. Yeah, that's why I say thorn, right? And they say thorn too
Look at the very middle of this page though
Under number two if you look at the greek on the third line, it says scolopace. That's the plural
Right thorns. What kind of thorns foinikos?
Do you know what kind of thorns you take that gets you to the third heaven?
You take the finition purple thorn
And you fly
With god in love
What?
Yeah, it gets kind of strange like why do we have to have the sexual part paul's dirty bra tells dirty dirty dirty
he's very clear
with the
intimacy level
The he and this dude
This dude
Are having
Right, where's that spell?
Where's that spell?
By the name of johova when you say johova's name. Do you know what you're endorsing?
You are endorsing
The love
Of the same sex
If you had a second third fourth century
Rabbi practicing his magic
You're gonna find johova being invoked
To grab ahold of that other rabbi
and to bring him in
You want to see you want to see it happening? Watch this
Give me the one that we skipped go down. Yeah, maybe that one
There it is
Who is this that we're talking about? Let's just read it together blow it up. Chewie
Yet, I am sypree and the great magician
This is third century who was the friend
Of the dragon of the abyss
All right, well he called me his son and I called him father
He placed his crown and his diet dim on my head
I suckled milk at his right breast and all of you looked at me when I told you Jesus christ is wearing a
bra
Like what?
It's because he gives milk, baby. He gives milk
Now this next part I can't vouch for this next part, right? He made me a place that is right now
That sounds cool, but he subjected me to every power of his
I'm not quite sure what that means and if you were if you told me what's he gonna do to me
Well, first you're gonna this and then he's gonna subject you to every form of power he's got
I don't know
I don't know
I ascended what happened paul. This is this is not paul. This is sypree and no, no
This is paul and sypree and and jesus
This is the performance of classical religion
Sypree and his right sypree and his is deep in the magic as anyone else
Maybe that's why they say he had
Serpent venom coming out of his backside
Yeah, he did look it up
They called him in a graveyard
Was two prostitutes
Why
Why do you need the sex?
It's part of the right brah
There's a reason jesus christ was arrested with a naked kid in the public park. What happened next?
The person who was in the right ascends up to the play of these
And they glided by under me like a ship, right? I learned the whispers of the stars. Of course you did
There's nothing more orific than that
I took possession of the treasuries of the winds
Do you know what the oldest hymns are in the mystery?
The western mystery the mystery of the bronze age
They gave you Judaism and Christianity along with
hundreds
of other cults
Do you want to know
What happened at the birth of that?
They wrote hymns
to the winds
Yeah
Medea's famous for it
Her hymns to the winds
Now if you're into the magic you get it if you don't you don't
I mastered the whole of astronomy
Right, and then we get into but all this did me no good with a virgin named justina. Oh god
Now he's gonna get into it with her he gets obsessed
Right, so what are you gonna do when you're obsessed with a virgin? You bewitch her
You drug her
Isn't that nice think of a world
Think of a world
We're dating involves not the giving of candy
but
The bill Cosby s giving of drugs
Yes, did you know you can give somebody a drug
That will cause them
To become attracted to you
Wow
That's fantastic. Let's give me the next one. Give me the next one. You mean god is gay very much so
Very much so right look. He's the one that you go to right if you pray to him for war
He's mars right if you pray to him for fruit
He's priapas if you pray to him for homosexual activity
He's jahoba
Let it sink in
Let it sink in. What's the stuff they told us it doesn't seem
Correct that well, that's what happens when you allow monist to control your education
You get a fairy tale world you get disney land
Oh my god
What's gonna happen?
Um, he's gonna lead them look he says I can't brag but you know
I got a lot to say about these visions
And these apocalypses that i'm being given by
God the lord
Wait paul is having visions. Yes. I want to just want you to look at that second line
That in greek obtasias
What is that that is a word that is the closest word to hallucination as you and I understand it
In the greek mind, it was a vision or an appearance of someone that was not actually there
It's only seen by the from the perspective of the of the one who's describing it
It's the closest thing we've got to hallucination and then revelations those apocalypses
That paul is going through that is a prophetic
marking of time
Right, that's an oracular gift
So he's getting these hallucinations and these comprehensions of time
Give me the next one
And what else is happening? Look these these are paul paul's words. I want everybody
To envision for one moment paul the apostle
By the way, if you did not realize yet
I'll throw this in there as a curveball
Because I don't think many people have realized this. I don't spend a ton of time with paul
Besides reading him frequently and he is
Obsessed with children
He likes to go with the youngins
They like to take them on their missionary journeys
Well
There's nothing I can assure you
That is not regular
That he is involved with
Yeah, okay, let's see the let's see the next one boom give it to me
You know what's funny is the
An evangelical can't argue around any of this because it's just what the text is saying. Here's what paul says. He says I knew
I knew
I recognized a dude
This dude he was this kind of dude
And what did he do? He says I don't know if it was outside of my body
All right, I don't know if it was in my body. The only one who knows is god
But I knew this dude
Give me the next one
What do you mean you knew him?
What do you mean? Were you familiar with him?
Well, let me explain says paul let me explain
I was
grabbed up
And jammed into paradise
And I heard things that are unspoken. I heard those
I heard those things that you shall not speak
Yeah
Yeah
Give me the next one. What what's going on paul?
listen
I'm gonna tell you I'm the man
And my hottest
Is your antidote
My hottest is your cure
The power
Is in your weakness
The power is in your catatonia. The power is in your total release
And you know what
I'm gonna go ahead as paul. I'm gonna go ahead and I am going
to take pride
In my state of weakness
Yeah, because
The power of christing
Is making me crazy
Oh
It what is it doing it's apiscano say it's what it's infiltrating my brain the christ is infiltrating my mind
The power of the purple
And remember I paul get bitten
By poisonous vipers and have no reaction just like jesus said
He said
It's not gonna hurt you his drugs aren't gonna get to you
I wouldn't suggest licking any part of these people. Do you understand?
Contact is enough to spread this stuff
Right doesn't take much stuff. You know what I mean
Give me the next one
Boom, what's this hottest you say? Um, look
paul's man long story short paul's man is god
He ends up being god, right and his hottest is enough for paul now every christian says
Don't be dirty. It's not dirty. It's just the word grace
Here it is
Outward grace favor or beauty. Oh, it must just be what just my beauty
Maybe he's just saying my hotness is good enough for you, baby
Right. No, take a look if you've been reading this stuff
with your life
Watch what your sweat produces. Give me the next one
You know, there's a medical connotation
And what is it surprise surprise? It's an illusion. Nice the love charm, baby
Do you know what your hottest is? It's that thing that makes you aroused
Do you know why aphrodite is always accompanied by hottest?
Yeah, I don't either but
I want to be there
Why
Because you and I have been messing with love drugs
You and I know what that thorn in the flesh does
A lot of you, you know, you see the hippies
And you see the hippies getting involved with the drugs and you see the hippies getting involved with the sex
And you thank yourself those dirty hippies
It looks like
The hippies are drawing on some kind of quantum reality
That joins the action of whatever the drugs are doing to your brain with the sex
Huh interesting. Is that why when you enter the right and they put you into the death state with an
Within a state of arousal that they will force you
Into coming to climax while you're dying
That must be quite a thing. That must be quite a thing
To undergo. It's no wonder they all come back and they're like, oh my god
Wish I'd have done that years ago
Yeah, some kind of
revelation
the beast
bears up that cup held by lady babelon
Yeah
Go for it next one. Let's get the good. Let's get to the goodies. Get the give me the next one. Look at what is
Ostenosis that paul is undergoing. It's a weakness or a faintness
right when
his
Love magic is strong enough for paul
paul will be in a state of complete
weakness
inability
You don't know the right you've never been to the third heaven until you've entered
That ostinosis. Give me the next one just in case you
Just in case you doubt
Look at ostinicos
Right, it's just another it's an adjectival form, right and it means weekly
And look what what's right next to that? Okay ready? I'm gonna I'm gonna pop that
that
False reality in your brain. What is it to mean to be in that weekly state? It means to be paideon
unless
You come to me paideon
You have no place in the kingdom of heaven. You won't make it
You won't make it the right requires
And that's why
Jesus has to be the way he is. He's got to hide
What's going on?
Because these are all the rights of the initiates
These are the mystery rights
These are those baptisms that we hear so much about you mean baptism is sexual. Yeah, and it involves some dyes
Yeah, good
Good. Good. Good. Hit me with the next one. Boom. And finally ostinums you guys look you can even
And surprise surprise the septuagen is the source here
You can even be in that state of weak mindedness
Think about that for a minute. You're gonna combine that asthenia
And we use this to work today in medicine my asthenia gravis, right? Same thing
Um, same route you can be a weakened soul think about that for a minute. What does that mean to have your soul weak?
Have your soul weak you have to enter in to this position of death
You have to enter into it's part of the if you don't have death you don't have resurrection, right?
Is that person aroused? Yeah, that person's aroused. Give me the next one
boom
Now I want to read this passage to you and I know people look at this and they're like holy crap
It's an hour. We're an hour in this. He's got a gigantic passage yet. But this is going to go fast
I'm just going to read it to you fast and show you a couple of things now
Paul says it was in there somewhere. I think I may have skipped it
But Paul says hey, um, this is how I got to that third heaven
Right, he doesn't know if it was an in body or out of body
Have you ever had one of those experiences where you're like, oh god, did that really happen?
right, and you're not just
Intellectually questioning it, but you actually kind of foggy about it. You know what I mean?
That's part of the experience
Paul is suffering the same side effects right the same mental haze. They describe it as the mental fog
Yeah, he's got it
So that is one right which is which involves you
and god
one on one
in a homosexual relationship
And a place that will take you thanks to that goddess
Will take you all the way to that visionary third heaven
If you want to go there you're gonna have to do certain things
Cyprian is gonna get caught in the cemetery with snake venom coming out of his butt
Right certain sacrifices you got to make if you want that vision
All right. Good. You know, it's the one thing Paul said that he had right everything else was
Everything else was fine. He had some trouble rationalizing it. That's all. Let me give you this. This is about Phineas
This is about Phineas and I just want to read here from the top
Um, and he reverents not a wit even Zeus himself for he foretold unerringly. Oh, um, Phineas is a prophet
He's one of these drug using prophets and we're about to see him
Doing his drug using thing
For he foretold unerringly to men his sacred will right he exposed Zeus all the time
Wherefore Zeus sent upon him a lingering old age and took from his eyes
the pleasant light
He took from his eyes the light
And suffered him not to have joy of the dainties untold that the dwellers around ever brought to his house
When they came to inquire the will of heaven, you want to go find out what the future is?
Hang out with Phineas and bring him some lovelies
Now this is very very common. You might think oh, this was the one punishment of Zeus on this guy Phineas. No, no, no
No, no the seers are always blind
And haven't you noticed that the seers are always blind and the better their sight
The better their sight the less their vision
The ones who are strongest in vision
Are totally blind
Why?
Because when you use the burning purple
It blinds you
It's a sacrifice you make
In order to see the reality
You have to destroy your own eyes
If your eyes
Are full of light
Oh god
Oh god, you mean these wackos or these wackos are doing this
No wonder no wonder he needs glasses. What happened?
He's um on a sudden
Swooping through the clouds whenever he was at his banquets getting high and talking about the future
The harpies with their crooked beaks incessantly snatched the food away
From his mouth and hands
And at times not a morsel of food was left that others put a little in order that he might live and be tormented
And they poured forth overall a loathsome stench
Do you know what happens when you mix these drugs with the foods that you're taking?
You lose the flavor
of life
And he's stuck. He's stuck. Why are these harpies doing this and who are the harpies?
You know who a harpie is do you have a picture of a harpie?
Chewie probably not give me
Um, who knows um the harpies. What do they look like?
Yeah, they are those
ladies
Who rip your soul?
From your body now if you've never had a woman rip rip your soul from your body. I'm sorry
No vision for you
Don't worry about it
You don't need to have the concerns that zeus is going to want to bash you because you know the future
Yeah, you don't want to but that's okay. That's okay. If you haven't had the harpies. You haven't had the harpies
um
Let's let's keep oh no you didn't find it blow that up
Blow that up. Are we on yeah?
And so what happens but all of a sudden, you know, they swoop down right in the harpies
They give you the you know, remember we're seeing these harpies
Right, we're with paul
We're hallucinating
We have those visions those apocalypse
You
You should have paid job
You should have paid job with chewie. I told you okay. I think we're back
Motion to me if we're there people are you live are people in my life? Okay
A fart. Oh god. All right. Look what happens. I leave for five minutes. You start talking about farts
Open put up the screen
redirect this conversation
I just want to finish this and at times not a morsel of food is left and they poured forth this loathsome stench
And no one dared not merely to carry the food to the mouth but even to stand at a distance
So fouley reeked the remnants of the meal but straight away when he heard the voice
Wait, wait, what and the tramp of the band
He knew that they were the men passing by at who's coming
Zeus's oracle had declared to him that she he should have joy of his food
So he rose up from his couch like a like a light. How did he get up right?
Remember remember Jesus in the Garden of Gethsemane. This is the same
This is the same action the attempt to move
Stumbly bumbly
Right delusive imagine if you're delusive and confused and you're trying to walk around
Yeah, you can you stumbly?
This is how finneas is it's the way the prophets get people. I'm not saying
this
They're saying this. Okay. Let's let's open it up. I can't see it. It's too small
Okay, and what happens and he came forth from the
But but but but no and he moved his limbs trembled with weakness and age
And his parts skin was caked with dirt and not but the skill held his bones together
And he came forth from the hall with wearied knees and he sat on the threshold of the courtyard and a dark stupor covered him
What covers your prophets a dark
Stupor
What is that? Can we see that just let's let's just throw it out. Maybe there's some can we find some purple?
Yes, can we find some purple here it is in the greek?
Here it is in the greek
caros de min am feca loops and por furios
This purple haze
Hid him in mental darkness and when he walked
Felt like the earth was moving around
Yeah
So he laid down
And entered into his coma
All right
All right. Do you see the visions that are happening?
Do you see the visions that are having they're happening to people who were stumbly?
Bumbly entranced ecstatic
and seeing things
Namely the third heaven
Hit me with the next one
That on audos by the way at the bottom that on audos. This is what the person is who is under the influence
Oh, by the way, the caros is just that heavy sleep. Notice they put torpor so the purple haze that you're in
All right, that is a state of torpor
Torpor
yeah
Yeah, excellent. Give me the next one
and
Watch this almost done. What is the on audos that you become now?
A lot of people would say for the greek people here tonight
You would say hey, this is the alpha privative. Look at that first alpha
It's the alpha privative that negativizes what's gonna follow it and you gotta have a new there because you can't say audos
Sounds bad. So you say on audos
Right, and what is audos? It's just that speech
But this is not simply someone without speech
That is someone who is afonos
Nothing is coming out. What is an on audos? It's somebody who can speak
But their articulations
are not
proper
You can't understand them. What's that dude saying? I don't know. He's blah, blah, blah
I don't know that guy's had so many drugs. You see that purple stuff coming out of his eyes
And he's got all those thorn pricks in him. This guy is a junkie extraordinary. He must be one of those christs
He must be
Paul is becoming a christ
You didn't know it did you you didn't know there was a love affair between you and johova, did you?
But there is
Watch what happens this stuff is unspeakable
Keep going. Do you know why paul says he can't say certain things about the unspeakable things that he learned
Because not everybody
Not everybody follows the mysteries
No
You mean
Judaism and its core
Christianity at its core
Is an attempt
An attempt to cover up sexual unions
blessed by
Ya Sabah
Yes
Huh
Maybe those vessels aren't looking so bad, you know, they have to stay virgins
Do you know why vessels have to stay virgins?
Because that flame goes out
That flame goes out when you accomplish the race the flame goes out
You need the person remember she's a poet
And you need that poet in that state
They used to say keep the lover at a distance from her
Never able to reach but close enough to be seen
So that the desire drives your poetry
Okay, we're those sons of were they clever or what?
That's fantastic. That's gorgeous. Give me the next one. We're almost done. Boom. Yep
Oh, you know again, you know what I'm late and you know what being late is late gets my goat. Did we do that one?
Yeah, no, that's okay. I said go so you brought Penelope Penelope. We love you
Say hello to everybody that's here tonight
And why do I show Penelope Penelope is a gift if you look at her cross and you imagine
You imagine that the cross
Is covering a multitude of your sins
You'll understand
What the right is all about
Praise jesus
Hail satan
Give me the give me the next one. Boom. I think we're done. Is that yeah. Yeah, we did that. Okay
I'm gonna bring in look tonight and I'm and you
I'm gonna bring in your drill sergeant
But I'm he's only gonna be here for a few minutes because he's gonna tell you how you're doing
And he's gonna tell you what you need to do to continue to succeed
So let's all sing happy birthday to
Actually, you know what I'd like to do instead of singing happy birthday because chewy his and
Teddy have spent so much time on these videos could we watch
That intro one more time could we could we watch the intro and then we'll watch the exit right after the di is done
Give me that intro
Ballerina come to see you
Fanatos with love Athena
Adrena chroma to your domain and end the war
I'm buying for peace all things hidden will be revealed. I'm freddy kuga with the purple stone
Hail satan
Medusa's home. I'm in the twilight zoning roots. I cut and grow them
Diff the ball you took it take two hits and hold it the witch she keep you loaded so good
They want my mow it I spit dragon venom through hell into the heavens
Hot fire is purple. I'm with the ashy ashtman where the horses ride
Flying through the night. I'm here for the promises. You feel all right
It's a policy
She keeps it tight
All right, thank you for coming tonight to the dojo
I know I've been getting a lot of your email. I've been looking over what you're doing
I want to make a couple of announcements their announcements. There are groups
That are on discord
groups of my former students who have gone through
The intensive course and they are setting up aids. They're very much like aid stations
Where you can be helped whether it's with the alphabet whether it's with vocabulary
Whether it's with the pronunciation that we insist on at almond you whether it's those things
They're helping you through those things and I know a lot of people have commented on how helpful it is
To my former students like Nancy and old boy
Who are working on those on helping people to be able to make it through the obstacle courses that we have to run
Now where are you? You are done with unit one
You read through the introduction
You read through unit one
You did the exercises in unit one and you were able to say okay
What I can do at this point I can recognize basic words
And I can work with nouns a little bit. I can work with nouns. Good. We did nouns
fantastic
What is coming up?
Over the next two weeks what you will be expected to do is to read unit two
You will read it not just once read it a couple of times
Read through it and then go to the vocabulary list. What do you do? Just read it
All you're doing is exposing your brain to the greek
Right now don't sit there and try
Don't sit there and try let it come natural
Let mother greek come to you
Let her embrace you
Right, that's how it works
Go to it and look at the beauty
Look at the beauty of the words
Look at the sexiness of that vocabulary list and everything that it tells you about your terrible terrible language
Anglosaxon if that's what you're speaking
Yeah
Okay, so here's what I need for you to do unit two
is the first
of a
two unit section
on verbs
What are verbs?
What are verbs? This is all you need to know
There we go, we're back verbs are words of action
or being
And by the way, those of you look it's the internet. Okay
It's it kind of makes it quirky. You love it. I know you do if you'd love the fact that
It looks like I'm using a camera that's a hundred years old
Um, please say that right, um, but it's the it's the way it is
So look, what do you have to do?
You have to be able to recognize what a verb is and what is a verb a verb is an action
Or a state of being that's all I want you to think an action
Or a state of being and this chapter chapter two
We're going to learn
The basic components of the verb
How do we describe verbs?
Verbs can be described
by words like person
number
tense
mood and voice
person number tense mood and voice
Now do you have to be thinking about this? No, and I don't want you to be thinking
But if I thought about this stuff, I would have never made it through greek first semester never
Okay, do I want you to be thinking about it? Absolutely not. I want you to be able to tell me
You can describe verbs by their person number tense mood and voice
What is their person first second or third?
Shut up. That's all you need to know. What is their number singular or plural?
What are their tenses?
We're about to teach you tenses and you're going to say past present and future shut up
What are the tenses that you need to know?
present
imperfect future
heiress perfect
in blue perfect
There were six of those that you will know by the end of unit three
present imperfect future
heiress
perfect
blue perfect
What are those?
The present I do the imperfect I was doing the future I will do
The perfect I have done the blue perfect
I had
done
The heiress I did
Fantastic
Okay, that's all you need to know for tenses those all you need to recognize are those six names
And how to translate them in the book will tell you how to translate each one of those
So that's tense. What is mood right now?
You only need to know one mood and that's called the indicative
All verbs have an indicative mood and it's the majority of the ways that the verb is used
You're just indicating something. Okay. That's all you need to know for now indicative
All right, what about um
voice
There are three voices. We're only going to know one for now. It's called the active voice
But we also learn the future of the middle and the passive. There is no true middle voice
in english
Why is that?
Because english unlike ancient greek
does not focus on the perspective of the speaker the greeks are
overly obsessed with the speaker the one who is performing the action or having the action performed on it
That individual they're obsessed with it's like they can't you can't stop put put yourselves in the place of the speaker
Right. I wonder is that a mark of intelligent language?
I think it is. Did you know there are some intelligent languages and there's some dummy languages?
Right people are gonna be like, oh, no, you can't say that. Yeah, you're saying that because you speak one of those dummy languages
Fantastic, right? Know who you are
Right. Know who you are hit uh wait. Oh, um, so those are what you need to know from the verb
Person number tense mood and voice and you're gonna get all of the examples first person singular i second person singular you
third person singular he she it
First person plural we second person plural you third person plural they
That's all in the book and it'll all it lay that out for you. Why?
Because what we're going to do and here's where you need to focus
What we're going to do when we learn verbs
Is we're going to understand is a group that a verb
is a machine
and it can do
Many different things and all you got to do is you got to change its ending
Maybe put something on the beginning
Okay, think about that. We're going to take an action like kicking
And we're going to say, oh, I don't want to say i'm kicking now. I want to say I kicked yesterday
You changed the ending a little bit
Slap something on the beginning and you got I kicked instead of I am kicking
All right, what if I want to put in the future you change the ending and you make it a future ending
So that people can see oh, this is kicking in the future
All right, what if I want him to kick
What if I want
Our entire group to kick why can't we kick? Oh, it's easy change the ending
Everything with the verb is dialed in from the ending
Yeah, so what you're going to do
That's called conjugation
We take that ending and you put it together with that root. Oh god. What do you have?
You conjugate
Let's conjugate don't you love to conjugate?
We're going to be doing that with our verbs
And our verbs the last thing I want to get across to you tonight because I know you're just going to be starting to read unit two
The last thing I want to get across to you is
There is a savvy
way
That the verbs have of acting they can slide in and out of tenses very easily
All right, there's a there's a lot of wiggle room
And the reason the greek is that way is because when you hear that entire word
And you hear it with its beginning and its root and its ending you're forming a mental picture in your mind
And you can wiggle that you can you can paint you can
Change the tone of your colors. Oh god. Let's make this one in more intense
Right take it from the indicative mood to the subjunctive
And what do we do when we switch from the indicative to the subjunctive?
We go from a world of just plain old narration to a world of possibilities
Yeah
In english, we just use little models for that
It's almost like we tapped our brains somewhere and now we're going to just march in peat
Yeah, where's the peat?
Past the peat. It's on your feet
It's not so sweet. Give me the next one. Um, I want to go to oh, you should you're saying we're where we're going here
I want to bring. Oh, I didn't bring it. What I need to give you finally is to say
Hey, the exercises are there when you finish reading each unit. You should attempt the exercises, right?
You should attempt the exercises and I will bring next week the exercises just a smattering
Maybe half a dozen
Maybe 10 of those exercises and we will go over them now if you can keep up with me
You're doing exactly what you should be doing
You're keeping up with me
You're going to notice
Now in unit two that there are a series of charts in bold
All right the present
tense
the
Perfect tense the future tense you're going to get those now
And you're going to see the endings that you got to tack on to those and what are you going to do with those endings?
You're going to memorize them
You're going to memorize them. What are the presents?
One of the imperfects on s a woman at day on
What are the heiress ass a manatee on?
Interesting. You mean you can just
Wrote those things. Yeah, I need you to do that
Part of the intensive course is teaching you
to go through those charts and just
boom
Memorize them so you can spit them out
memorize your endings in in victorian england when you get the whip to
smash the little boys on their
Back sides for not learning the other greek paradigms properly. You say, what are your endings?
Ah
Now you have to do that at this point because this is basic training when you're translating in the future
You're not going to be thanking. Oh god. Wait. Wait. Ah, I'm oh, this is right. You're not going to be thanking that way
As the more you progress into ancient greek the less you're going to see
That
That uh, tuning you're just going to see the final product and it's going to click
It's like riding away if you get to a point. We're just riding the wave
But at this point in the game if you don't and I lose
I lose people's
interest
If I focus on the paradigms too much
Because it's a lot of work. It's a lot of building
It's a lot of
Weightlifting just constant weightlifting. So here's what I need for you to do for those of you who are following
I'm going to use intensive greek course. I need you to memorize
All the tense endings
For the verbs from unit two for next week so that I can shout out and I can say what are the future endings
And you can say always a woman at the uc
We're going to start doing that next week
What are you going to be doing this week?
grade unit two
Comprehend it start digesting the vocabulary learn. I'll read all those beautiful notes
Those beautiful notes about the derivations of words
And oh god, everybody here. You're going to be 900 people with that much more
Um vocabulary. So keep it up. I know it's tough
We have 1.7 million to memorize
So let's get going. I love it. Um, thank you for coming tonight. Uh, thank you very much
There will be I just want you to know in the works
Um, there will be some kind of coming
octagon
We must if we are true
members of the new renaissance
We're going to have to
Subject ourselves
to public
demonstrations
public debates
And so, uh, we're in the works things are coming
Things are coming. So I'm ready and I'm going to be getting in shape
For it because I want to make weight for this next competition
You know, you know what I mean dan's one thing, but you know, you work your way up the ladder, right?
and um,
hopefully
My exercise program will be able to get me to the stage
That i'm undefeatable and that's the goal. That's the goal
So how am I going to prep just for those of you who want to know over the next few weeks?
I'll be reading
All of the septuagint and the new testament
I have to you know, it's just the thing I've got to do in greek, of course
In greek, of course, thank you for coming
And I hope to see you in the future. There are new interviews out. Um,
Yeah, I did a live interview. Oh god
I'm gonna list those, you know, I've got several of those to list and i'm gonna list those
Um, yeah, let me do that. I'll put them on the uh webs on the
page here
Thank you for coming tonight
Please
Please as you're learning your greek. You're going to become
frustrated
You're going to become frustrated
If you have any access
To the people who are the veterans who have been through the program they can tell you look dude just
Chill out. It's going to it's going to keep like this, right?
And someday you're going to look back and realize. Oh my god. Did I do that?
Did I do that much and you're going to have a test after unit three?
And the tests are fantastic. I'll do my tests in a way
I'm going to do them for you. Oh all all 800 of us or how many of us are there?
Not we're going to do it. Thank you for coming tonight. I know it was tough
I know it was tough looking at some of the origins of jehovah
And the things that you didn't know that were there so for the for those of you who
You know who are going to write to me and tell me I love one of the best comments I got recently was
enjoy hell idiot
So for all of you, thank you for coming sisters of frustration. Thank you for coming. I'll see you friday night
For lady babelon
And we'll bring in the apocalypse hell satan
Maafina
death of a creeper
fashion gibbets
for child interferers
sleep with the devil
and then you will pay
sleep with the devil and you'll be taken away
You must pay when you enter the gates
of babelon
for all that you did the drone
laces rex
imv
cash and checks
doctors do dreams
purple rain
aflina doing a thing
You can hear me knocking at the door. I'm in the purple suit
satanalia
here we go
wolf spain
theory act flow
perfume intoxication
perfume intoxication
perfume intoxication
perfume intoxication
perfume intoxication
perfume intoxication
perfume intoxication
perfume intoxication
