To the winds
Toxication
Ripple cushion the air
heroin painkiller
Take it to the river
Bring the thriller
Goldworn dildos moilla
Medea the mother of invention
creator of the process flowers
Athena stings her songs
from death of a bone
High purple strong
go long
Poisonous arrows the poor of royal purple makes a noble shroud
Amidst the cremation of Venus
All my love for you all my love let zeppelin
Spare way to heaven
Paradise is close
Doing it right superman blimp crystal castle
Hollywood ghosts shimmy by the tree line
You didn't have to love me like you did but you did
Welcome back to lady Babylon. Hey Teddy
That's fantastic, bro. Your music is getting so good that I'm going to play it half way through this
Yeah halfway through I want people to get a little little more teddy in there. Oh god. I love it. Absolutely love it now
You thought last time was the worst
You thought it was the
You
And we're gonna bounce too close to that supernova again, we're not gonna get out of here chewy
Um
You thought last time it was the deepest and the darkest of any of this cult that I've brought out to you
From the ancient world. You thought it was I'm gonna walk you through something tonight that is the step beyond
Remember last time we translated
Untranslated Galen where Galen talks about you know these stick groups of people who are Christing each other
You know and you can get feces down your throat this way because they're doing the fination
Like the people from Lesbos do the fination
So tonight what I've done is I've managed to find a
source
Who describes to you and
detail exactly what
those people are doing and
Jesus is one of those people
He is
Buckle up people because this is gonna get real
This is gonna be so real. It's gonna burn your nose hair off. Oh my god. Oh
My god is this stuff? This is the dope people you
Thank me Satanic congregation. Thank me. Thank me in the comments because what I am bringing you tonight is
It takes that extra step beyond it takes that extra step
Where do we end up last time?
We ended up last time with the Christing in the throat
No, I'm gonna use that terminology
And you who have ears to hear now will be able to follow me
Fantastic fantastic, I've missed everybody in the last few couple of days. Yes. Thank you. Thank you, Stephanie
Thank you, Stephanie. Thank you. Who's that Merlin? No, Marin
Marin thank you Marin. Oh and thank you Seth
Thank you, Seth. He has a long name
Bruh, Ray brah shout, okay, let's go for it people. I'm serious
Splash bags out everybody off off the ship. Come on. Let's go down tonight. Who are we pulling up? We're pulling up. Oh
God
Epiphanious
He's a guy from Cyprus. He runs the island. He's the bishop extraordinaire
And let me tell you what he wrote about in the fourth century
Let me tell you what he wrote about in the fourth century. He filled us in on the history of
Jesus and the people who followed him
Yeah, that's what he did. Oh, tell us Bishop tell us Bishop
What about it and we from the Satanic congregation?
We are interested in one thing and one thing alone
We want justice
And for those of you who have seen the king anointed
above
justice
You know
You know, what's coming?
You know, what's coming? It's prophetic. Oh god. I love it
Get me the first text here people. It's tiny one brought you a tiny one
We're gonna I'm sorry people, but we're gonna climax in about four and a half minutes
You're gonna see the crescendo
the crescendo of this entire show
Oh god, watch what happens. He says who is it? You know, it's epiphanious and he's saying look dude
right after
Just right immediately after everything that's happening with the early church
With the few people who started it right at this time. What's happening? I'm just gonna translate you there were these
Gnostics those you know what spread all over the place
You know what they were like they were like the fruits of poop
They spread all over you see that word you see the ending. Okay, here's where the Gnostics come from
We ended last time with our
With our copper on that were spreading on the body remember spreading the copper on on the body and we're putting it
Earwax, we were drinking earwax too. Remember it was a good time. I know you do
I'm gonna hold you to that because you were all there
um
We're picking up from there and what's happening here. He's saying look these these people
There's who these Gnostics. They're getting the wherever you throw poop grow up. Give me the next one, right?
Okay, so let's let's roll with it. Let's roll with it epiphanious. It says there's this one dude named Simon, right?
It's really he's really the first
Heretic he's really the first heresy
Right, this is the
Immediately after the crucifixion
Right, this is the early early church history
Right, we're gonna look at Jesus too. This is great, right? So that's where we got off
We're gonna invade this time by the way, we have to take these sources
Because some you're about to get taught the Bible
Yes, you are
Yeah dark ages
Dark ages, you're about to find out
The Jehovah is the ultimate authority
Yeah
Fantastic coming to a school near you. Here's what we're gonna do. This guy's a mogus
I just want you to see that he's a mogus this guy's Simon, right? It's the guys like this
What are guys like Simon doing? What are they doing? They're making mysteries
making mysteries of what
mysteries of the flowing
That flowing from the body
that which is
shameful
shameful
I'm gonna show you a couple of Greek terms
We're talking about the mysteries
What kind of mysteries are being exercised by the followers of Jesus and it turns out it's the mystery of
your body fluids
Did you think I was joking you're gonna get a description of it hit it with them they need it splash these people
They need it. We're talking about that which flows out of the men
Apple Royce the stuff that comes out of the men that's flowing stuff
That's part of it. Give me the next one. These are gonna be quick chewy. Oh, what else are we talking about?
We're talking about that solo gay
that
Syllogy that collection that is the that is the dirty
the naughty
That is the stuff that is we don't talk about it the Brits translated as dirt
in 1850 at least
They'd use that the dirt of
the
eminion
What is the eminion that is the monthly?
catharsis the monthly purge you dumb man
If you knew the monthly purge, you'd know why we're using it in the mystery
I'll take one of those give me the next one I
Could use a monthly purge. How come I don't get a monthly purge
Look people
This section is gonna blow your mind and I'm just gonna translate it to you
I'm gonna give it right to you that climax. I told you about that. We were coming to here. It is look
We're gonna translate it and then I'm gonna stop and I'm gonna appreciate
The elegance of this Greek because this is really elegant Greek
Epiphanious
He's got a little bit of the poet's pin going. He's a composer
this thing reads like a
Beautiful composition
Love it. Thank you. Oh god. He knew the Greek, you know, he walked around
That's how he was known at the time and he was master of five languages some
Pope persona who was no, it wasn't a pope. It was some it's too early
It was a bishop or somebody who called him some famous author. I don't remember anyway
They said he was the master of the five languages, right?
Yeah, fantastic. Well, he's able to learn his Greek
Right, and that's what really makes him such a great writer is he's able to use that instrument
You know, what are you gonna use if you're a samurai? You're gonna pick that sword. You're not gonna take a butter knife
Right the butter knife of Hebrew just can't cut the mustard. You know what I mean?
Who toss me an egg on
Take the unknown look what I you know, there was this guy
Okay, this is epiphanious talking about early Christians
One of these early Christians. He said he had this twisted mind
It was all twisted up from that crazy
demon demonic
magic
that he was doing and the
Fantasies the hallucinations that he was seeing
This dude remember he's a he's a Christian people
right, he's
Following the Christing
Okay, just wait just wait. What does he say? He says this guy was ready
always always ready to what to demonstrate
his
total evil and his
demon
activity
He was always always wanting to show that off that stuff. He did through his magic and
What how did he do it? He did it openly? He did it openly and
He did it on the pretext of
the name
Christ
He did it in connection
with the act of
Christing
Okay, okay, are you ready? What exactly did he do?
He made a death-inducing drug he mixed hella bore with honey and he gave it to his
crazy followers and
Following this axiom of the name of Christ, he put them to death
Next one I
Told you those drugs were there for the right
What you are seeing
Is the right?
He's giving them the death inducer
He's allowing them to go through the initiation
So that they'll come out on the other side now watch what happens
Yeah, we're talking about that mixing with medicines. That's fine
It's what you see look or bases by luminous Galen all of those people medical people, right?
Go to the next one. What happens next what happens next? Oh my god
Look these people
They follow this goddess everything okay, that's high fighters coming in or something. No, they follow this goddess
Barbello
Right I can't see it's too tiny. It's too tiny hang on put the deflectors up. There you go
and
Okay
There we are we're worshiping Barbello. Wait a minute. What um, why are we worshiping Barbello?
because we are the followers of the Christ and
You know what they say about her. I'm translating. You know what they say about her
They say she's that queen of the 8th heaven. Yeah, and that she was
Produced by her father. She was brought into
Reality by her father boom and if this starts to sound like
Athena don't be surprised
This is typical mystery, right? This is the virgin
The mother
Yeah, so who are the people long story short who are the people who were doing this the Jews
Those who worship sabba off
Yes, you mean this is the early first century and
The Jews in the early first century are not worshiping
The Jehovah that I know and love
Now they're not sorry
Yes, no
They're worshiping the child
The child of Barbello
Who rules the seventh?
heaven and
He rules by tyranny. Give me the next one. Give me the next one. Who is this?
This is Jehovah, baby
Right, look at the sabba off the top there. How does Jehovah rule the seventh heaven remember?
I'm telling you what the people who are with Jesus are thanking and doing and
How it relates to the practice of their mysteries
These are the mysteries of the body's
fluids
flesh and blood
Drinking and eat it or you're not on your way to paradise
Give me the no, what are we gonna do?
Seventh heaven ruler Jehovah. He said he's a jerk
He's a tyrant here. It says he rules with complete force and
What does it also say? Oh, he goes around saying hope Amy hop roto sky will met a talta
I am the first and the last and
Without me there is no other God
Beyond me. There's no other God
Except for me. No other God
Does that sound familiar to you?
Does anybody here wake up Jesus?
Maybe he'll say something like it watch I can put put my hand and make him talk hit
What's happening here when I saw him I fell on my to his feet, you know what I mean?
Oh the glory. Oh, and I fell down like I was dead
There's a lot of that going around
And what does it say here? What does it say here? Is it don't be afraid?
Don't be afraid, right? I
Am the first and the last
Of course he is because this is the same position in the same mystery
Where is that spell?
Where is that spell?
To find the male lover where who do I in who do I call on for that?
Lord Sabbath. Yeah, oh
Jehovah
That is the earliest expression of
The Jewish mystery God
That's it. It's in the text. We have it in concrete
Love it
Love it. Let's see where he goes. Let's see where he goes with it. It's gonna get bad people
Just wait. Just wait hit me with the next one because what kind of mysteries am I talking about?
Right, I'm talking about
the mystery of the iscrologia
the mystery of the
shameful
logos
The mystery of the shameful sayings the shameful utterances
Are you ready for this you didn't know you were coming
Didn't you see on the banner the three X's that were up there?
What are you? What are you thanking? Get your get out of here, right? Cover your eyes
No, of course, you don't want to you. You want to see this. Are you ready for this mystery?
It's it's really out there. This is what they're doing under the name of Christ. Here's another
Here's another one for the New Testament. What does it say here?
Look, it says the things that they do in secret
these things it's
Icecron to even speak
It's literally icecron leg in
They're speaking the ice
chronology
Remember Paul
Remember Paul when we when we met up with St. Paul after the party and he was like, oh god
I don't know if I was there. I don't know if I was in somebody else's body or shooting up in the spirit
I don't know where I was, but I saw things that you can't speak about
And that was only the third heaven
Imagine what the dude who's in the seventh is doing
I
Am
Amen, give me the next one. Oh love it
I'm so hungry tonight
Give it to me
People I want to introduce you to an ancient concept. Are you ready? Taste ice crew?
Yes, say it one more time ice crew
Yes
Are you ready? You want to know what this is? This is what their rights are doing
Mmm. Let's pull up a Victorian the dead Victorian. Come here Frederick
No, this is Alfred Fredericks from over that way. This is Alfred Alfred. Tell me
What is it to do an ice crew to get oh to act that way? It's to act obscenely says Alfred
Oh, you're you're always so vague
What is that especially it equals
master body
Master barry, do you know any master bar? I don't know master bar. Who's master barry?
I think what that is. Oh, of course Chewie. It's Latin. It's Latin Chewie. Yes, that's exactly
Exactly what it is. It is to
masturbate
The mystery involves the sacred
masturbation
Now I am speaking to you as an anthropologist people. I'm speaking to you as an anthropologist
I just want you to appreciate the historicity of what we're doing
We're talking about the early Christians
Who are Jews?
Engaging in the master barry
Okay
They have a mystery
Involved you want to see Jesus do it who wants to see Jesus look what I
Why what have you done?
Satanic congregation. What have you done to deserve a date like this? What have you done? I
Am gonna bring to you. No, this is for me
That's for being so good. I am gonna bring to you
The image right out of antiquity of Jesus Christ the son of God
masturbating
Yeah, it took Mary off to she was like, huh?
Yeah, right Mary Magdalene, right she's like, uh
I
Let's see him do it. We got you tonight Jesus. We got you tonight. This is for Jesus everybody
Everybody help me concentrate
Concentrate the energy. Well, yeah, I don't know how that stuff works really
But help me can you just thank for me for one minute? Just think about Jesus and think about spanking Jesus
Yeah, let's spank Jesus. Come on. Come here Jesus Christ. He touched me
Oh, he touched me
Are you ready for this we don't deserve it. Let's go for it. Let's go for it. Yes, Jesus Christ
Jesus Christ
Jesus Christ hit me with the next one chewy. We need to get them the full inoculations
What are we talking about people? I say we're talking about
that which flows out of
The reproductive parts
We're talking about the cotton may neon
Okay, thank administration
Here's what we're doing. Are you ready? We're gonna bring it with we're gonna bring the drugs with administration with
Jesus and the
Masterbation are you ready believe it or not all of that
That's the ingredients for a very successful
Christian cult
Whose practices are Jewish
Okay
Fantastic
Fantastic, this is the earliest one people. I'm telling you nobody wants to show you this stuff
But we're gonna see it because pretty soon the only thing we're gonna be able to read the Bible
So here you go. Give me the next one
Who do we not epiphanious? Who do we not want to be involved? Hold the obolus?
The devil why he's always using this stuff and he's bringing blasphemy
He's bringing blasphemy
Well, at least they're right about some things. Give me the next one
Shoo
This is good. Are you ready? What are we talking about? We're talking about that which runs out of both men and women
I just want you to see that. This is a complete communion
This is not just one side
Right, you need both you need balance if you're gonna have a really good cult
Okay, are you ready? Give me the next one
Who is it epiphanious that you really really hate being the bishop of Cyprus
Or a bishop on Cyprus. What?
What do you really hate? You hate the erotic
Poetry rinds you hate that erotic living that comes from Cypress and when I say Cypress
I mean Aphrodite. Who is it that the bishop hates most?
Aphrodite why why bishop do you hate her so much?
Because she is the one who brought these rights
Yeah
fantastic, right take the creator and
Turn her into a
Masculine form
Yeah
That's what we have to do. That's how you make the cult work and that's what
Just a handful of people did and swayed
World history by doing so
Epiphanious was one of these dudes who went out and like he went very famously to some church in Palestine
Yeah, and he was there and
And somebody had embroidered the some kind of I don't know it was a tapestry of some sort rug or something
curtain maybe and it had a picture of a dude and he was like we don't want any
pictures and
made him destroy it and
Sent him a new one or something. I don't know
He ultimately going back, but this is the kind of person that we're dealing with and it took just a handful of
This kind of persuasion just to take over and pilot
Western history right into the garbage dump. It was fantastic a lot of years of darkness called the dark ages
Not necessarily because of the sunlight
Yeah, it's all that library burning there doing
Did you learn all ten yet? Do you have your commandments down? You know in the future they look back to
2024 and they wonder
Why what were those people thanking?
It's gorgeous. I love it. You got to remember this is the kingdom. This is the kingdom of the devil, baby
It's the kingdom of the devil
Everybody forgets that
Give me the next one. Boom. What are we looking at? We're looking at do we skip any maybe we skip some?
Yep, no, that's fine go
We're looking at these people and what what are these people doing by the way who are involved in the mysteries like Jesus
mixing the body fluids
What are they writing? They're writing Gospels of Eve
They were on galeon a was
Isn't that gorgeous?
Gospels of Eve
Really, I told you I told you
Another way to date the Septuagint people right fantastic. Give me the next one
Now Dan
duck tails
Dan he
Said I couldn't believe it when he said that I was like ouch. I mean that even hurt me a little bit. I was like, oh
right
It's not this word is not found right anytime as a scholar
You can't argue or you can't say all the time and you can't say the majority because you don't know
Unless you have some kind of breakdown statistically you're working with
programs
Right, which they're getting to that point right and they have been there for a while
but
Dan said this word is not gonna use anytime you hear a scar say no, you're not gonna find this word used anywhere by
So-and-so and so-and-so that's you know, they're nope
I know for a fact that you don't know what you're talking about right here
What did Dan tuck tails Dan say? He said look what happens is
The oysters it doesn't exist in the Christian text at all right old boy found one right away
Here's another one and happens to be in the very
section that we're reading
The very work
Talks about and it's a Christian
Dan said you will not find this word in Christian texts
You know when somebody makes a blanket statement like that. That's you can't trust what they're saying
It's bad scholarship brought bad form
Nothing against you personally duck tails damn, but that's bad form bad form here. It is here. It is in
Epiphanious
What are we doing people in the cult we are going into the estrus?
We're going into the mania
Right
Maniac Jesus are you ready? Let's see maniac Jesus. What's he doing now?
If anybody gets pictures of Jesus here as
I describe him to you those will become immediately illegal
Are you ready for this so draw the picture in your mind? Yeah, let's blow it up
After they mixed together in their sexual passion
These he's describing these Christians, what do they do after they mixed together in their sexual passion they stretch out
They burst forward with all of these blasphemies
up to the heavens
Yeah, and they receive the female part and the man the female
Emission and the man
Right, he receives their standing there and he receives the seed from his own hand
And he holds it up
Right looking up into heaven
Having it in his hand, what does he have in his hand says everything's he's got that a catharsian
Remember in the apocalypse
Revelation what what we're talking about. We're talking about the a catharsia. He's holding it in his hand
And he says no really he is Nathan. So I'm serious brah
Give me the next one and what's he do? Oh god, I don't know if we can see Jesus like this
This is right. He's talking about Christians right now. Let's we're gonna watch Jesus. And what does he do?
Look at the second line at the end the epicae at us the air contest. He has the
as he has that
Bodily fluid that came from him that he ejaculated he holds it up to the heavens and he prays
That's what these Gnostics are doing and
What does he say what do they say when they do this they say we bring to you this gift
It's talking about he's talking about his ejaculate, which is in his hands
We're bringing to you this gift with the body of
The Christ
Do you know what the body of Christ is the body of Christ the body of Christ when you are sitting in church next time
I want you to feel something
And I want you to thank
When they say body, I'm gonna thank
A catharsia
I'm gonna thank that foulness
They came out of that
Christians
Private parts
That's the body that's why they say it the body of Christ
When you go to your church and he offers you the body of Christ, I want you to see
the
Pilth the
Polition I want you to see it eyes open eyes open. This is the Ludovico way
right
Right, right, right?
My droogs
Welcome give me the next one hit it and what happens here? What happens here? Oh, did I finish the other one?
You better go back make sure I finished that other one. Oh
No, no, no, oh, chewy. It's a good thing. We came back look at so he's got it in his hand and
Holding it in his hand right and saying oh, this is the gift right the gift of the Christ
What happens then they take it and
They eat it
That's what it says they take it and they eat it and when they eat it
They say tuto estito soma to Christu. This is the body of Christ. This is the pascal offering
This is how we get into the passion of Christ, that's how it ends
Okay, you eat it
To this to this point in the history of my
many many many
eons, I have never
ever
Witness such a
Gut-turning
cult as
the Christians
Never
Remember he said these are Jewish people
Performing those mysteries. These are the same mysteries
That you pray to Jehovah if you want a gay lover
Okay
Same mysteries. There's sex all over now. You can see what they're doing. You can see what they're doing. They're
Holding up there semen and praying. This is the body
Hi, can you imagine to imagine at your church if you went into your church?
And at the end when you know, I love you seeing your hymns
Past the collection plate and the guy gets up there and blah blah blah
And then while you're getting ready to go and you're like, oh, I'm so getting so tired and everybody stands up and the priest comes out
Masterbates in front of you
Takes this semen and holds it up
Says here's the body come and get it
This is the real
How does that feel?
This is the real
I mean not that I wouldn't mind
getting in a
Time machine and going back. Maybe documenting it right making a documentary about it. Don't be wrong. I would love to do that
Right. Um
Rubs it in our eyes right watch. She's coming. Were you there?
Give it to me the next one give it to me. Okay people are you ready? I'm just going to translate this one to you. Okay, so
Yeah, so, um
The dude, you know in his own hand. He's got that he's got that stuff and he's standing there looking up in heaven
This is we did this one. This is what we just did go
Yep, here we go. Yeah now for those of you who thought what about the children?
Don't worry on the menu of this christian banquet
Is the imbron
I'm sorry stop stop. It's not funny. It's not funny
Shame on me. It's not funny
It's the embryo
Right, what are we going to do? You know what this passage says you're going to take that embryo
You're going to cut it up into little pieces and then you're going to put those pieces in honey
You're going to add drugs and oh a lot of mura
Right a lot of that stuff that mary's walking around with you're going to add that all up here
Everybody gets their own little communion cube
It's the chocolates of the pie. Do you of the little kid?
isn't
Okay, next
I can only stand so much of that
If you want to stay away look people with me anybody who stayed tan at congregation
You want to stay from the embryo or do or you know?
No, it's not or derbs you want to stay away from the the babycube or derbs
Yeah
I was going to say or der
That's different. That's the member. We'll go to that room and come out all covered with the poopy
All right. Give me the next one. Give me. Oh, there it is. Okay. Now. What's happening in here?
Don't forget we're going to use the running of the blood that comes from the monthly cycle
That is all part of it and it's called the blood
Of the non purgation and what are we going to do?
Um, we're going to all in common. We're going to s the uc
We're going to watch does not say what I think it does. Yes, it says we're going to eat it
The blood
and the flesh
Ladies and gentlemen at the banquet of the christian mystery
The blood and the flesh you wanted you wanted them. They're served. Remember
The witches bank where the food is always terrible
so
I highly recommend you take one of the baby cubes
All right, you take one of the little cops of menstrual fluid
and you know
You at least don't insult the host
And I love it. Okay. Who want wait are people? What's that people are messaging me? They want their ticket
They want their ticket money back, right? Did you didn't think that's what they're serving at the banquet?
I wonder, you know in all curiosity, I just wonder about those baby cubelets
Why honey?
Why honey?
Yeah, I don't know. Have they served the hella bore yet?
All right. Are you ready? I bet you need it. I'll bet it's got something in it
Some kind of chemicals you need it to balance the hella bore that's there about to poison you with
I don't know. It's just the thought. Hey, by the way, we all sign waivers, right? Everybody's just here tonight
You can't go back. You can't go back, right? Give me the next
Oh people look what look what else I brought look what else I brought
No, that's it next one
Look at this. Okay. Now. Here's jesus
It's for some of you who wanted to see jesus here in the whole midst of this
He says look epiphanes says look they write all sorts of books. I'm translating
They write all sorts of books, right? One of these is the questions of mary
Right. We're talking mary magslyn
One of these is the questions of mary and they talk about these different gods and whatnot in those books
And they talk about adam
Right. They they have the a book called the revelation of adam
Right adam is not a hebra name, right? It's a greek name. By the way, did you see
those
People in palestine did you see they have greek dna?
I love that. I love that right was learning about yourself is amazing. It's amazing
And what happens they've got other gods
Bulls, you know, I mean and some of them are attributed to those apostles, right?
That they know they talk about the salvation
Right and what oh no
Look at the look at the last word
Look at the last line
Jesus christ himself reveals the ice
Gion what was the ice crew gion? That's when we master body and then we ate it
How does he get away how does he get away? It's because mr. Rogers knows how to speak to the kids
Yeah, are you ready ready? Oh, there's more here. There's more here. Hmm. Uh, yep next one the ice school gia
So let's go see jesus do the ice crew gia
Right. Are you ready?
You will never think of jesus ever the same way again. You're welcome
Right. So he took the one
Right. Well, here's he starts out by saying look it says in the questions of mary that are called the greater questions of mary
And he says there are others that are called the the minor questions
Anyway, he says from this greater questions of mary. They have it inserted in there
What what's the he reveals it to her jesus reveals this mystery to mary the mystery
Do you know how many times is an eighth grader what I have gone around revealing the mystery
If if I could have done that like jesus what kind of act does this guy? Oh jesus, what were you thinking? It's such a bad line
I'm gonna show you the mysteries
I'm gonna show you the mysteries. What are the mysteries involved jesus? What are they involved?
they uh
There we are um, well, uh, let me tell you this uh, mary. I gotta take you up into the hills
She should have known she should
Why can't we do it here in the courtyard?
I gotta take you up in the hills right and so he took her up in the hills
And then the greek is very interesting. It's here. It says he took from his side
the woman
He took from this from his side
the woman
Do you notice that it's using the very same cold expression that's used in the book of genesis for eve
For eve. Okay, fantastic. Remember they're writing gospels of eve and what happens it says he took her
right and um, then it says that he began to do what he began to incat amignus thigh
with her
And most people will well, I'll say most people I'll say um, everybody is gonna want to translate this is have intercourse with
The only problem is it's not
It's not to have intercourse with as a matter of fact. It's used
as a way of mixing drugs
As a way a method of mixing drugs right in other words the communion
The communion itself he began mixing the communion with her and he says i'm not kidding
Right, he took the stuff that came out of him
And what what happened?
It's nest he says it's necessary to do this in order that we may live
Right
They entered into the act of collecting his fluid. He was doing it right in front of her just wait. She's gonna get confused
He's just started
Jesus just starts masturbating
In front of mary
Okay, and he says we got to do this if we want to live
Remember last time
Remember last time when his family came and picked him up remember that and they're like he is cray cray
Right, he's out of his mind. Well now
He's with the woman up in the hills
masturbating
Saying if they don't do what he's about to show her
They're gonna die
You remember the lie and the garden of Eden that god said if you eat it you'll die
Right
Like father like son
Let's let's go the next one. Yeah
Let's see what how he's standing there, right? We've got to we've caught him in the middle of masturbation. We can't tell
Yeah, producing woman from the side beginning to have sex with her, right? That's the christian reed of that. Okay
Give me the next one. Um, here's the mixing, right? Look at the second line down
Father macon potoy. What are they doing? You can mix a drug into a potion. They're getting the communion ready
They're not having sex
He is simply masturbating in front of her to produce the the flesh
Yeah
bread of life
Give me the next one. Hmm. I'm gonna translate this quickly people. Don't leave don't leave now because
What happens?
Right. Okay. So
Mary she tarak
Tarak they says she becomes Tarasso is a verb that means to become
Mentally it's almost it's not really frightened. It's confused
and like
What is this that's going on? It's in it's like you're trying to grasp your questioning. Is this really happening?
Right, so it says Mary was in that and she fell backwards
She moved backwards from and fell to the ground
Right now if you thought it's kind of weird if they're having intercourse
That now all of a sudden they're standing. It's like we missed a cutscene or something
Right, that's why they're not having intercourse. He starts masturbating and Mary backs off
Falls over stumbles over
What happens he walks over
Picks her up off the ground and he says to her
Oh you of little faith
Well, I don't know I don't know man. You had it in your hand. What do you know?
And and what happens and they say then that this is the
Uh, this is that which is spoken of in the gospel when the gospel writer says
How is it?
Right if I say to you
Things that have to do with the earth and you don't believe it
What are you going to do when I tell you about those heavenly things? How are you going to believe it then?
Right because it's a big deal to pull out your private parts and start
you know
Bringing yourself to climax in front of a person
It's difficult
How are you going to take anything if you you can't even take the plain stuff?
I give you how are you going to take this mystery?
That's why he's single single singled out mary
To participate in the mystery. Okay. Let's see what else he says and whenever they says
Whenever they say um, you see the son of man. Oh, behold look at look at the son of man rising up
Right who was that who was alive before who who was the previous?
Existence what you know, it's a verse from the you're gonna find it in the bible right in the new testament
What does he say? He says they're saying this because
That is the thing when you talk about the rising up they're talking about
The producing the aporia and taking it manually from its source
right
The rising up of the christ
Yeah, that's why you say that
Oh my god, and what is what he says? Um, also remember they say if you don't eat it
If you don't know i'm sorry. I misquoted there says if you don't eat me
Right if you don't eat my flesh
And drink my blood remember that phrase if you don't eat my flesh and drink drink my blood
And when he started talking like that it says his disciples got really confused
Right and they say who can listen to this crap
He's talking right there's he's talking about
His argument is all about the semen
Who can who can take this stuff who can stand to listen to this?
You didn't know that jesus christ was abandoned at one point in his ministry by his followers
This was that point
They walked away from what was the issue that they walked away from about?
The masturbation thing
Yeah, the masturbation
Imagine how many people were following him at that point
Right, he had been through communities and done his healing and done his you know
He had to stand on the shore. It was so crowded. He had to stand out in a boat
People were there to see him
He didn't get the crowd in his hometown because they knew him as hometown, right?
Do you understand
The guy is in up in the countryside with the woman and he's jerking off in front of her telling her if we don't eat this
Oh
My god
Your reality is hilarious
Your reality is hilarious
It is absolutely hilarious
Please
Please show us the end
Okay, let's keep going. Let's keep going here. Um, and what happens
This is just going to go on to quote things that he's trying to help you interpret
No, blow it up
He's trying to help you interpret the mysteries as they appear and there's stuff that david said, you know, there's be this
Um, this tree that'll be in a place that's nourished by the waters and he says that that's not what that means
Right, you know what that means and in cult speak
He's talking about those waters running out of that erect
Um member of jesus. That's what he's talking about. He's talking about the eyes
Toss to andros. He's talking about the ejaculate of the person man
right
That's what he means when he says the moving out of the waters and well, you know, he's gonna give us the
The fruit what do you think that fruit is that tree?
Right those leaves it says the leaves will never fall
That's something the leaves he says. That's not what you think it is
You know why because we eat the stuff
It never falls from the tree
Never makes contact with the earth
the seed
Why?
Because we eat it
Oh, please
Please make a stop my splash bag is full
Is anybody else a splash bag full?
All right, I think I only I think that's people I think I've got one or two more
But I don't think I can take much more
This is this is too much. Look what's happening here. Yeah, it's just what I just told you
Look at the very last word s theoman. We're gonna eat it. I just want you to focus on that
I can't take this. I can't take this. I only take so much time in this
In in the ether. Okay. Here's what I'm gonna do
I am going to now play the exit, but I'm not exiting
Right, I'm just going to go get the drill sergeant and he is going to give you
Just the basics that you need to know from unit two and he's going to tell you
Go to see the videos that old boy is producing
Because old boy is helping you to walk through the particulars of the chapter
While omen is giving you the big guns that you need to know the things you must master
And show up on a Saturday
We've got two groups now on Saturday one for the Aussies that'll be later in our afternoon over here in the states
And I believe four central four central here central standard, right? And um
Otherwise there will be an 11
Central 11 central right now 12 central
Oh
Nancy's gonna kill me. Nancy. Don't kill me. I think it's uh, it's either 11 or 12 central
It'll say somewhere we'll post it, but you can go to these labs and you can find out
Um, where you stand how things are going. They'll operate the dojo. Those are graduate students. You didn't realize of it
This is the biggest great course in history and we have graduate students
We've got to run this thing like a university would run it a free university. Look, it's fall for free
Right. No, you're selling your soul
Just kidding
don't
Do the master parry thing
unless
You're with jesus definitely always stick with jesus. Um, bring up the exit
No, you love it. Wish you were here rolling other
The beast is purple dragons inhale the indica
Reakin it
My weed is sticky
Chickadilla poisonous kisses
That girl, you know, she's got it
Hail satan
We'll do this all the way to the roads. We'll pave a ride a bear horse in the sunshine
Blue tone big time wolf man
Hillside root cutter grow it
Don't bring a shinin in the morning. They puff a little bit of the chronic
Poisonous dragon venom darkness through dreams frankincide tells up on the hill. I make it rain
I spit the hot fire yells the bubbles versus make sure they got funny ears on the gold horns
Smoking indica purple of the Sabbath. I'm teddy bass. Mr. Black magic singing hallelujah
Deepest creepers hot purple move you root cutter evergreen tree grower
The anti christ you dream of thunder from on high venus in the sky
Heavy on the drums 808 funk black ecmania
Medea dance with me
Where the purple flowers grow
Those with eyes to see
A kiss of Athena
Dream of satan
Uranus venus dress
Roots grow from the stars overhead
Orchid comes to the moon
Oracle ritual
With a kiss and a whip
Lady Babylon is with you
Thank you, teddy bass
Let's get to a couple of slides of what you absolutely must know from unit two
From unit two. This is what I want you to be memorizing and working on
When you start the exercises remember the exercises are at the end of every unit
Those are the course that you will run if you can translate those exercises
You can go on
Here we go bring up the first chart
I want you to look at a verb people. I want you to look at this verb and I want you to memorize this verb
This is one verb. It is six parts. We call those parts principle
The principal parts of the verb there are six of them
You should be able to say that in your sleep. Are you ready?
This is the one you're going to memorize and you will never memorize another
You will learn others, but this one you will memorize
luo
luso
elusa
leluca
leluma
eluthane
Those are the six principal parts from the first comes the present and the imperfect from the second comes the future
From the third comes the heiress
From the fourth comes the perfect from the fifth comes the perfect passive and from the sixth the heirest
passive
I want you to concentrate because in this chapter. We're going to use
The first two principal parts
luo and luso. What does luo mean? It means I release or I dissolve or I free
Can also mean I destroy and you can take this one root and combine it with
umpteen
prefixes and have vocabulary that's bigger than any oscan umbrain or Hebrew vocabulary from antiquity
Just from this word
Fantastic. Give me the next one those are the principal parts of the verb now to the to those principal parts
You can add these endings
You can add these endings. This is what you must memorize. See this chart
There are three on the left and three on the right
The three on the left are singular the three on the right are plural
We've got in the first line the first person second second third third
So what do we have here? We have the first person singular I
We have the second person singular you
third person singular he she or it
And then we start off on the in the other column
What's the first person plural we second person plural you all you all
Third person plural they I want you to remember that I you he she it we you they
Because you're gonna have to run through that list in your head if you want to say I do something
You're gonna have to know which one is I
If you want to say you do some you're gonna have to know which one is you and this is how you tell
It's by the end of the word. Isn't that clever?
What are the endings that you must know? You're gonna memorize them just like this. Oh
a
Omen ete usi
Oh a
Omen ete usi
Oase a omen ete usi
Now look at the third person plural. You notice it says or us in
You can put a new
Moveable the new is the letter correct and you can add that to the end
Why are you going to see this lot in the third person both singular and plural? You can add a new to the end of it
Why would you want to?
Why would you want to because if that word comes right before a word that starts with a vowel?
There's gonna be an uncomfortable pause and this is music
Language is music
I thought I didn't know language was music. No, you didn't and that's why you're here
Music
And it sounds better when you've got a consonant between those two vowels it flows
We want this to flow
You saw the flow tonight. I hear with jesus. This is the flow of the language
This you must eat
Give me the next one
It's better than what he was serving
So all we do is we add that little letter to the ending
We add the oase a omen ete usi to the ending and look at the verb here. We take the verb paide wo
It means to educate
Paide wo I educate paide ways you educate paide way. He sheer it educates paide omen
We educate paide wo te you educate paide wo sin
They educate it's that simple. It's that simple. That's all you need to be able to do
You need to be able to look at the greek word and say paide ways. That's a second
person singular you
You singular do something. That's all you have to know. It's really that easy. Give me the next one
It's all logic people
Now i'm going to give you a set of endings. I just gave you the present
I do something in the present if you want to say I did something
Then you have to use these imperfect endings. I did or I was doing
Here are your endings on os a omen ete on
On os a omen ete on on os a omen ete on you should be able to say that in your sleep when I tutor students privately
I forced them to go through these and some
to you know
Some don't want to do it. Some don't want to if you do it
It'll stick it's imprinting it in your brain and that's part of the intensive method
If you don't sit there and repeat to yourself so that your spouse is upset with you
What are you saying in the shower? I'm saying my endings darling shut up
If your spouse doesn't do that
You um, you're not doing the right thing these you need to imprint these on your brain
We're at the point in the game
Where we need to imprint you need to learn how to march and this is how you march on os a omen ete on
Give me the next one. That was the imperfect
This is the heiress another tense. What am I teaching you? I'm teaching you the present the imperfect and the heiress
Those are called tenses
Tenses don't think time
tense
What kind of tense is the heiress? It's a simple action in the past. I did it
I ate
Today I can eat
Yesterday I ate
All right, the imperfect would be was eating
I was in the act of eating your mind goes right to the person doing the thing
The heiress is just simply referencing a past action
And what are the endings there? Ah os a omen ete on ah os a omen ete on
Look at the third person singular. You got that little movable new that's in there
Don't memorize the movable new because it's not always going to show up
Just memorize ah os a omen ete on
Beautiful ah os a omen ete on and finally
Finally what other
What what other thing must you learn in unit two you must learn the infinitive the infinitive is easy
Infinitive is easy. What is it? You take a verb and you add aim to the ending
And what happens when you do you make an infinitive and it means to do something here by Daewon
to educate
To educate by Daewon
Yeah, it never changes. It's always going to look like aim
That's the present
active infinitive
Gorgeous to do something now that is all
Of the grammar and syntax that you need to learn from unit two
You've learned
The three new tenses you learn the present the imperfect and you learn the heiress
Okay, now
The present and the imperfect will be formed
From the first principle part
The heiress will be formed from the third
The third you got to use the third principle part and when you use the heiress in the imperfect
You got to put an epsilon on the front of the verb
We'll see this when we do exercises next time we're going to do exercises
We'll um, you'll see an epsilon on the front. It's called an epsilon augment and it indicates that you either have an imperfect
an heiress
Or pluperfect you have a secondary tense
The tenses are divided into two families
primary and secondary primary tenses
present future perfect
secondary tenses imperfect heiress pluperfect
I want you to just keep that in mind for now
Keep that in mind for now
Fantastic
That is the basic functioning of verbs now what I want you to do is I want you to jump in
To the exercises from unit two
Jump into the exercises from unit two
If you can please
Go to one of the labs
Go to the discord on saturday
You can go you can show up for the osse section
If you're not osse
I'm sure that they won't give you a hard time, right?
Um, fantastic. I want to thank everybody for coming tonight and I want you
to remember
I really really do care for you. I wouldn't
Give this material to you unless I knew
This will help
This will help
Thank you muse for the dope
Thank you for the night
Hail satan
To the roads were paved a ride a bear horse from the sunshine
Blue tone big time wolf man
Hillside root cutter grow it
Dawn bring a shining in the morning
They puff a little bit of the chronic
Poisonous dragon venom darkness through dreams frankin sides house upon the hill I make it rain
I spit the hot fire heels above versus make sure they got funny ears on the gold horns
Smoking indica purple of the Sabbath. I'm teddy base. Mr. Black magic singing hallelujah
Jeepers creepers hot purple move you root cutter evergreen tree grower the anti christ you dream of thunder from unhigh
Venus in the sky
Heavy on the drums 808 funk bar kick mania
MacDia dance with me
Where the purple flowers grow
Those with eyes to see
A kiss of Athena
Dream of Saturn
Uranus Venus dress
Roots grow from the stars overhead
Orchid hymns to the moon
Oracle ritual
With a kiss and a whip
Lady Babylon is with you
