I'm back from my secret mission.
Whisper in, dance with the musicians.
Toxic venom, it be a kiss.
Stance into the bank, cash and checks.
Cracking whips, Athena with a dark tip.
Maltese island, sacred drift.
Catherine of the water, purple amethyst.
She could be a plus one on the list.
Bumping tracks in the ride, dark harbor.
High tide, all wheel drive.
Pocketing with the theory act.
Pauling from India, we throw pedophiles to the lions.
I'm with a rogue group of Roman rebels,
who make rope and fashion crosses.
The root cutters with the black arrows.
But to your dragon queen,
snake with your darkest dreams.
Come to your history,
dance with the musicians.
But to your dragon queen,
snake with your darkest dreams.
Come to your history,
dance with the musicians.
Thank you for coming back.
It's so nice to be here with you tonight,
because I have some special things
that I'm going to share with you tonight.
A couple of big announcements,
and then we're going to throw some sources in there
that are going to lay the foundation
for the Renaissance.
I love this. I love this.
I wanted to tell you about who I spent some time with.
I just got back from a secret mission.
I just got back from a secret mission.
And that secret mission
involved my meeting.
Danny Jones.
And what an amazingly cool character.
This guy is dense as iron.
He is a solid.
He's an earthy metal.
This guy, you could fashion a sword out of Danny Jones.
And I thought he was the best interview
I have ever had.
He is a magnet
for the music song.
And he did his research, man.
He read the whole chemical muse.
Danny, if you ever see this,
if you're doing that,
there's nothing better
than having your work critiqued
by someone of your level of cognition.
It's nice. It shows me.
Love it. Love it.
It was a wonderful experience.
And this guy, Danny, is so cool.
I'm serious. He's right at the top.
I had the best day of my life, man.
I told him that.
And he will be, you know, he and Chewie, right?
His Chewie is Steve with a pH.
And these are two of the most aggressively
renaissance characters that I have ever seen in my life.
This is fantastic.
The watchers are going to be watching and saying,
my God, man, what have you done?
Right? It's just the perfect combination.
Oh, we have such good stuff.
We have such good stuff.
So Danny read the whole chemical muse,
and then he came in and said, you know,
he wanted to ask questions, tough questions.
What were you doing when you were a teenager?
Yeah. Yeah, stuff like that.
Good questions.
He tracked where, you know,
the education was coming from, right?
And so, by the way, there will be two versions of this.
I've made it, you know, so far to where, you know,
how it is, we got to discuss the dirty stuff.
All you Satan, all you Satan worshipping people,
you know what I mean?
Oh, by the way, that was his first question.
That was his first question.
What do you mean by Hail Satan?
Yeah, I love it.
I love it.
So this was a great, a great opportunity
that I'm very thankful for.
And it'll be released in a YouTube form.
That is the Disney version.
Right? It's not actually Disney,
but it's the form that we got up to before.
I just couldn't take it anymore.
Everybody knows how I am, right?
Yeah, just got to let it go.
I got to get it out there.
And I said some things there with Danny
that I've never said and discussed
because I'm an open book.
I'm an open book, right?
Everybody knows that. Everybody knows.
So this should be fantastic.
And I think that there will be enough for you,
my Satanic congregation.
There will be enough of a fresh look there
for material that I ended up taking like 80 overhead,
you know, 80 passages out there, right?
But we ended up in the middle of a tornado,
a tornadic storm with the sirens blaring
and, oh, God, perfectly timed thunder.
It was gorgeous.
It was me and the muse and Danny
and Steve who ate his popcorn.
It was fantastic.
I want everybody to critique, to get a chance.
When you get a chance to look at that
and to critique it.
Talk about some of the things that you and I talk about.
So, you know, is this man all right?
Yes, he is. Hail Satan.
Yeah, love it.
So look, as soon as that gets out,
I will blurt it all over the place
and make sure everybody gets a chance.
Snappy, send people out.
Make sure everybody gets a chance to do their part,
to critique almond.
Now, what is my surprise for you tonight
before we jump into the orgya?
What is my surprise for tonight?
Tonight, I want to take a couple of minutes
to talk to you about a transformation.
I've gotten to the point where I have,
I cannot answer people who are requesting classes.
Okay, I'm overwhelmed
and I know that there's got to be a way
for this to proceed.
So, what I'm doing is I'm opening up almond you.
Yeah, almond who?
Almond you.
And what we're going to do is I'm going to offer classes.
Yeah, I'm going to offer classes.
And being intensive Greek,
we'll still have an intensive Greek course,
but I'll have prerecorded.
And it'll be something that you can meet in a lab
once a week in groups with me there, right?
So, you still get that one-on-one time kind of.
But in a classroom environment, right, we need,
there's a lot of people that we have to accommodate.
People want the museum.
So, I am putting together almond you currently,
including filming,
and we're going to have a chance to make that thing come true.
That dream, what is that?
What is that thing that's coming true?
Did somebody wish upon a star?
So, yeah, so it should be up and running.
And I want, I wanted to send a message out there to people
who have been getting in touch with me and have been saying,
look, I want to take your class.
I really want to.
I'm going to have a list of classes.
Okay.
And I'm going to continue the classical Greek.
And listen, the training modules may be offensive.
Yeah, take it, take it personally.
Yes, take it personally.
It will be intensive training.
So, I don't have to coddle you and baby you anymore.
This is great.
I have a platform now where I can just work you to death,
where I can take you to that place where your muscles are all sore, right?
Oh, God.
Oh, God, Neil has caught the bug.
He's running around with texts, getting access to the Loeb classical library
for any of my Greek students for a year.
You can get actually get a year membership to the Loeb classical library.
It's a polyglot.
It's got Greek on one side, English on the other.
And it's a fantastic way to build your vocabulary or to pack your vocabulary.
Yes.
Yeah.
It was in the middle of a tornado warning with all the thunder and lightning.
And it was emphasizing exactly.
It was beautiful.
It was nature brought into some kind of cosmic orgiastic beauty.
Oh, God was gorgeous.
And I have a lot of respect.
I have a lot of respect for Danny.
So, he was trying to keep me on track.
And I think he did a good job.
I think he did a good job and I want to thank you.
And we'll see what happens.
Great.
Everybody who is in the group that has to be doing text translation from Herculaneum.
Right.
Don't forget.
Don't forget.
I know that you're still there.
Right.
And I know this is something you're thinking about.
We got to rev up for this.
Right.
We've got to get going because this is all timing.
It's perfect timing.
Right.
It's beautiful.
Beautiful.
By the way, I really hope your eclipse was fantastic.
I hope it was.
I hope it was.
Mine brought a new beginning.
Yeah, it did.
And I want to say, I hope that you will appreciate the interview.
I hope you'll appreciate it and appreciate Danny's skill.
And cool guy.
Cool guy.
I haven't even talked about his, you know, his talents.
Right.
I'm just talking as a human being.
That's how they speak around here.
Okay.
It was a tremendous time.
Everybody, the classes are coming.
Let's get serious.
The classes are coming and I'll have the platform up and going.
And then we can figure out the way to farm an army, a Renaissance army.
For those of you who have the call, you can feel it.
Right.
People write to me.
They're like, I feel it.
I feel the call.
Right.
I can.
It's something's pulling me.
Right.
You may have seen something a little serendipitous.
These people are usually talking about serendipity.
Yes.
Yes.
What is that?
Somebody smack young.
All right.
For those of you who love young, this is for you.
Very bad.
Very bad.
All right.
Let's do this.
Let's do this.
Here's what I've got tonight.
I want to show you a few slides.
But before I do, before you hit the hyperdrive to it, I just want people to know that I've
got several classes that I'm going to go ahead and offer.
I'm going to use this opportunity because Danny asked me in the interviews like, what
did you do after university, after they drove you out of town?
Yeah.
What does one do at that point?
Well, now I have a chance to do something.
Yes.
Yes.
Right.
Now I have a chance to bring back that university.
Only ours is going to be better.
Yeah.
Definitely.
Definitely.
Can you hear the thunderous applause of people?
I've got some classes to offer you.
And I consider taking them.
Of course, we'll have the intensive Greek.
This one will be a strict 20-week course.
You go at your pace, but you have to make the benchmarks in order to pass it.
You got to be up there.
If you can't, you can't.
You just got to work.
And I'll have labs there and I'll be mean to you, right?
But in a good way, in a good way, not in a derogatory kind of way, but in a way to get
you pumped up.
Because one of the things I talked to Danny about was this language makes you smarter.
It makes you smarter.
And people will comment to me and they have for years ever since I've been teaching it.
People come to a point and they realize, oh my God, I'm out thinking of the people around
me.
My husband's a lot dumber than I thought.
Yeah, it's because the Greek does something to your mind.
It causes you to expand.
It causes you to reach out and to stretch in directions that you're not used to stretching
with your foul Anglo-Saxon mouths.
That language that you have is so barbaric English.
So barbaric.
It doesn't matter what dialect, it's barbaric.
And half of its base is Greek.
Okay.
So what we have to do is we have to expose ourselves, those of us who have the call,
to that baptism, that dying of the Greek.
And when you're wearing the purple, yeah, you're ready to fly.
You're ready to go, yeah.
Mind expanding.
Can you believe that?
It's mind expanding, but it's sweating.
This isn't just a pill.
That you're going to take and you're going to go to La La Land.
That's what those religious historians are for.
Yeah, yeah, I'm sorry.
But we have to point out those who are deficient.
You know, come on, man.
They're samurai, right?
You guys know that I'm Ronin.
That's what my publisher told me.
She said, she's from Ronin Press and she said, you're Ronin and that's nice.
That's a compliment because the Ronin were basically outcast.
Their Lord had been overthrown, their Dimeo had been overthrown, they had nowhere to go.
They could just live a life as a samurai, write poetry, do what's right, that kind of
thing, but they got no protection from the Lord.
They're not part of the structure.
They're on the outside, man.
Life is not the same when you're in exile, yeah, right?
Because they're dangerous.
Once your Lord's been lost, you're a dangerous element.
Yeah, fantastic.
Do you see where we are?
That's where we are.
So I was able to talk with Danny about some of that kind of stuff and you can hear Stephen
eating his popcorn in the background.
Okay, give him a hard time for that.
It's a perfect effect.
I mean, it's a perfect effect.
It was gorgeous.
These guys are geniuses.
Absolute geniuses.
I loved it.
I'm going to go back.
Okay, yeah, so what are the courses that I can offer you?
Let's just slow down and let me give you the courses.
So Intensive Greek, I'm going to have a basic Greek lit and a basic Roman lit.
I'm going to go ahead and throw in a little bit of, you know, I'm thinking about cutting
out that side completely to be quite honest because I don't think we have time.
Yeah, I don't think we have time.
We need Greek.
We need Greek.
That's the one that we really need.
So we'll have a Greek literature course then.
Also a myth course because I know people or they want to, I used to teach myth at the
university.
Right?
So I understand.
We'll have an English word roots course.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So I think that one I'm going to incorporate with the literature in order to kind of push
people toward doing the Intensive Greek.
The Intensive Greek is just for those people who really, really want to excel.
I mean, these are the crack troops.
These are the people you send in first to the library.
We get to those beaches, the library.
These are the people we send in first, right?
These are the people who can preserve and protect.
These are, you know, love it.
Love it.
Okay.
And then we'll have a course on cult.
Course on cult and a course on drugs.
Yeah, drugs.
Finally we will have a course on magic.
On magic.
Of course on magic.
Let's say courses.
You understand what I mean is that we're going to the sources and I'm going to give you the
dirtiest stuff.
I'm going to give you the stuff that people say, oh, okay, it's time to switch off of
YouTube and to switch on to Patreon.
Right?
Because I don't want to get stuck with, you know, I haven't put on something that's used
as words that algorithms don't like to refer to.
Yeah, I think one of them is un, what do you call that?
What are we chewing?
Un, unregulated, unincorporated, somehow, you know, whatever, detached from the teat.
Yeah, that's what they call it when you're sucking that teat.
When you're taking in that milky little goats.
Yeah, that's what we're here to punish, right?
You remember that when you're chasing those saders and you're beating them, you got your
rub done and you're, you're putting your applications via the rub done into the part of the human
body that's capable of absorbing the drugs that are on those, um, that route, rub done
that sacred, um, wand.
You thought wands were all, isn't it funny?
Everybody was watching Disney again and everybody thought the wands were these, you know, Harry
Potter, which is just obscene, man.
It's just obscene.
Harry Potter's wand, uh, was this, is this whole thing?
I think I understood.
I think I found this in junior high.
I think I found this in junior high.
She was the one of the best teachers I ever had, you know, definitely.
I'll leave it at that, um, because this is YouTube and let's keep it.
Let's keep it.
You know, um, I'm always going to do that, people, by the way.
I'm always going to do that.
Monetized.
We're not monetized, right?
Yeah.
Good.
Okay.
Um, you got the raw stuff.
It's going to be magic and cult.
And for the magic and cult and drugs, um, I, I may want to combine those into one grand
course on the mystery, yeah, the mystery.
I heard him.
I just heard some Melvin say, yeah, and to me, the mystery is, uh, yeah, in the plural
Melvin.
Yeah.
The performance, the activation of the throne of Satan.
Yeah.
Fantastic.
Fantastic.
Love it.
Love it.
Good stuff.
Good stuff.
Um, let's go to the sources and see what we've got.
Now this is the kind of thing that I'm going to pull out in the classes and I want people
to be able to follow, even if you don't have any interest in the Greek, I want you just
to follow it.
Hit me with the passage.
Remember people.
This is the famous passage, Mark 14, 51 from the New Testament, Kai Neoniskos, Teess.
And this Teess here, it never gets translated.
It never gets translated.
Right.
It's an indefinite.
So it's some something or someone.
And what is the sum of it?
It's some Neoniskos, that second word.
That is not only a diminutive on the end of it.
It's root is boy.
So this is young boy, young boy.
There's a some young guy, Jesus is with some young guy.
And what is that?
What is some young guy?
What is what is what is the fourth word in soon a colute?
He's assigned to him as a, as a what?
Well like a slave or a soldier.
And this guy's not, he doesn't have any armor on.
So wait a minute.
You mean Jesus Christ wasn't just not doing carpentry?
No, he was important enough to have assigned underage naked slaves.
Did Jesus have money?
It's funny.
He always appears poor.
I think your picture is wrong because here he's got enough power that he's assigned his
own naked boy slave and there's, there's, you know, we can go into length about what
that privilege is when you've got to have that, you know, when you've got that money.
Like Jesus isn't doing this in the palace, right?
He's not watching, he's not watching his wife's daughter, his stepdaughter.
He's not watching her dance naked in a dark back alley somewhere, right?
He's not watching that.
He's in the palace and all the big wigs are there.
This is entertainment, brah.
And she comes out and dances so good.
He says, I'll give you anything.
No, this is Jesus and he's back in the park, right?
With people, three of his boys watching, guarding at a distance.
Yes.
Everyone's like, we know this, sir.
Okay.
Keep going.
Don't call me, sir.
Not even, no, back to the, no, no, no, get that off there.
Ah, Christy Anglo.
Okay.
Ah, look.
Altoy pedibe, menos, having wrapped up a scene donor, which we all know what that is.
It's a bandage.
And then those next two words, epigumno, on his private parts.
Yeah.
And chai cratus in alto and they arrested him.
So there was some young guy assigned to Jesus and some young guy had his genitals wrapped
in a medicated bandage.
Yes.
And they arrested him.
This is when they're arresting Jesus, right?
And what happens next one?
Oh, look what happens here, people.
Look, look what happens.
A young man.
Look at the transformation of the new international tonight, we're going to beat to death.
The new international version, which is probably as useful as, oh, I don't know, um, as a model
T.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Probably about that useful and practical now.
Right?
Here for a museum.
That's okay.
But yeah, I'm not taking one all night in, right?
Um, that's what this thing is doing is distorting a young man.
No, it's not a young man.
Yeah.
Yeah.
A young man.
Oh, how about where'd you get the man out of that?
There's nothing in nanniescos.
That's man.
Naya means fresh, fresh, a little, freshy nanniescos.
It's a diminutive, a little, freshy.
And so a young man, he sounds more distinguished.
They've distinguished him up, wearing nothing.
Listen, wearing nothing incidentally, but a linen garment, a linen garment.
Seriously?
Okay.
He was following Jesus when they seized him, right?
Like just following.
What is this?
Get out.
Just wandering aimlessly.
Right?
Who is this weirdo?
Go to the next one.
Oh my God.
Look at it.
Look at here.
Look at it.
Sunanakalutheu.
Follow along with her closely and look at the first examples they give Greek students.
They give armies, generals, slaves.
Yeah.
Attend.
What do slaves do?
They attend on you.
Now why would I need a young naked boy to attend on me and feel that I had to hide it
in a public park at 4 a.m.?
Because I'm not running with Herod when I'm doing it, right?
He can do that kind of stuff.
You can't, bro.
And the rich always do.
That's not a conspiracy.
I'm telling you historically.
That's a fact.
I'm sorry, people.
Goes right back to it over and over and over again.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Interesting.
Let's go hit the next one.
Look at this.
I was just going to show you the Sindon.
We've all seen this here.
Let's go through these quick cheery because this is the Sindon, the bandage.
This is weight.
This is Boussinos, right?
Look at the first line.
Boussinos Sindon, right?
Oh, nice.
Right?
Boussinos Sindon.
Oh, no.
No.
What is it?
The linen bandage is used for mommies and then wounds, right?
There's not much else you're going to wrap with this stuff.
But everybody look at number two and remember that it is por furos, right?
Or por fura in the Herculaneum Library.
And when we bring that up, we're going to see what is the purple.
What is the purple?
Remember they're applying this via linen wraps, via linen wraps.
You mean they're putting the burning purple on a linen wrap and then wrapping up a young
kid's private parts with it?
Yes.
What are you going to do at that point?
If you're Jesus, somehow the goop is going to get on your face, right?
Why is that?
For the galene, for the galene, you're going to suck the black death right through that
linen.
Yeah.
It's impregnated in the wrap.
Okay.
Are you seeing it?
Are you seeing what Jesus is doing?
Are you seeing?
That's one of the things that I like that Danny said was he said, oh my God, all of a sudden
this stuff is making sense.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I'm sorry to inform you that your God is a child killer and his son is a pedophile.
Yeah.
Pedorast is the technical term in antiquity for those who have the students just like
Hercules and his pedorastic kandauron, his centaur, yeah.
Are you there?
Do you see where you are?
This is your life.
This is your life and you serve a pedorast.
If you're into that kind of thing and maybe throw in some genocide, yeah, that's usually
what happens, but that stuff has to be purged.
That stuff has to be purged and that's coming from the one that you don't.
See, except in the reflection, yeah, you know who she is.
You know who she is.
All right, let's go to the next next text.
Next text.
Who's saying that?
It's the sacred name.
Do you not know the sacred name?
What is this?
What is this purple?
Just look down at number two.
This is that has to do with the clause.
I want you to see that all the way under Roman numeral number two, number four, they
finally give you the concrete form of it, right?
They tell you purple color.
This is the purple.
This is the purple.
It's not like they go to school and learn about the colors, right?
Everybody knows what the purple is and it has symbolic associations to the extreme, right?
To the extreme.
It is royal.
It is royal.
It is divine.
Yeah.
It is that death and if you don't have that galane, eh, if you're not sucking that black
death right out of that linen, your mouth isn't full of the burning purple, yeah, you're
not in.
Right?
That's how you disrupt the signal.
Yeah.
It's how you breach through that dark star.
Yeah.
Fantastic.
Oh, God.
It's delicious.
Isn't it?
Let's go.
The purple was there and then I wanted you to see the mordant too, but that's okay.
It's a part of the preparation.
Finally, baffae.
Right?
Baffae.
Dipping.
What is the dipping?
The baptism is a dying and that dying is a drug action.
And a lot of you will say, well, that's obvious, isn't it?
Right?
Yeah.
Not necessarily.
Right?
Not drugs in the way that you think of them.
Yeah.
The dying of the hair was talked about, talked about as the invention of Medea, whose brain
must have been huge.
She must have had connections.
She must have.
Okay.
Her brain wasn't huge, but her calculating power must have been off the charts because
she apparently invented it.
We have ancient sources that tell us she invented hair dyes, which is cool if you think about
it.
They say her native color was blonde, but she dye her hair all the time.
Yeah.
You know, there's a fashion and antiquity of having a purple stripe, having a purple
stripe, you know, what you honor, you know, what you honor to the, you offer to the dead,
you give them the honor of your purple stripe.
Isn't that a gorgeous, isn't that a gorgeous concept?
Imagine the women that we're doing this.
Imagine them.
You can.
Yeah.
Oh, purple stripe.
Yeah.
We're there.
People were, um, this, we're right up that alleyway.
This is gorgeous.
I love this.
Okay.
Um, thank you for the great pictures, by the way, Chewy.
Chewy didn't go with me this time.
Next time Chewy will go with me.
Um, definitely.
I need my own Chewy.
You know what I mean?
And so leaving behind the bandage, the kid ran away naked.
Good.
Now, all I want to point out, because you guys have seen this 1000 times, all I want
to point out is, look, all we're doing is going to the Greek.
That's all we're doing.
We're just going back to the Greek.
And the only way for us to really get down to the dirt is to read a whole bunch is to
read a whole bunch.
That's, that's the only way it's the only way.
Kid fled naked.
Let's go to the next one.
We're going to fly through these because I've already taken people's time.
Um, here's the newer NIV.
Let's, let's kick it up.
Let's meet this thing up.
He fled naked.
No, that's not what it said.
No, no, no, no.
Said first, the bandage fell off his, you know, who, yeah, the belongs.
Yeah, because why?
Because why?
Because he and Jesus, who by the way, by this time, Jesus is groggy and paranoid.
He's falling over, says Mark and paranoid, scared.
Yeah, he's the guy's messed up.
He's jacked, right?
So he's got to take from that boy.
Why do you think he's sitting there?
It doesn't, isn't it a gorgeous intimate picture of Jesus that when Jesus Christ is
arrested in public park with a naked boy that he has a difficulty taking the cup through
that bandage.
He has a difficulty doing that.
He's like, oh, father, oh, dad, remember dad's a child's sacrificing.
So it doesn't matter.
Right.
Jesus got no sympathy on that end.
So it's like, oh, oh, and by the way, for those of you who think, and I get this every
once in a while, this image of your piety, your Christian piety, we must spank the bottom
of Christian piety.
That's what you get.
And go hang with your sisters.
When you, because piety, be a Thomas, never mind.
When you give in to the fairy tale, you give, you end up giving over everything.
And Jesus didn't have a good relationship with his father.
His father killed him.
His father killed him.
Your model of what a father is is not that.
Did you know, right?
The Olympians are looking around like, whoo, right?
Did you know there's a good father out there and a good father would not put his child to
death under any circumstances?
I don't care what you can come up with.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Fantastic.
So this run to the, run to the real Zeus here and see what it is.
By the way, Zeus is thousands of years older than Yahoo.
So you can see that Yahoo is a corruption.
It's a corruption, right?
Of the generation of heaven and earth.
He didn't, right, in the beginning was, right, wood on us and guy, go, they all know this
next one.
Look at this.
Get up.
He says, Jesus is like, um, this is when he gets discovered, right?
And I want you to see a gait is the, a good, oh my God, let's get going.
Get up.
Right.
His guys are half passed out on the ground.
Right.
See, um, they can't even stay awake.
He's having a problem.
He has to wake him up.
He, he spends an hour with the kid and then he goes back, um, or a watch, which can be
a, uh, two hours, two and a half hours.
Yeah.
So depending on who was doing it at what time, a freaking century.
Um, so it could be as long as two and a half hours.
So he's there, um, with the kid for a considerable amount of time, comes back in his guards.
You know, they're asleep again.
Right.
I can't keep these kids awake.
Right.
Give him the stimulant.
Right.
Somebody give these kids the stimulant.
Um, that's what the lace stays is up to.
Right.
So, okay.
So there we are.
Kid runs away.
Good.
Let's go to the next one.
Let's go to the next one.
Um, he, I just wanted to show you, this is, he's, dude, he's in a rush.
He says, look, betrayer is going to come over and hit it.
He's got a name for him already.
The betrayer.
Jesus is good.
Like Trump, he makes up names.
Yeah.
Isn't that funny?
Oh, that's funny.
Um, at this time, Jesus answered and he said, Oh God, I'm so ex homologic with you.
Right.
Now look at that second word on the, I mean that first word on the second line ex homologic
right ex homologic I'm being literally intensively on the same reckoning or reasoning as you.
Now most of your translations will be like, Oh, father, I praise you.
No, he doesn't say that.
He didn't say that at all.
He says we're on the same reason wave.
You and me were on the same reason, father, father, Lord.
This isn't just this word, curious goes back to, this is old Mycenaean stuff, right?
The core law and the courier, all that irracular stuff.
This Lord goes back to that.
So this is important.
I mean, this is 1000 years before Jesus, this thing is coming out, right?
And he says, what is he the Lord of?
He's the Lord of Uranus and Gaia.
Wait a minute.
What do you mean?
There's a theogony in this thing.
Yes, there is.
This is the family.
Right.
Welcome.
Welcome.
Here it is.
It's from the Bible.
Nobody reads the Bible anymore.
Yeah.
And he's hidden, right?
You hit this stuff, which is what, you know, Christians, if you don't realize all stuff
is hidden, think about it for a minute.
There's no cult religion that starts out with drugs and baby blood and brains.
Remember the brains?
That was interesting that has, you know, any sort of hope of becoming modern, like what
you've got today, Christians, they don't have a hope of becoming modern unless they
un-inject the system.
They take out the antidote so the stuff can't mix and we get, boom, get explosion, right?
That's what's going on here.
They're trying, the translations are trying to hold that down.
Okay.
Go back to the, go back to the, because that's what, you don't have that modern Christianity,
right?
It doesn't make any sense to you.
If you have not had the truth hidden from you in code, right, if you haven't been through
that experience, it's because you don't crack it, right?
Crack it and then you'll know.
This is what it says.
It says, you hid these things from the smarty pants and you what?
You showed it out on napeoise.
You showed it to the napeoise.
Who are the napeoise?
Idiots, they're children.
They're idiot children.
Do you know what an idiot child is?
It's a cool concept.
Think about it for a minute.
Everybody thinks, no, we have child or Anglo-Saxon doesn't permit us to take that extra step
and to say, well, you got different kinds of children, right?
What kinds of children?
You know what the Greek language allows you to do?
It allows you to classify.
Aristotle uses it that way, right?
All the maestros of ancient Greek, Sappho, for example, that's exactly how she uses it.
She categorizes.
What kind of things can you have in the world?
You can have something called an idiot child.
You can't blame an idiot child.
Idiot children, just they're idiot children.
You know what I mean?
It's not every child that's an idiot.
Yeah, yeah, okay.
So you kept this from the wise and you gave it to idiots.
Keep going.
If you're not an idiot, you don't know what I'm talking about.
Just never mind.
Here we go.
At that time, Jesus said, I praise you, Father, Lord of heaven and earth, because you have
hidden these things from the wise and learned and revealed them to who to little children.
No, it's not what it says.
Says Napiois, right?
Not Pidois, right?
Oh, my God, nothing with with the kid there is just a bad translation for what they're
trying to do is they're trying to keep it.
They're trying to keep it within the fairy tale.
Right?
Okay.
Muse, show us, show us what they did.
Keep it.
Show us a little more.
Go.
Hit the next one.
Oh, yeah.
Here's your Napiois.
Just in case you don't believe me.
Right?
Hmm.
Silly.
Silly is a nice way of saying it.
It's a Victorian way of saying it.
Silly.
You have any idiot children that you've been around?
Yeah.
I've known some in my time, right?
I understand the categorization, right?
It's very scientific.
Very scientific.
Mommy, am I an idiot child?
You know, is that where we go?
Go.
Next one.
Love it.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
Look, you know, he's standing there talking with him, right?
Jesus is with his boys who have fallen asleep because they've been hitting the opium too
much, right?
And behold, Judas, one of the 12, comes, he approaches.
And with him is this big, big crowd with their swords and with their clubs.
They came from the Archpriests and the Elders, okay?
This next one, yeah, we can skip the English.
I don't think the English is that good.
No, I think I already skipped it.
Go there.
Oh, up one.
Yep, yep, yep.
That's OK.
Keep going.
And immediately, yeah, what happened?
He came up to Jesus and he said, Kyrie, Kyrie.
Nice.
A rabbi.
Yeah.
Hi there, rabbi.
And he catafiles in him.
He tongued him.
Right?
Now, I'm telling you, that's the word for kiss, but there are different types of kiss.
And you can categorize them.
There's the kiss that is, you meeting somebody for the first time if you are in Italy, yes,
or saying your friend home for lunch, you know, give him a peck on the cheek.
There's that kind of kiss.
And then there's this kind of kiss, and this is the amorous kiss.
This is the amorous kiss.
This is the intensified kiss.
You know what I'm talking about.
You don't kiss your mother like you do your girlfriend or your boyfriend.
It's a different kind of kiss.
Well, Jesus gives him the wet one.
Right?
He gives him the big one.
He tongs Judas.
Now watch this.
Watch his response.
Notice the Greek, what we're doing with, right?
I'm trying to introduce us to tonight is that refining, refining in order to get you
to see, look, you can make bigger words than you are actually in your brain.
Your brain can do that.
It can come up with bigger concepts.
Love it.
Do the next one.
Mmm.
Going once.
Yeah.
And he kissed him.
Look.
They cleaned it up.
Listen.
That's feet.
Oh, brothers.
That's not.
Very dirty, deceitful men of the cloth.
Oh, by the way, take it down for a second.
I got to talk about some of my background that I didn't get to talk about before, which
I thought was very nice.
I thought it was very nice.
Yeah.
Um, some of it striking and scary, which is punctuated in the video by lightning and
thunder, right?
You can hear the thunder in the background.
So when we talk about, which I thought was great effect, um, when we talk about the things
that we talk about with your, you know, we're getting there.
Let's do it.
Bring me back the source.
Yeah.
Go give me that one.
Um, here it is.
Yeah.
It can also mean to caress.
It's basically to give intimate love, to give that intense, right?
That kata is an intensifier.
Now you'll know, because in the future when we put a kata with something, you'll know,
oh, this thing augments it.
This thing causes it to enter into the most of the most, right?
If this is a comparative, right?
This is the one that's more than the other one.
Right?
Love it.
Look at the bottom.
This is the amorous kiss.
We only have two more.
Right?
We're almost done.
And Jesus did what he said to him.
Now watch.
You're never going to get this unless you go to the Greek.
So Judas comes up and gives Jesus a giant mouth kiss.
Right?
Jesus is there with his days to boys and the naked kid.
Right?
You gotta imagine.
You gotta set it up, right?
He's already been stumbling around, unsure on his feet.
He doesn't want to do what he's going to do to get from that kid, what he was trying
to get.
And then all of a sudden he says, oh my, you know, here they, here comes betrayer.
Get up.
Let's go.
He says, let's go.
Let's get out of here.
All right?
But it's too late.
We're in the middle of talking to him.
Jesus is already there on top of him.
French kissing him.
Yeah.
And then how do we know that it's French kissing?
What's the next, that same verse?
Boom.
Look at the one, two, three, four, five, six word in.
Hit Tyra.
Right?
What does Jesus say to him?
Jesus says to him, do what you gotta do.
Love her.
Do what you gotta do.
Love her.
You mean my universe of salvation and Christianity is based on that dude?
Yes.
Yes it is.
Yeah.
So if you got no problem with pedorasty, then worship away because, and there may be some
people out there, you know, it's like you can't create a genocide without weapons, without
some kind of plan, without some kind of payments, right?
You can't, you need that as backing.
If you cut that off, you can't have it anymore, right?
If you're a genocide, go away, it has to be supported, there have to be resources poured
into it, right?
That's the way it is.
If you want to shovel the fires of Yahoo, that's the way you gotta do it.
Remember the divinities, that father that is that good father that doesn't kill his
kids.
Are you ready?
This is from the Goya, the priestess on the Vatican.
All of those forms have fled into the animals.
Okay, you just sit, no, no, you know, sit on the throne.
Those of you who are sitting on the throne, sit on it again a couple of times, you know,
get the feeling back in your soul, you know.
Get those brain connections connecting, you know, and look at the throne of Satan.
Yeah, good, hit the last, hit the last one.
Look people, Jesus replied, do you do what you came for, friend, seriously, seriously.
Does that even make sense?
Right?
Do you see, you thought the muted tones in Jesus' skin, you thought that was, you know,
because he was born without hormones or something, right?
Something's going on.
This is, we're not going either male or female on this one, we're just going blah, right?
That's the fairy tale Jesus that you've got, right?
He doesn't say, look, that frigging betrayer is coming, let's get out of here and then
get French kiss and then say something to him, friend, are you kidding?
Are you kidding?
No, no, it is an attempt to obscure the original and that's what we at the museum and at the
place that we'll be collecting ourselves at the Omen, you, that is where we have to have
those details.
I'm not going to be satisfied.
You know, I saw somebody that Neil was interviewing a long time ago say, oh, if even 65% of what
I say is right, I'm happy, seriously?
That's the major of accuracy, well, get out of the way because we're going to sink your
ship.
Yeah, we're, you know, that's, we're serious here.
We carry the purple.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Wow.
Why?
Because it was hidden?
No.
Because we were the wise and we figured it out.
That's what God doesn't want you doing.
That's what Yahoo doesn't want you doing.
He doesn't want your eyes opened.
Will it kill you now?
You'll have new life.
You'll be alive for the first time and he doesn't want it.
Why?
Because he's Yahoo, bro.
I don't know.
How long do you think I've been ruling this place?
Yeah, he's Yahoo.
Give him his child sacrifice.
You have a choice.
You have a choice.
It's an incredible thing to watch.
Incredible.
But, you know, those are the, those are the happenings and the waves and time and from
that you can chart a course.
You can know how to ride those waves.
Yeah.
Because you can see where it's going.
That's what the oracular science is all about.
How do I know the future?
Yeah.
How do I know the future?
How does she, how does she know the future?
Yeah.
Love it.
So somebody get my goat, please.
Let's just say hello.
So bring Penelope up.
So as we end tonight at the sacred moment of the Satanic congregation, as we end this
point, I want us to focus, as you're sitting there, please focus on the symbol of the cross.
Look at that cross.
Look at that cross and see exactly what that cross means.
See it for what it is.
See it for the shame because you're going to wear that thing.
You're going to wear that thing in the eye on.
And just so you know, the cross goes down just like the swastika.
Thank you for coming tonight.
Hail Satan.
Let's go down the list with all the ingredients, original sources, psychedelic potions, double
trouble, ridiculous, Venus, the producer, hung on the temple up high, snake witch queen
of the dragons, throwing weed in the graveyard, with kisses of poison for you.
Just come and see it tonight, make you with the dragon venom of the darkest time.
