Rwy'n cael ei ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud.
Rwy'n cael ei ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud.
Welcome back. Welcome back. I hope everybody is doing well. Thank you for coming to the congregation of Satanists. Tonight we'll be looking at a very, very dirty Bible text, but it's an avenue for us to be able to jump in our spaceship and move back through time to that period when they were having the orgy.
Yeah. So I want to be able to find this place and to take you there and show you. And we're going to do that. But in order to get there, I need you, Hail Satan, I need you to be able with me to focus on why this is even important.
So, and I'm going to do that with a short video. I'm going to show you a video and I'm going to have us. I'll make a couple of comments on it, but I'm doing so to set up the fact that you don't.
You never stray from principle one, which is faith. No reason. Number one reason first reason first. So we're going to look at these tags, but I want to show you something. This is going to be this is a clip of a gentleman who is critiquing something that has just happened recently.
And that is the discussion of Jesus on the international stage of Jesus as trans.
I think Jesus transgenders himself on a number of occasions. And I think if you look at the foot washing from John's gospel, foot washing elsewhere in both old and New Testament that it's consistently done by by women.
And yet Jesus takes that on. People often cast that as being the servant's role. It was the woman's role. And Jesus does it and becomes the woman at that point.
We got to talk about a story that you only really seem to get in relation to Christianity because the World War Revolutionaries are not brave enough to do this to other people's religions like Islam, right?
And we'll talk about that a little bit later. But they tend to do this to Christianity in the wake of tragedy. What do you want?
What a job that I don't hate.
In which they somehow, someway connect back to Christianity. They try to blame Christians for what happened in Colorado.
We had the lunatic go and shoot up a gay bar, killing five or six people, injuring tens or 20 other people as well.
But another reason, the view found a reason to invoke Jesus and Christians into conversation around his mass shooting.
And it's like, study the whole system when it starts to claim that Jesus would have been the leader of a pride parade. Take a look.
For who they were and someone came to that place.
And what is the second part of the thing that they hide behind religions? Because I've said this on this show once before. Jesus would be the grand marshal at the pride parade.
I don't mean about the white women at that.
I mean, in every argument we have, we're future white women at the religion.
If you're so afraid, why are you going over there?
Yeah, if they scare you so much, leave them alone.
When stuff scares me, I'm leaving them alone.
If I don't want to be bothered, I don't go there. See, that's the problem.
I don't know what the Colorado mass shooting has to do with Christianity and how we don't know it yet at all.
They love an opportunity to try to attack Christianity because they hate Christianity and morality.
For example, watch this full blown meltdown from Cenk Euger on the young Turks in which again he takes his opportunity to express his hate for Christians.
Yes, sure. They have massive blame. The Republican Party is 100% guilty.
They have passed over 600 laws against the LGBTQ community just since 2018. 100% guilty.
If you're a Republican, you drove this hatred. You drove it. It's your fault, okay?
But my point overall is, guys, it isn't just the last couple of years when they drove that hatred.
My whole life, my whole life, right wing religious leaders have said, hate gay people, hate them, hate them, hate them.
Oh, I'm not saying hate the sinner, but the sin. They're sinning. It is not a goddamn sin.
So, what do we see there? We see a lot of people using something to make a lot of different arguments.
And you have to realize that unless you can be there, unless you can see what's going on, you can't really make any statements that individual goes on to talk about his critiquing the situation, commenting,
goes on to talk at length about why it isn't possibly correct.
And in doing so, he talks about the scholars who talk about trans Jesus now, and one of them came up with a dissertation on paintings later, much later.
I mean, it's not even using contemporary evidence. So, it's poor.
And I've noticed that you, who have interest in these topics, I've noticed that you are progressing down this path that we're going to see in the text.
And in order to do that, you have to be able to access the genuine.
If you're going to make a decision about what is going on now in our society, you have to understand the past.
And the only way to do that is through these sources. I've watched you guys.
I love your comments, by the way. I'm loving the shirt thing and I'm loving, I love the guy kudos to the guy or gal or hermaphrodite who stood up last time and said,
Hey, when we initiated brilliant. Nice.
For your sakes, you will hear a speaker.
And I told, I told Neil this, you're getting molested.
Neil, you're getting molested by Harvard. Harvard is molesting you, Neil.
Right. And they are. And let me explain how it is.
If you hear someone there, there was a prof in front of the name or a PhD, which they've got their PhD and they're from a big university, you assume what they're saying is accurate.
I told him, Neil, you're being molested by a group of religious historians, Neil.
Religious historians don't work with the texts in the original. You got to go to somebody who's classically trained.
Right. You got to go to some hard case. Who knows how to read these texts. And that's the only thing that I can bring to you.
I can bring you the evidence and hold it in front of your face so that you can see it. Okay, let's let's proceed.
Thank you everybody for everybody for joining. And I appreciate your time. I do.
Hail Satan. If this time, if we can have people chime in on command, I'll ask you any questions, then we can proceed.
This is going to be short. I don't want to hold us here for a while. I just want to splash it in your face because that's the, that's the time that we've got, right?
And I appreciate the fact that you're here when you're here. Let's look at Ezekiel. Let's get right in, jump right into the evidence.
Ezekiel, please. If you'll bring up the text for the evening.
Nope.
Excuse us for not being Johnny on the spot. I'm going to bring up your text and I'm going to show you the great and I just want to read through with you and show you some words.
And as I'm doing so, I'm going to bring some images to your brain and those images correlate with the text itself.
So what do I have up here? I've got that dirty, dirty profit Ezekiel and you'll notice right away it's Greek.
And the first thing that you will do is you will stand up because you have been listening to the people who don't have the training.
You will stand up and you will say this should be in Hebrew because your post 10th century when that Hebrew back translation came into existence and dropped, dropped Christos from the text from the Septuagint.
You're going to love this. There's dirty, dirty stuff in here. Oh, we've got to, we've got to explore this together.
Okay. Let's just proceed, shall we? Where the ships come to halt, you know, we can all step outside and see what it is.
And tonight we're in a dirty, dirty place, Samaria and Jerusalem. And these are times when things are going on. Let's see what's going on.
Yeah. And I want you to hear some of the Greek, right? I want you to hear some of it.
Cae agin ato logos curiw pros melegon. Yeah, this logos comes to me, this logos of the curious. Yeah, our Lord's logos comes to me and saying, what's it saying?
Son of man. You'll see this is translated terribly, terribly through the Masoretic tradition. It doesn't use the right word, right? Didn't use Adam, right? It's son of man.
Interesting title. And they understood this in the first century. That's why you know who is going around, call himself. Good.
Yeah. What do you say? Son of man. There were two women. Long story short. You know, duo gunaikis. These two, you know, females. Yeah. And they were the daughters of one mother.
And ex a pornau son. Ex a pornau son. What were they doing? They were ex pornating. If I can have you bring up porneia, that would be fantastic. What is porneia?
Yep. Look at the deaf in here. Here for porneia. And I just want you to notice this is Alice, by the way, everybody remembers Alice. Thank you for coming Alice.
I just want you to notice that in the Victorian LSJ, the Liddell Scott from Alice's father, that we get prostitution and look at Roman numeral number two here, idolatry.
That's the first time I want you to associate sex and religion. And that is orgy. You see where we are? We're right there at the Nexus. Let's keep going. Let's keep going. So what are these two girls doing? They're ex pornating in Egypt.
They're ex pornating in Egypt. Egypt. Oh. Okay. Well, what's going on? Let's keep reading. More text. More text. Keep it. Look at number here. For those of you who are following the Greek verse three.
She did it in her naotase in her youth. In her youth. She went to Egypt and she ex-pornated in her youth. And what is this ex-pornation?
Eche. There. Eche. There. Epeson hoi mastoi. If you've ever had a mastectomy or heard of somebody who has mastectomy, you know what those mastoi are. Those are your breasts. Her breasts. Epeson. They hadn't fallen yet. They hadn't developed yet.
Okay. Don't worry. The text reinforces this. We're talking about a young girl. We're talking about a young girl. Okay. Verse four. And the names of these girls was Oula and the older one, right? Oula. Isn't that a nice name? The Masoretic text again messes up here.
Oula and Ouliba. These are beautiful. These are beautiful. These gorgeous names. Why? Because they hold Greek roots. Wrap your head around that one. They hold Greek roots. Yeah. Okay. We're getting there. You feel foreign. Feels foreign doesn't it? Step out. Don't worry. We're coming.
So it's two sisters. Yeah. And Kai egg genonto. This is a really weird phrase. This next expression really means I had her to wife or I had her in the capacity of wife. Yeah, it's really weird. It's like they belong to me. Yeah, it's a, it's a, it's a, it's almost a marking. Yeah.
To bring a mark. I like it. Yeah. And so anyway, and the names of them are Samaria. He tells us. Yeah. Samaria is Oula and Jerusalem is Ouliba. Isn't that nice? Verse five. Kai. Except pornaisyn. And they pornated. Right. Who did? Hey, Oula. Oula pornated. What? Up and move.
Away from me. She's tornating, breaking that thing that she and I had, and she is doing it in Egypt. Oh, this is, remember, this is going to, it's going to start to get x-rayed pretty soon. Kai. Except pornaisyn. Hey, Oula. Up and move. Kai. Epitheto epithus erastas altais. What did she do? She said about her work.
Epithemi in Greek. When you engage in the biz. That's epithemi. She started engaging in the biz. Yeah, she did with her erastas. With her lover. Yeah. The one who's entering the passion. I'm not saying it. Ezekiel's saying it. Don't, don't, don't blame me. Oh, here we've got this.
That's the great wonderful, wonderful entry here. Lover. Yeah. Admirer. Yeah. Isn't that nice? It's gorgeous. Okay. All we go. And who are these lovers of hers? She's engaging herself upon the Assyrians. And Assyrians in the, at this time, they would refer to Calvines as Assyrians.
Assyrio. Right? It didn't really what you and I academically talk about with Assyrians. Don't think about a time or an empire. Shout out to Norman Yafi from Oriental Institute. Yeah. Wonderful. Love you, Norm. Anyway.
And verse six. Yeah. Those who were close to her anyway. And verse six. Yeah. What are these guys wearing? They're wearing hyacinth. They're wearing hyacinth. What is hyacinth? What is hyacinth? This is hyacinth. Oh, isn't that nice? Isn't that lovely? There's another hyacinth. This is hyacinth. Is everybody as everybody met hyacinth? Yeah. Boy lover. Apollo. Nice.
They're dressed in that purple. And what are they? They are a minus and Stratiegus. They're.
Oh, leaders, civic leaders, but it's more than just like an elected position.
This is people with power. These are aristocrats who are turning. Turning power. Yeah, oligarchs, if you will. You like that? Yeah. Okay. And what are they? They are neonicoi. Wait a minute. They're youth.
They're youth. What are these youths doing? Oh, they're epiclectoi. They're epiclectoi. They're chosen. They're aristocrats, bro. I'm telling you. These are the chosen aristocratic boys. Where do they get sent? They get sent to Oula. Yeah.
Apollo. Apollo me. Right? Her name. Destroyer, baby. That's what her name means. Whoo. Love it. Okay. And what are these prince boys do while they're there? Oh, well, the text goes on to say in verse six. In verse six, if you can get to say it, fantastic marking. Thank you very much.
Yeah. They're dressed in hyacent. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. They're young. And they're these princes who are hippies. They're on the horseback, right? And they're specifically either chariot or a horseback rider. Yeah. So train professional. These are, these are, you know, civilians would be proud to be around these people. And antiqui, it's a big thing. Their entire cultures that are horse driven. Yeah.
And the Scythians who are always, always, always caught with cannabis. They're the ones who are bringing us these toxins, these wonderful purple toxins. One of the things that you need to know. The purple die from antiquity is a huge trade. It's a huge trade. It splashes itself all over the languages of the Mediterranean. For example, Phoenician, the word Phoenician.
It just means purple. Right? These are traders. And they took this stuff all over the, all over the Mediterranean. All over. They set down colonies. They influenced the language and the development of the language. Oh, God, it's beautiful when you consider it for the delicate history. Right. And remember, Greek is a reservoir. This is several thousand years of language.
And when you get that much development, it's no wonder, like the Romans said, you know, okay, the Greeks got us with the language, right? It's, it's, you know, it is the master means of expression. You know, but we're good at engineering and our language reflects it. That's, that was the excuse, right? But they all knew. They all, they all went over to Elucis, right?
There's reason for that. Anyway, let's get back. Speaking of Elucis and this vampire girl that we're looking for, we're looking for a kid in there, right? Love it. Love it. Okay. Verse seven. Yeah. Verse seven.
And she gave her porneia, right? She bestowed it on them.
The cup that is in the apocalypse, held by the lady Babylon, that is full of her porneia.
Is giving her giving them the princes that cup. Yeah, she's bestowing her porneia upon them. Okay, thank, thank the time and the place. Thank goodness we have all the drugs that we can track. That's so that's we crack everything. Just track the drugs, follow reason.
Right? And watch it show you the history. Did you know they were doing this in antiquity? Yeah. Ritual. Right? Let's keep going. What else? What are you doing these rituals? We know we got the princes there. We got the purple there. We got the, ooh, this is getting exciting. Right? We're going to find out. We're going to find out in a minute.
The Egyptians. Oh, they're centaurs. They're called having the phallus. This, the shape of a donkey. And the size of a horse. And this is what brought Oula.
This young girl because the most threatening thing to Jehovah is a young girl underdeveloped entering entering a right involving a prince.
He doesn't want that. He doesn't want her giving her porneia. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, it's gorgeous. Let's keep going and see where where where she ends up. Yeah. Yeah, she didn't.
So she, she, she, they, at the end of verse seven, there's a bunch of me I knowing going on. They're all mean I knowing together. What does it mean? It means to stain.
It means to stain with dye. Hercules, Heracles has some dogs. Their lips are stained with purple. Yeah, their lips are stained with purple. Dogs and dragons.
They're the ones that stand at the portal of the underworld. Yeah. These are the same group using the same pharmacology using the same poisons, right toxins, venoms, right to raise the serpent on the pole.
Yeah, because these are serpent films we're working with right saturnian, saturnian magic, gorgeous stuff. Okay, so when when it says me I know me I know literally means to stain with the dye. Right.
Um, so these are staining themselves.
Yeah. Nice. Nice. Okay. And what else are they doing? Verse eight. Um, she, she didn't leave it off. You know, she didn't left that it leaves that off. I want to jump ahead.
Because we don't I don't want to spend too much time. I want to I want to get you to the act to the, you know, things develop and what happens in verse 10.
Yeah, they apple coluctode.
The princess apple coluctode.
They apocalypsed. They apocalypsed her ice cream.
What is that? If we can bring up ice cune, we'll just ask Alice Alice, because you tell us what an ice cune is.
There.
Yep. Yep. I just want you to notice. Look at ice cune and you see shame or dishonor.
That's what they apple coluctode. Apple coluctode means to uncover.
Uncover the uncovered her shame. What does that mean?
You can you can have the shame of women being their dishonoring.
Yeah, but look at number three, because we are in later when they say number in Roman rule number three at the bottom.
What does this later? We are there people. And what does it equal? It equals I doon.
And what is I doon? Come up to me because I want to.
I doon is the pudindum that which requires shame.
Yeah, the privates, the private parts, the princes uncovered her private parts.
And what else did they do? It says the echo. They poured out or squirted out on her.
What is going on? You can see we're at a classical classical orgy, right?
This is a religious operation, which Jehovah is mad about.
Right? You can't do this. You can't do this.
Samaria shame on you. Knock down those temples, throw down the cast out the dildos that are there.
Right? You can't do this. They're spreading it, the purple, right? It's a cult.
It's a cult, a mystery cult. Fantastic. Let's let's keep just a little bit longer.
How would you on time because I don't want to hold you guys. This is this is all good stuff and there's a lot here.
But, um, yeah, he saw them. Let's go down to verse 13. I just want you to see this as young initiates.
Look at verse 13. Yeah.
Caeddon hoti ne miantai. Yeah, I saw that they were died.
I saw that they were died. Hodos mi aton duol. Hodos mi aton duol.
Of two. One way. Walking the one way of the two. Isn't that beautiful? Yeah.
So that hodos, that way, when you see that in the first century and Jesus is talking about the way.
If you don't know those primary sources, you don't even know what the way is, right?
And an example that I always give you guys that I want to I want to finish on this tonight and then take some questions from you is that way that we talk about salvation.
Yeah, salvation, those words. So Theria, we don't have those words. Those are rich, rich, rich Greek words.
So if we're going to say to bring this back to the beginning, if we're going to say that.
Oh, as Georgia did the country, the Republic of as Georgia did when people rose up.
And chased homosexual men and women around and killed them.
As the world tide of this comes this world tide based upon based upon the very dogma generated by these texts, not the text.
It's not coming from the text. It's coming from the dogma that's generated by them.
Let's go back and see. Let's go back and see.
Somebody's made the assertion that Jesus is trans based on some paintings.
If we were to go back and actually look at the sexuality of Jesus, if we were to go back to the text.
We would see a world that'll crack, that'll crack your existence.
Yeah, we'll see. We'll catch Jesus in a park with a naked boy. We'll catch him there.
And what is he doing? Does he have the purple?
Yeah, Oula and Uliba. Long story short, they saw the way. They found the way.
Okay, so now let's get back in the ship, come back to modernity.
Does anybody, does anybody have any questions? Does anybody have any related to these texts?
Anything. You deserve a right to be able to ask for spending your time on a Wednesday night.
He'll say that you would come.
How about some questions here? Why don't you go ahead and...
More please. Thank you. No, thank you. I appreciate that.
But we have ice cream and goodies for everyone and whatever's in this.
Excellent.
What text were you using? Yeah, I was using the Septuagint Ezekiel 23.
Ezekiel chapter 23.
Can I just... Here, you want a little bit more? This is hilarious. I got to show you this.
Bring up for us, please, the translation. The King James.
This is the King James translation of the third verse of that passage.
This is the verse where it says she grew up there in Egypt where she was committing this act,
ex-pornating with these people, and it was before her breasts fell.
Yeah, so watch the King James translation. This is funny.
And they committed hordyms in Egypt. They committed hordyms in their youth there where their breasts pressed.
And there they bruised the teats of their virginity.
The teats of their virginity.
What? That's not even in the text. You can't even get a whiff of that. Who's bruising? What?
Okay, then you ask yourself, how can you have the Septuagint? The text we just looked at,
which is quoted by Paul and anybody else is quoting it in the New Testament.
They're quoting that text that we just read.
So how is it that we get bruised teats out of that?
Yeah, it's not. Yeah, it's just not there.
I thought hordyms was nice. Hordyms is a little bit almost angry. Angry. Incredible.
More questions.
Can we get to breaking the cup?
That's fantastic. This is Rob. Okay, breaking the cup.
Dr Street. Yes, breaking the cup. Agent Street.
That sounds sophisticated, doesn't it? By the way, welcome all the way from England.
Rob is working on tracking down the half girl, half viper. Beautiful image.
Junghazer. We have Jung tied up in the corner. By the way, I gagged him. I ball gagged him so he wouldn't be able to talk to you tonight.
But yeah, because that's what you do as a necromancer, right?
No, Jung in his red book talks about the one he didn't want published, talks about the half girl, half viper.
Who Herodotus talks about. It's when all the Greek women are getting an Eastern women are getting abducted.
Financians getting abducted because they can give you the purple.
Oula and Ouliba. Yeah, do you understand? Do you have ears to hear?
Okay, so let's drink some babies. Did somebody say anything about babies?
Yeah, Lamea. Yellow Psyche with Lamea. Nice. Nice. Yellow Psyche eats babies.
I mean, yeah. Yellow Psyche, don't respond to that.
Yeah, why are we eating babies again? That's what Lamea does. That's what Yellow Psyche is referring to.
Is the great, great goddess who comes to the infant and strangles them.
How do you strangle an infant? You suck its essence. Isn't that fantastic?
The words ffynx means strangler and that brings us perfectly to our final presentation of the night,
which is a French silent very short minute and a few seconds film.
And I will warn you that I am programming your brain and this image is your necessary mission.
Should you choose to accept it? Can you hold it?
It's disturbing me silent.
Nice door.
I wonder what's in that box.
And he's donkey.
Well, at least his head was, his head was very much like the first depiction of Jesus, right? Good stuff.
Yeah, if you just imagine that leave, you're living in antiquity, right?
The earliest images you hear about this savior, right? Up until this time it has been a female, but a savior.
And what does he look like? He looks like a dude with the head of an ass.
Yeah, fantastic. I found an ancient. I'll say one more thing. I found an ancient. I look real close into your eyes.
And I'll tell you I found an ancient text. Everybody knows about it already. It's been translated.
But it's by a priest. And this Hellenistic priest is doing stuff with these vellums and he's got a, he coded his name in the text.
And under his name he has the initiatory myth or song by which people are brought through the gateway.
And it's all about the ass. Yeah, and his burden.
And with that, we'll leave it. We'll leave it. Thank you for coming tonight. I hope this was helpful.
Please leave comments and let me know. Hey, you know, shorter, longer, more media, whatever you would like with these.
And thank you to our artist. I just want to introduce agent Ferrari, who Hail Satan is able to provide you with some of this art.
He's a real artist and it's a real pleasure. It's a real pleasure to work with him.
So some of the images that you see coming up will be his dedications. So Hail Satan on that, right?
Thank you, congregation. And I will see you Saturday, if you Friday night, rather, for Sabat, at which time we will progress.
We will progress to what's called the Black Harbor, the Black Harbor, and that is in our ancient antidotes text.
And we'll cut to the chase. I see your comments and I'm going to refine my approach based upon what people are interested in.
I like to have that interaction. So thank you everybody for coming and have a good evening.
.
