Come and get it
Why did you ever change your name?
Because you were like a wave
On the ocean
Wild and free you came
And you were like a storm
Coming out of mountains
Never to be tamed
All the way
Why did you ever change your name?
All the way
Why did you ever change your name?
Welcome back to the Lady Babylon Wednesday Night Bible Studies
Seventh and final season
Tonight we're going to take a look
At a mystery that you have not
Had revealed
Tonight we're going to look to peer
With the most blessed eyes
Into the most holy territory
We're going to see within that space
And you know you couldn't get it elsewhere
Because nobody reads the text anymore
Right fantastic we're going to see through tonight
We're going to see through the deception
We're going to see into the language
We're going to see all the fairy tale
Evaporate tonight on Lady Babylon
Tonight I want to just jump right in head first
What we need to do is get you the material
This is more like a scoop than anything else
But we need to get you the material
We need to show you tonight
I want you to thank to yourself associates
Tonight we're going to look at the associates of Jesus Christ
We're going to see Jesus Christ and his associates
This terribly terribly important relationship
That follows him all the way to his trial
If you can call it that
Before his execution
That relationship with his members
That's what's really an issue
It's what he's doing
It's what his members are doing
And his relationship to them
Are you ready to see some disciples?
Are you ready to see some of his associates?
Let's take you right there
I want to open up with just this
I want to set the space as we get out of the spaceship
We step into this time
Smell the air
Feel the Greek
What place are we going to?
Where does Jesus like to go?
Like to go
Where does Jesus like to go?
He likes to go to the paradise baby
Doesn't everybody like to go to paradise?
This place smells great
It's a vineyard
It's a cultivation
And we're going to go there
Why? Why?
This place that's always always
Teaming with life
Why does Jesus go there?
Let's go to the next one
Fantastic
You hear the blessed music stop
And then the cue, the villain music
There's this dude, Judas
He knows that place
He knows it
Keep going
Why does Jesus always go there?
By the way, Judas has said
He is a bold guy
He is a bold guy, Judas
Didn't take nothing
Look at what's going on here
Christ is what?
You see the Christ there at the top?
You see it? What's he doing?
He's enjoying walks in the darkness
Wait, what?
Yes, if he had a profile
It would say enjoys walks in the dark
I'm not kidding you people
He likes to be out there in this place
It's across the little river
You go out there and you're all by yourself
And it's shady
It's dark
You can do things out there
He spends his time
What's he do? He takes his kids out there
He takes his children out there
You didn't think they'd arrest him with a grown-up, did you?
No, well Jesus got arrested
He got arrested with a naked kid
Here it is
Oh, great
This is the place he likes to go
So I want everybody to get out of the spaceship
Tonight we're in the garden
We're in the garden, right?
Who cultivates this place?
Some of these boys are on the inside by the way, you know
They're working with the priests
Wait, what?
They're working with the temple priests
Did anybody bother to ask the question of why it is
That young, nymph girls are guarding the temple?
Administering the temple?
Does anybody wonder about that?
Let's put it seems out of place, doesn't it?
It's kind of strange, isn't it?
For girls to be doing what this misogynistic society
And this misogynistic God want them to do
Is that what you want squeezed out?
You want that little unreality squeezed out there
Like a pimple
Like a pimple
Let's go
Go back to the text
Hang a ride at that star system
Fantastic
Here it is in Christ
Hang it out in that place, right?
That's where he goes and he takes his kids
Next one
Oh, and what happens?
There's a place where he's crucified too
Speaking of localities
There's a place where he's crucified too
And we all know the name is Hebrew
Nope, we don't
Unless we're trying to appropriate, we don't
What does the actual Greek say?
Go to the next one
That Hebrew, right?
What is it?
Look at the three
Now, what I've done here, I'm sorry
I didn't mean to yell
I'm sorry, children
That's not right of me
I took a wrong approach
Look here, look
I got too excited
This is Al-Sonian
Syrian and Akkad
Wait, what?
Yeah, the three languages
You mean those three?
They're not speaking Hebrew?
No
They haven't been speaking Hebrew there for centuries
Mm-hmm
Mm-hmm
Do you know what's more popular?
Oh, the languages that are in the area that we would call
Well, part of it is Syria
But when they say Syria, they mean us, Syria
They're talking Chaldean
And why would you need these names in Chaldean?
Why would you need a bunch of Chaldean?
Hebrew is dead
Why would you need the Chaldean?
It carries the magic language
The titles are in Chaldean
Oh, my goodness, you say?
I thought, no, don't worry about it
It stretches all the way
Down to Babylon
It's okay that there was no Hebrew in the first century
It's okay that the temples are full
The synagogues are full of Greek
It's okay
It's okay, people
Right? Let's get down
Let's get down to the history
The real stuff
Okay, bring us that source
That next source, Chewie
Fantastic
So this is where he went with his students
So-called late at night
Right in the darkness
To be with his students
You know, it's either that or the fishing boats
Where the Peter's member when he's naked
Okay, and anyway
Somebody mentioned before
I'm bringing this first up
Because on the second line, this is for Deon
Deon, I shout out to Deon
Giving him, he asked about the spade on
Yeah, how much is it?
Look, what did Judas do?
He went and got the spade on
Right? And yeah, you could say cohort
Cohort, how many is in a cohort?
Well, a whole cohort is a couple of manifolds
Maniples, let's see
What's a manifold?
Oh, God, do you hear what's going on?
You're in the Roman world
You thought you were in the biblical world
You are not
You are in a backwater, crap province
In a world that looks so down upon this place
It tortures bad Romans
By making them the governor
Yeah, if you did something wrong to the emperor
If you had maybe, I didn't know she was his niece
Next thing you know, you're governing Judea
Oh, God, this place is uncivilized
Don't you understand?
You realize the Scythian language is still being used
The titles that we have in all of the magic, they're all Scythian
Oh, my God, aero poisons people
Follow the technology, it's gorgeous
Let's keep going, it's gorgeous
Let's go back to the text, pull it
Here, and any who to answer for Deon
I don't know, it's a couple
A couple hundred per manapole, right?
A couple hundred per manapole
And what do they say we've got here?
We've got, let's see, see, see
It's anything coiled, of course
Oh, there we go, two centuries is a manapole, right?
Two centuries, okay
So centuries, a hundred, a couple hundred
But here's the problem, Deon
It fluctuates throughout, right?
It gets standardized at whatever at a specific time
And then a couple hundred years later
It's got a totally different composition
So what did, how do we know how many of the SWAT members
Came down to the guard to be with Jesus?
It's hard to say, he just got the cohort
It could have been a representation, you know
Could have been like a section of them, you know
With their heavy weapons, look, look
Can also be a guild, right?
It can also be a guild, but it's a tactical unit, right?
Now we're talking Ptolemaic
Woo, love it
Okay, isn't it nice how the odor
The odor of those Egyptian Greeks
Love it
Okay, let's look at his associates
His individual associates
As we take Jesus into trial
Let's look at this
So people that are associated with him
And we got our first guy up here, Simon
You know what a thug he was
Thug bulldog, you know, he's cutting off ears
He's like, you want to, you want to hassle us?
Cut your ear off
What does he do?
He's there
This punk kid is there for the questioning
And when they take Jesus in
He stays at the door
He stays at the door
Next to the administrative assistant
Who is a girl
Who makes sure
Who goes in, who goes out
Yeah, interesting
It's gorgeous
Let's go, let's go
Back to the text
Oh, Jesus, carrying a cross
Sorry, Chewie, bring
You can bring back Jesus in a minute
And what happened?
What happened?
Go back to the one before that
I need to go back to the one that I was just at
Oh, did we lose our navigation system?
There it is
Okay, so he speaks, you know
Peter's there
And he responds to this girl
Because she says, wait a minute
Aren't you one of his people?
Right?
And what does he say?
Hey, don't look at me
Don't look at me, right?
And it says, here in the Greek
It says he's a little bit, you know
He's a little bit shook up
You can tell, right?
This is big stuff, man
We got Roman soldiers
All over the place, right?
This could go bad
And he says, oh, lady
Let me tell you what
Look at that last line
I am not a sun imporos
Of Jesus, right?
He uses his title, Christ
The one who has been Christed
Just like Medea was walking around with it
Yeah, he's, look
There he is
He says, I'm not a sun imporos
And you ask yourself, what is this?
What is that?
Tell us, please
Tell us, Peter, what you are not
Yeah, it's one who goes on board as a passenger
Okay, traveler
Traveler, look at the bottom
Trafficker, aha
Trafficker
What is the imporium?
It's a place where you traffic
You guys know that
And if you don't think it's connected
With the human trade
Look at the last line on section 3
Roman numeral number 3
There's trafficking and women
Trafficking and women
So what does Peter say?
Bring that back up, bring that back up
So what do you want to lose it?
Look, what is it?
He says, I'm not
I am not mixed up in the business
With this Christ, right?
Very, very specific denial
Very, very specific denial
Okay, let's go to the next text
Yeah, this is the Bible again
John again, yeah
So he's being questioned
And what do they really want to know?
They want to know about two things
They want to know peritone, mathetone
They want to know about his students
Tell us Jesus about your students
They just picked him up
Across the river in a shady dark place
At 4 a.m. with an angry kid, right?
And they're all standing around going
You know somebody asked, where's an angry kid?
Kid got away
There's, you know, he's running
Woo, little dude was fast
All oiled up
Right out of people's hands
What was Jesus doing?
Right, well look, right
This is no longer fun
This is no longer fun
We're looking at reality
He wants to know the guy who's questioning Jesus
The Archpriest
What does he want to know?
He's asking him
He's saying, hey, what about these students?
What about these students?
And what about your teaching?
What is your, what is your teaching?
What are you spreading?
And what's Jesus?
What's Jesus?
What are we going to, what kind of response
Are we going to have?
Now some of you will think
That you're dealing with the guy
In the paintings with the halo
And the hand
Even when he's casting out the, you know
Money changers
Even when he's doing that
He looks like he belongs to the concert somewhere
Right, he doesn't look like it's not intimidating
That man is not intimidating
Right, let's look at him here
This is not who you think it is
This is gangsta G
Gangsta G
And what is gangsta G doing?
He's responding, but he does so
With a bold, bold story
He has no lack of confidence
Right, says Jesus
Literally says Jesus, don't shake
What he's got to tell to this guy
What he's got to tell this guy
Look, you thought he was humble
Look, we're seeing, we're seeing
Let's see, next one
Let's see Chewie, what's the next one?
Boom
Okay, here we go
And Jesus said, look, I stood around
And I said everything openly
Right, I taught these people in synagogue
In the temple
Yeah, I didn't hide anything
I hid nothing
Now, watch, watch what nonus
Shows us of that, of those words
Go ahead, hit it
What did Jesus say?
Uden hupukufion laleon le storimuzhoy
Oh, you ready?
Are you going to feel this, this is big
This is big, are you ready?
I never spoke in that coded language
That the pirates use
Never spoke it
You won't catch me
didn't use your lingo. I don't have these kids for the sake of trafficking. The
ones that he just took him to the temple and they're like, ah, taking over the
place. Yeah, this is who we're talking about. We're talking about co-conspirators.
That's why those people are afraid to show up. One of them comes and people, I
don't know why everybody misses this kid. There's a kid who's in with the uncle I
think it was, of the priest. And this kid is in with him. I'm gonna show you.
Guess why he's in with him? Because it's about the fishing business. When you go
out on those trips. Do you know why naked Apostles like Peter end up on boats?
There's a market. There is imporon. Yeah, we have, we have a supply and a demand.
Guess where we're doing it? We're doing it where the lace stays do it. We'll take
you out on that boat. Yeah, take you out, brah. Take you out with the boys. Who would
you like to meet? Who would you like to meet? Now do you understand why there is
a crowd of people? And by the way, this is before sunrise still. There's a crowd of
people screaming, kill him, kill him. Do you want this other guy? No, kill him.
Yeah. Yeah, I'm not a lace. How many time are we gonna have to have lace
stays associated with Jesus and his boys? Now it's gonna get creepy. I'm gonna
show you the mystery that hasn't been revealed. Fantastic. Fantastic. Thank you
for being so patient. You mean I had to wait through seven seasons of this guy?
Oh my god. Where's that whip? This is one for me. This is one for me. It took you
seven seasons. I don't know if that hurts or not. Purgative, right? We get it
out. We get it out. All right, let's go back to the next text and see. Let's
see that. Oh my god. What does she say about Peter? Remember the girl that's
watching the door? She's like, no, no, no, this dude. This dude's one of them. Right?
Excuse me, sir. Right? He's like, oh, don't look at me. I'm not in this. I got no
business. Right? And now she says, now you're that, you know, aren't you that
diachtoros of the Christ? What is the diachtoros? It is a Christos, his
position in a diachtor, diachtoros. That is the somebody who, well, you could say
it's a minister. You could say it's an assistant. You say it's the person
through whom you run the operation. Right? Now you know who Peter is. Now you
know why we make fishers of men. And now you know why he had to be the rock with
the key. Yeah. You remember Anna and I since the fire of those, those bumpkins?
He was like, you didn't give us everything. Nope. Nope. They didn't. We know it. And
they ended up dead. Shh. Don't tell anyone. Christians love that story.
Yeah. That's the rock, baby. That punk was hip. He knew how to drive an
organization. He was the rock. And in addition to him, the sons of thunder,
right? We had the sons of thunder there. If you don't have sons of thunder,
you're, you're in bad trouble. And guess what? That is not any sort of
veramac or Hebrew expression. It is not. It is not. It is a Greek expression.
It's a Greek call expression within the mystery. So, you know, enjoy. Let's go.
Look, people, we're going to enjoy this. I'm going to start enjoying. Bring me up
the next one, because this is, we are almost done. We are almost done. What is
that? The octopus, right? That minister, that servant, right? Who administers
what's going on? Who is that the actor? Who is, who is Hermes? Who is that one
who facilitates the kingdom of God, if you're on in the Greek mind? Hermes.
Hermes, the one who is the thief. Ladies and gentlemen, I introduce you to Hermes,
the thief. Yeah. Okay. Don't get scared. Don't get scared. These, the, these,
the epithets, these, the expressions that we're using to bring this cult's
business. Okay. Let's go back. Next one. Boom. Yeah. And Jesus said, look, look,
brah. Remember, he's getting questioned and he's pissed. He's pissed and he's
speaking up. No fear. He says, look brah. My kingdom. It's not of this cosmos.
And when he says cosmos, he doesn't mean universe. They're talking organization.
The organization that you see around yourself is not mine. He says, if it were,
if it were, my Hupertai would kick your back sides.
Go to the next one. And would you say, what is the Hupertai? Oh, who are these people?
They're underling servants, attendants. Okay. People at arms. Okay. Okay. Good. Good. So Jesus
has associates. He has associates. And if this was his cosmos that we were messing with,
those associates would fight, but they don't. They don't go down. Sounds like more threatening to
me than it to you. It sounds like one of those body cameras. You know what I mean? Have you been,
ma'am? Have you been drinking? Yeah. Okay. Come on. You got to do some. Look what he says. Here's
what known us makes of those words. This is the impression from antiquity. This is not our
modern impression. It's known as his impression. And what does he say? He says the same thing.
He says, it's not our kingdom, baby. It's not our kingdom, but if it were, my Dresteres would
take up arms. What are Dresteres? What are Dresteres? What is a Drester? It's a laborer.
A working man. Oh, look, there's a feminine form. Drestera. A work woman. Okay. Fine. Oh,
oh, people don't look. Hold your eyes. It's coming. Look at didrasco. A runaway
a lacedace. A lacedace. Do you know what these workmen do? They're runaway children.
He's got his favorite. He's got his favorite. Let's go on the boat with Jesus. Are you ready?
You didn't let, you love Jesus. I know some of you love him. I know you love Jesus. You want to
go on his boat now? You perverts. Yeah. Cross everywhere you see the cross, where we see the
cross most. Gets my goat. Every time, leave the goat. Every time you see this image, I want you to
know. I want you to know that it is the product of a company that started on a boat with some kids
doing lacedic trafficking. Yeah. Yeah. Do you know how? Go ahead, take, goodbye, Penelope.
Do you know how that one of the kids gets in? It says, bring up the text. I think it's the next
one. Maybe it's the next one. Boom. One of the kids is there. That's there at the, just, yeah, there
we go. Oh, yeah. No. Who is it? Who is it we're talking about? Right? Look at the word here in
the middle. Lacede. Oh, God. Doesn't that, let's just freeze that for a minute. Doesn't that look
gorgeous? Lacede. Oh, yeah. You know what that is? That's the archaic form. That's the archaic form.
The form that you're seeing from the Bible is, you know, later, much later. This is kind of the
earlier form. And what is this Lacede doing? He's talking about Barabbas, right? He's talking about
Barabbas and what kind of dude that he is. He was one of the enforcers. He's one of what they call,
are you ready? This is a cult slash gang title. Cult slash gang title. Remember the bucket cult
is gang, right? And what are they, they have titles and what's the title here for this guy?
He's the deathbringer. When you need something done, you get the deathbringer, right? They were
going to put him to death, but they chose not to in order to put Jesus to death because he
presented something that was a higher target. Yeah. He outranked him, right? This is serious stuff,
dude. This is serious stuff. You heard him talking to him. They were talking to him, right? Oh,
he beat with me in paradise, bro. Right? This is him. He's bringing it. This is the Christos.
Good. Let's go to the next one. Look at this. Let's go back. Step in the ship real quick.
Oh, can you feel it? Oh, it's kind of yummy. Let's go back to Homer.
Yeah. Let's go back to Homer. Do you want some Homer? I'll give you some Homer. Yeah, love it. Oh,
you strangers. Who are you? Who the heck are you? Where'd you come from on the sailing the sea?
You're here to do something or are you just wandering without a reason? That's the second line.
Yeah. And then on the third line, if you'll notice, the third word in is laestatus. Laestatus.
He says, are you like those pirates that go over the sea? Yep. They wander over the sea and what
do they do? They appropriate souls and they cause strangers great pain, man. Great evil.
Why? Because even when this song was being composed, even at that time in archaic Greece,
even at that time long before classical Greece and democracy, at that time, the world
was under the control and influence of gangs, of gangs, highway robbers. And when you say highway
robbery, you think, yeah, put up your hands. No, I'm going to kill you and I'm going to take your
children and sell them to the next town because they aren't that bad looking.
This is the group to which Jesus himself associates his name when he says, I am not one of these.
Who thought you were one of those Jesus? Maybe it was the 200 soldiers that showed up.
They're going to break up your gang. The only thing you got, brah. Listen,
look at how unprepared he was. The only thing he got is three dudes, three teenage boys. One of
them is the head pimp and that kid has got a sword and he's not very good with it. Right?
Yeah, he's not very good with it at all. You thought all those soldiers fell on the ground
and then got up again. That's not what the Greek says. He says they took Jesus down
and he's screaming, not a pirate. Would you come out here?
To all the weapons. Let's get it back to the text. Back from Homer. We don't need to go back
to Homer after Homer. Here we go. Oh, I love it, people. Thank you for being here with me
this whole time. It's very, you know, I love it. I can smell it in the air. I love it.
Yeah, and what happened? Yeah, so they make him a crown. They make him a crown
from the acacia thorn and they put on him this hematio and porfum, this purple robe.
Yeah, you say, why would they do that? That's kind of odd. Why are they doing that? Right?
This is the one that we've got here. Look at what we're going to do to him. He's not wearing
back clothes either. Go back up to the next one. Where are we going to? Where does Nonus take this?
Nonus takes this. Look at the second line. It says Jesus esthetized clothes. They're died
with the Haimati Kochlu. Kochlu. Do you know what that Kochlu is there, that last word?
That is that sea murex, that shell, that little shell creature. That is the murex. That's why
they're purple because they're died. They're soaked. The clothes are soaked in that Haimati
Kochlu. And do you know if you look this up in Greek, you'll find that it equals Kochos.
It's a flippy dippy of two consonants. But Kolkis is the place that it is because of this
collection process, because of this whole harvesting of the purple and what you can do
with the burning purple. Yes, right. So they're giving them a hard time. They're giving them a
hard time. And again, we're here for associates. So let's try to pick up. The mystery is still not
revealed. If it was, you got to get your money back for your ticket. You guys didn't pay anything
for this. So you can't get anything back. But it's not there yet. Don't worry. I wouldn't do that to
you. I want to give you something good, because that's me. I'm giving. I'm giving him being.
Okay. Verse 40.
Oh, yeah. Yeah. So he offers them. He eventually goes to Pilate and he's like, what is this?
Your truth? I don't care. And then he's like, look, I let one of them out. There's this dude
Brabus, right? He's Lacedace. Right. I'm going to let him out. Can I let him out? Right. And they
say, no, no, no, no, they're so angry. They say, no, no, right. I wanted you to see what happens to
this. Go from the eyes of antiquity. You know what they were doing? They were, I don't mind,
they were really pissed. They were really pissed in hearing how mad they were. And this crazy rage
coming from their mouth. He offered them. He said, look, I'm going to give you one of the Lacedace
that has been taken captive, right? It's been drawn into our Roman cleaning up of your
garbage system. Right. Romans don't abide pirates, man. That's not, you don't have civic order that
way. You think these idiots would come to Rome? No. No, they wouldn't. Well, they did sell slaves
on the slave market. Okay, okay. Right. But they have, they got no control like they do in Judea.
They control the territory. Right. That, that Roman governor is just there to try to keep the peace
and to sort out this kind of stuff. Right. And he says, look, I can let one of these dudes go to you.
Right. And, and just, you know, unbind him, let him go. Next one. And then what, what?
Never mind. It's about the Hebrew. Keep that up there, though.
They say no. They say no, even though he's the Thasma for, I mean, the Thanataphore. Yeah,
no, don't bring him. Don't bring the death. Let Jesus out. Let Jesus out. Hey, isn't one of those
kids? Isn't that kid at the door? His kid, one of his kids after all. Yeah, he is. Let's go to the
next source. I want you to see here for the Hebrew, for the things that the, that you're going to
read or Hebrew and have been translated as Hebrew, they aren't. They're a Syrian. They're a form of
Syrian language. And so having said that, I want you to think about these people that I'm going to
introduce you to. Oh, and by the way, Jesus is closed. I forgot to tell you, Jesus is closed.
They're Thespastic clothes. See that first word? They're oracular. They belong to a priest.
They belong to a king who is God generated. Okay. If you didn't know that about his clothes,
it wouldn't make sense to you why the soldiers were doing what they were doing. Yeah, fantastic.
There's the Thespacios. I want to introduce you now to the mystery. I'm going to bring you to the
mystery. So let me get a, we've got, we've got a little bit of time left and I want to bring you
to the mystery. This says Magdalene Marie Filodakros. Who is Mary Magdalene? She is the one
who loves the tears. The one who loves the tears. If you are to track down
Mary Magdalene, you'll find she is the one who's always associated with the tears. And you say,
wait a minute, I don't see her crying anywhere. No, no, no. It's not talking about crying.
It's not talking about crying. There was the one incident with the feet.
But it's not talking about crying. All right. She didn't get that label because she did something.
This is a cult title. Do you know who takes care of the tears?
What are the tears? Bring me the, what is this? Still working, still working. Bring me the, bring
me the, uh, yeah, the definition. Dachro and tears. Look, look, look, people. Look, look, look.
Number two, that which drops like tears, gum or sap. You talk about that. Tear of the acacia.
Tear of the acacia. Do you want to know what Mary Magdalene's love of tears was all about? It's
the reason that Jesus could be given such an expensive enema. Yeah. Which Judas was not happy
about. Remember, that's part of the deal. Peter's like, Hey, I'm not in the business. Now you understand
why Jesus never gets caught with money. You were like, wait a minute. He's the son of God.
He loves everything. He don't need no money.
No, dude. He was running an operation. Right. He's not that man that was Judas.
Right. Who keeps the boys going? Who keeps the boys going? Pirates. Pirates love it. Let's go back
to that last one that we were at. Um, yep, that one. Okay. And here she is. She's the lover of
tears next. Yep. To that one. Good. Here's, I want to pull John 1925. It's all going to make
sense, people. There was standing there. I'm translating. There was standing there at the
base of the cross, the mother of Jesus and the sister of his mother. Okay. Stop right there.
There's no conjunction now. This is not listing more people. It goes on to say to Mary's.
One of them of the clops, the other one, the Magdal.
Huh. And if you remember, known as pointed out very, very specifically just now,
this is not in Hebrew. This is in those languages that are filtering down
from the Caucasus, from around the Black Sea down into what you and I call Syria and all the
way over to Babylon. You wonder why Medea, say the Greeks ruled Babylon. All right.
It's the Caucasus. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Wait a minute. I feel like I'm waking up from a long
fairy tale dream. It's wonderful. I love it. Okay. Let's keep going. Um, that back to John.
Where's John? Get over here, John. You naughty. Get over here. Okay. Now more of that. Here we go.
They're standing there at the crime. And what now, now look, it says there's,
there's two women standing there. Right. Mystery. I told you I was going to show you a mystery. Hang
on. Um, one's his mother and one's the sister of his mother. Now there's no conjunction here to tell
you and there's more people. Instead, what we have is the description of those two women.
One Maria of clubs and the other Maria, the Magdal.
There's a, for those of you who are into the esoteric and into the codes, go ahead and take
it down to you. I'll give you a special little throw your bone tonight. Look in the 17th century
before a linguist to tell you that the Magdal is the translation of Magus from Scythian.
It's the way the Scythians expressed Maga, the great witch queen, the one who knows all the drugs
and all the songs and the way to new life and resurrection, the Christ, she who has been
Christ. Okay. That is what Magdal is. These two Marys are not for Marys.
Marys, the mother of Christ is the bride of the clops. You say what? The thief. It's not a name.
Cleopas is a name. Clops isn't cloppa. No. It's the son. Who is this? Who is this thief? Who is this
thief? Yeah. Do you ever wonder why Jesus was taken titles reserved for Hermes? Did you ever wonder?
He's the son of God. You morons. He's the son of God. Not Satanic congregation. I wasn't talking
to you. You guys are morons. It's the people who perpetuate the fantasy. Those are the morons.
None of this impacts them. This radiation that we're feeling, none of this impacts them.
Why did they have to close the canon? Why did they have to establish an orthodoxy?
They had to pair all of the connections that were there to the lactic cult sex rights.
Yeah. Pair that stuff down. Take it off. That's not. We don't accept that. That's not. No. I'm
showing you the thoughts of a Greek who is saying what all of this organization is about.
Let's go. Let's go. I love it. People, thank you for your time. Thank you for your time. It's been
such a nice seven seasons. Yeah. So, here is what, here is what knownness does. Here is what knownness
does with that introduction to John and to the two women. And I'm just going to tell you.
He says, does he support these two women? Does he talk? Oh, my God. Does he? Here comes the mystery.
Are you ready? So, standing there next to the cross, you know, where the people that were gathered,
there is a Tyroid. There's companions. And Maria, right? And Mary, who was the God producer of the
Christ, who was that one, right? Who produced that divine offspring. Okay. And along with these,
the next line says, oh, at the end of the second line. And along with these was this relative,
this relative. And she was a homonymous Maria. She was also called Maria. She had the same name.
That's what homonymous means, right? And what? And she was herself, Mary Magdalene,
the lover of tears, the lover of tears. Now, I'm going to finish it off and I want you to listen.
Please listen carefully. Take it down for one second. Please listen carefully because in this
text is the key to the organization. It reveals to you those who are working the mystery, who are
actually performing it. Are you ready? Are you ready? You don't think you'd have Jesus without,
Jesus Christ without the mystery, did you? Right? Son of God, from the 12-year-old virgin that was
in the temple, right? Right? With whose fingers, the fingers of the midwife were burned because of
what was inside of her. Yeah. On her palpitation. Yeah. Okay. Are you ready? Let's go. Let's go right
to it. What's this last section? So, Christ saw the one who bore and the divine child,
even the one he really loved. Yeah. This divine child. You mean John is a divine child? According
to notice he is. And he says, what does Jesus do, bottom line? He says to his mother, he says this
expression, this, you know, he gives her this little thing to do. He says, hey, lady, right? You who love
the virgins, mother who loves the virgins, and what's he say? Oh my God, bring it down. Ready?
Ready? Look at your virgin son, your Parthenos. You say what? Remember, we're talking associates.
Look at your Parthenos. Yeah. And then he turns to this, to the kid, his student, right? Who's
standing there with them? And he says, hey, check out your mothers, my precious virgin-loving virgin boy.
Oh, seriously? Now, wait a minute. Check out your mothers. There is a duel in the accusative,
in this sentence. Those two women who are there, those two women are active in the mystery. Those
two women are the ones who are creating the sons of God. And of course they are. One of them is the
Maga. The other one is the bride of God. This is classical Bronze Age mystery. And Jesus Christ
is wrapped up right in the middle. And if it weren't for those Magi who came, speaking their
Assyrian or Syrian terms, Jesus would never be where he is now. Yeah. His entire life is a controlled
setup. Yeah. Yeah. You got to be born into it. Think of it as privileged people. You got to be
born into it. And Jesus was born into it at the top. At the top. Yeah. It's quite a market. Quite a
market, isn't it? Okay. Go back. We're finishing off. Yep. Go to that one. And he says, hey,
he says, you know, take her. Anyway, it goes on for a second and say, you know, he took, he ended
up following Jesus' instructions. But then it says at the bottom, this is known as, again, it says,
and this kid is Osporos. He's an Osporos. He's an unceded son. Wait, Osporos? Yeah. He's an unceded
son. This blessed godchild. We're talking about John. We're talking about John. This kid is not
going to be a breeder. Yeah. This kid is not going to be a breeder. He is a person who has been brought
to the world without the birthing. Wait, what? He is one who has not. His mother did not enter
into the pain. Wait a minute. I thought God kicked Eve out so she would have the pain of childbirth.
Yes. Because it's a drug. It's a compound. When I say drug, not a single drug, but a compound.
And it allows you to enter into that state to produce the God child. And that state is a state
of painlessness. It's revolutionary. Let somebody pick that up for obstetrics and gynecology. Did you
know it's better to put your patient into a state where they are completely relaxed and where they
are not feeling pain while they're delivering? Yeah. And you put them into this, not quite before
coma. It's a little bit before coma, before that, right? You pull them out. You put them into this
kind of slumber. It's not really asleep, but you put them into this painless state. And from that,
they bring out the child. They bring that God child. Where do you think they're getting the drugs
for this? It's what the Magdal does. What do you think that Magda does? That's her. You say,
wait a minute. I told you, the Greek used a dual, a dual for those two and their roles.
Interesting. Okay. Let's go to the next one.
Yeah. I think we skipped one there. There was one in there, people, before we,
before we get to this, well, let's just do this quick. Thio Pius. Look, child of the gods. Who is
a child of the gods? Eros, baby. Eros, right? Do you understand why Eros is pictured as a child now?
Do you understand why Hermes is? Do you understand why it is that Mary, she who produces that God,
must be the bride of Hermes? You, right? You've got to be the Pantocrator, baby.
That's all there is to it. And he's like, what? I don't know what that means.
Don't worry. We'll show you. Go to the next one, please. Yes. And yeah, here's the clopea, right?
Look, what is a clopea? It's a theft, right? But it's also the name of a dance. That's cool.
Why? Because, you know, we have a god of thieves. We have a god of thieves.
Always pictured as a boy. Always pictured as a boy. This is Peter, baby. This is Peter. Who
shows up when Cersei's about to poison and rape Odysseus and all of his men? Right? Who shows up?
A boy. It's the boy Hermes who shows up. The boy Hermes.
Hmm. Is this why you have a title that is the Assyrian or Chaldean form of the God
who brings us this magic? Yeah. It is. It is. Thank you. Thank you, Maria, for caring.
For caring that child. Thank you. Fantastic. It's good. It's gorgeous. Go to the, yep.
This is just somebody. This is what he is. Look, born not a natural way. No way, baby.
Right? This is not normal. You don't get god children normal. Yeah. It's just the way that
they do things in antiquity. Now, you're asking yourself, okay, take this last element to complete
the mystery. Are you ready? Take this last element. Tonight I said we're dealing with
associates of Jesus. Associates of Jesus. Are you ready? Open your eyes to the associates.
Open your eyes. Who is this virgin boy? Who's this virgin boy? Hit it, Chewie.
Revelation 14, 4. Yeah. These are the ones who did not pollute themselves with women.
These are the virgins. And they follow the lamb. Wherever he leads, these were purchased from human
markets. And they became, what did they became? Very most ripe, most beautiful. That thing which
you pick first when you see that apple on the tree. And it's got, take it down. It's got so,
so juicy and round. And it's, oh, it's just, it's just glowing. And you're, oh, you know, you know
you're going to eat that thing. Right? It's not those ones that, those other ones aren't ready yet.
No, let them grow there, right? That one that's ripe. Oh God, it's going to be so sweet. That ripeness,
that's an offering to God and to the lamb. These virgins have been purchased.
Yeah. From the market. Do you hear the lace days talking? Do you hear the lace days? These are the
choice prime cuts. Now the modern Jehovah witnesses will say, we're the virgins.
We're the virgins. Let me show you Jehovah's witnesses who you are. You're sex slaves.
You're sex slaves. You aren't who you think. You, you, you bought into a fairytale.
You bought into Jehovah's witnesses fairytale. Yeah. These virgins, how's the offering? And your
God, man is a creepy pirate involved in child sex trafficking. Yeah. You want to, you want to
continue next time you go, you hear this next time you show up to a temple, next time you show up to
a church, next time you show up to a synagogue, next time you show up to a mosque. Remember,
the guy who's in the middle, the guy who's in your good book
is creep. And for the rest of this season, this final season, we begin the trial
of Jesus Christ. Thank you for coming tonight. You've seen the mystery activated. Hail Satan.
Hey, why did you ever change your name?
Why did you ever change your name?
You
