Take me to that happy hour I never had
Show me the girl I never met I want it so bad
Where is that golden palace? Where is that whore called Destiny?
I think she ran on without me
Goodness, do you have it tonight on our finale of season 2?
We are going to shift gears tonight.
Instead of going to the past to all of these places where the people are using drugs that I've been taking you all,
we are going to go to the future.
So tonight it all comes together in this fantastic finale.
Your people will dream dreams and see visions.
This is fantastic.
Here we are tonight in honor of Lady Babylon in our Satanic initiation.
And tonight I'm going to take you to a moment.
We've got a couple of videos for you and these videos will act as bridges for you to continue within those of you who are keeping packed
for those to continue forward, make forward progress.
So the images tonight that I'll be giving you are very, very important.
Can we pull up?
And I think it might frighten some people a little bit.
Tonight may be a little bit frightening.
And that's okay.
It's a little bit of a Halloween special kind of thing.
Feel to it.
Love it.
It's a little creepy too.
Anyway, here we go.
Here we go.
I want to bring up this first passage to you tonight.
Just so we can figure out before we set the timeship.
Yeah.
Before we set the timeship.
Here we go.
Yeah.
I want us to read this.
It's a little pronouncement.
A little pronouncement in Acts 217.
Yeah.
In the completion, in the days of completion, right?
In that final time, we're talking about a narrative here, right?
So in that final completion, right?
God says, I pour out from my Pnellma from his breath, from his spirit.
He pours it out upon all living things, all flesh.
If you have flesh and you can drink from that flesh.
Yes.
Excellent.
Suck it in.
It's a bucket thing.
Love it.
Anyway, let's keep going.
And what do they do when they're in this moment?
When they're in the mystery, right?
I heard another scholar today talking about, we don't know it's the mysteries.
It's mysterious.
You guys are pathetic.
You're pathetic.
They will prophesy, right?
They'll be that prophet.
They'll be able to tell you beforehand, right?
And who's, well, tell me who's going to be able to do this?
Your sons and your daughters.
That's cool.
Sons and daughters prophesying.
That's nice.
And you're neoniscoy.
You're young people.
Right?
What are they going to do?
They're going to dream dreams, right?
Oh, oh, sorry.
Excuse me.
They're going to see the visions or assays, the things to be seen.
Right?
They're going to have the visions.
And what are the presbyteroids?
What are those people doing?
The old people, right?
The old people are in upnoice.
They're in that incubation.
Right?
That's a kind of a really beautiful concept the Greeks have of entering into the temple
in order to find that place of healing.
You can take it down to find that place of healing and to come through a vision.
Yeah, you're entering that, right?
So we are entering a phase in that final eschaton, right?
The culmination.
We are, you know, the purpose, right?
This is one of Celsius's big arguments with the, with the Christians is that, you know,
the divine can't act contrary to nature, right?
So it's got to make sense and it's got to be according to, you know, what you see around.
It's got to mesh with what you see.
No fairy tales, right?
We don't, we don't follow that fairy tale stuff.
To jump to the Christians right away.
I want to introduce them now.
And for those of you who have come who know already, Jesus Christ was arrested in a public park
in the early hours of the morning and a pre-dawn raid, pretty significant, calls himself a child trafficker.
We're at that point now that we're going to, you know, we've got to come to climax here tonight.
We've got to reach the point.
So I want you to, we're going to get in.
We're going to see these drug users for what they are, what they're doing, we're going to smell, we're going to taste.
We're going to do everything that they're doing.
So I'm going to pull out Celsius just for a short quote, just for a short quote, right?
I just want you to listen to it talking about the Christians.
He says they are really very dishonest, borrowing even their incantations from other religions in their magic acts.
So there's a couple of things that are fantastic about that.
Number one, they're doing magic acts, right?
Right.
So, and number two, they are borrowing, right?
They're borrowing.
This is what drives them nuts.
They're incantations.
These are the incantations that the Christians are doing.
You're like, wait, wait, stop.
Stop the ship.
But, you know, wait, I don't feel good.
A little bit crazy.
It doesn't make sense.
Right.
Yeah.
The Christians are doing incantations.
Now I want to show you this video.
I want to launch you from Celsius to this living present.
Right.
To this living present.
We're just going to, before the ship stops completely, we're going to open the door and
get some air from, you know, just the recent past.
We're going to use that air to kind of fill our lungs and then we're going to step out
into that future.
Okay.
Hit the first one, please.
Chewie.
Jesus Christ, we invoke your name.
Amen.
Amen.
Amen.
Amen.
Amen.
Amen.
Amen.
Amen.
Amen.
Amen.
Amen.
Amen.
Amen.
Amen.
Amen.
Thanks for having me, father.
Amen.
Amen.
First opportunity to stand up for our God, given on the honorable right.
Thank you, heavy Father word.
Community inspiration needed, please, police officers to allow us to go to this number.
To allow us to send a message, to all the terrorists, the Communists, and the globalists,
that this is our nation, not theirs.
Yes.
Oh, America, America waves and I say America to go down.
Rise, here we go, here we go.
We're ready, we're back there in time.
Get your setting, right?
We're all in the throne.
Here we go, we're back there in time.
Just take that air in.
We're gonna take one more breath, one more breath of that.
And as we breathe in that air, we are entering.
You're entering the,
what can only be called the space.
It's like a room, right?
You're entering the Eremon.
You're entering the Eremon.
That's where we are, right?
We're in that place where the magus operates, right?
Here we are.
You know the devil's gonna show up sometime, right?
Fantastic, hit it again.
We're here to buy an office and offer the best
and created God for filling this chamber
with your right mind of love, your right mind of army.
Thank you for filling this chamber
with a patriot that loves you and that loves Christ.
Thank you for buying our mission, our mission,
our mission to create God for us
and that we want to us here and now.
Thank you for buying to create a God
that's around you, bring us.
To divine on the present right mind
of love, protection, peace, and army.
Thank you for allowing the United States of America
to be reborn.
Thank you for allowing us to get rid of the communists,
the globalists, and the traitors within our government.
We love you and we thank you.
In Christ's holy name we pray.
Amen.
So who are these people who broke into the state's temple?
This is the holiest ground.
This is the holiest ground of any of us
who call ourselves a part of the American experiment.
This is the holiest ground that we've got.
Yeah, and they took a dump on your image and your image.
You know, yeah.
Who are these people?
How are they, are they known associates?
Are the person we're investigating?
Let's see, they're the known associates in the now.
Now let's project forward.
Are you ready to feel a little bump here?
We're gonna be seeing the future.
We're right at the present, right now.
Hit it.
We're gonna be seeing the future.
We're gonna be seeing the future.
We're gonna be seeing the future.
Yeah, it turns out we got a bad throw of the dice.
Yeah, we got a bad throw of the dice
and the sore tastes have come up, you're boned.
Yeah, this is what, this is where we are.
We're within the structure of this thing,
this phenomenon that's happening.
They're calling it right now, the last revival.
Okay, think about that for a minute.
Think about that for a minute.
And we have them springing up now.
One's been going on for two weeks, right?
These are outpourings.
These are outpourings of anti-government
sentiment.
Yes, yes.
The Romans faced the same thing.
They faced the same thing.
It was like 185, somewhere in that range.
They had an insurrection, right?
They had people who were in a state of fervor, right?
Those people know, those people are tapped in.
Their master was a magus, right?
Those people are tapped into what the currents
of the magic are.
Just ask them, ask these people,
ask, turn to your evangelical sitting next to you
and ask them where we are in the last times.
They will jump right in and you'll get a complete
total explanation of reality constructed around you.
You get an image of a world, right?
Projected from this individual or this group
of individuals.
Yeah, this is the operation of the mystery.
This is the operation of the mystery.
Your people will dream dreams, they'll have visions.
Yes, yeah, that's all originating
from this world, from this world.
Bring that up, Chewie.
Excellent, excellent.
I just want to read this to you real quick.
Smirdelen de gigantos.
Oh, you recognize the word for giant, right?
Nice, you like the word for giant?
Yeah, idon.
Yeah, he's, what's this, what's going on?
We're talking about Ofiuchos.
Ofiuchos is the next line.
He's there that's shining Ofiuchos.
What is an Ofiuchos?
It's one who holds or has or possesses echo.
The office, right?
The serpent.
Now, the trick for this little game is right now,
this is a puzzle, what I'm showing you.
You have to fit together the puzzle
to tell me what it means, what it means.
And for those who are playing the game
and want to figure it out, if you throw it up first,
the answer first, you get an extra point on next Sabbath.
Yeah, very good.
Okay, so let's look at this shining Ofiuchos,
you know, constellation.
We have bring constellations in.
Yeah, that's nice, there you go.
Notice that it's solar, right?
That this is a sun, moon, and stars.
Okay, this is Bronze Age.
Good, good, oh, this is the old fashioned religion.
Oh, this is gorgeous, this is a thousand years
before Christianity was even a figment
of somebody's imagination, right?
So look at this humanity here,
this is what I love, you guys love this stuff.
I have to earn that love, of course, right?
And I appreciate your, I'm trying to bring you the best.
This is good stuff, let me try to show you.
Look at that third word end on the second line down.
This is line 245, Alexi Takron, right?
He's shaking something from his hands, right?
He shakes from his hands.
What kind of hands does he have?
He has hands that are antidotal, not anecdotal,
but antidotal, it's what it's saying literally,
and not literally in the modern sense,
anything can be literal, right?
In the actual sense, yeah, it's the antidote.
He's got the antidote on his hands.
What's going on, and who's this he?
Yeah, Ophiuchus, Ophiuchus, yeah, so he shakes off.
He shakes off his little seismic trimmer, yeah,
and he shakes off the
translated back, yeah.
He's taking away the power.
He's putting off the back, yeah, of the what?
The back of what?
The back of the fire-nourished dragons.
Wow, okay, so I'm a little bit confused, right?
And this comes across in translation,
read your translation of it, and you'll see it's,
oh, this is a little bit messy for what's going on.
What is this person doing, right?
He then takes out and activates his bow.
Yeah, he activates his bow.
He sends out that, ready?
Keep your analog going, people,
because we're getting to the images that you need.
He takes out his curved arrow, right?
He is hitting on the loxious.
They call him loxious Apollo
because of his oblique nature.
Yes, yeah, Apollo prophesies in the oblique.
When that priestess, the Pythia,
like the one that was screaming at Paul.
They prophesy in what's called in the oblique.
They are loxian.
Yeah, good.
So, that last line there at the bottom,
I just want you to notice Ostoy, that word in the end there.
These arrows, these viperine or viper-derived arrows
of the oblique nature of Apollo.
When they are used, they bacheo the air.
They turn the air into the Bacchic mania.
Okay, so we've all been together,
and with these clues, you can see a picture
that's emerging of the right, right?
And you can see an understanding.
The number one, they're using venoms, right?
They're using venoms.
And like our guys from last week,
who are using the purple, they're seeing visions.
And these visions are oracular.
And they go back to the fire-nourished dragons.
And remember, I told you that the dragons are not in order,
but they're actual people.
That's where we're making contact with the real, right?
These are real people.
So when we have bulls that breathe fire, yeah,
and when we have wolves that change their skin,
you're talking about groups of people,
yeah, people who have certain magic abilities.
Yeah, put the, whether they're the singers
or the singers that change time.
Yeah, this is good, this is good stuff.
So amen, amen is a phrase
that you need to get stuck in your head, right?
I am the amen.
When you see those people,
when you see those people stepping forward into your temple
and desecrating it, right?
Your loyalty is not to a political party.
Your loyalty is to that shrine.
It's to that which is the American symbol.
And I think people understand that very well.
The classical world was big on building monuments,
building monuments and bringing that constant veneration
of what was beautiful forward, right?
You don't desecrate those holy areas
because when you do, you lose the benefit
of that power completely.
You lose the benefit of the Republic, right?
It's only when Tom says, it's only when the blood is shed
on the roots of the tree of liberty, right?
If you do not take care of your insurrection,
it will happen repeatedly.
I tell you, as a student of Roman history, right?
When you allow the, when the insurrection goes unpunished,
people end up, you end up with more.
You end up with more.
But what's curious is these insurrections
have to be fueled by a combustible component.
Something that's gonna spark and set things on fire.
I want you to watch again the very last clip
that we showed and this is the modern event.
This is the modern, this is happening.
And as this is happening, the fire that is within,
again, analog, the fire that is within that compound
to be sparked and boom, it'll go up.
And it happens time after time after time, right?
Very readily predictable, predictable.
Run that clip again, please.
After age 30.
Mhm.
Different.
Mhm.
Mhm.
Mm-hmm.
Mm.
Mm.
Tom also said that the greatest threat to the fledgling American democracy
was the Presbyterians. I'm sure it you know you had to be back then to really to
us that wouldn't be really mean the same thing but this revival that is
happening is a part of history it's a cycle and what you're going to see is
it's effervescence it's going to grow it started and it's going to grow to a
point to a point that it spills over and must bring the destruction of what is
contrary to it around it it breaks out it's a power that breaks out I just want
to I want to quote to you just a little bit of lycophan to take us now to the
prophetic side and I'm going to pull out who somebody called the Camarion
Sibyl somebody called the Camarion Sibyl yeah and I want you to know that the
Camarion Sibyl talked about the dipsass the thirst that is induced and that she
said the darkness you may this may sound familiar the sun would become
darkened the word is shaded full of the as if it's creeping up and pulling out
its power that is from the Camarion Sibyl via via lycophan she also this
the within these prophecies we have for example Athens right and we have the the
telling of the war between Athens and Persia yes specifically Xerxes yep and
we have that preserved within it so we have these ancient prophecies remember
the early Christians were called Sibylists for a reason right so we are we
seeing a return of that yes we are seeing a return of the reactivation of
the mystery yeah and it's happening as we speak and will have an effect will
have an effect so I want to say a quick appreciation I also brought some of the
candor that I wanted to talk about because he uses that you know go to the
priests that use the terminology of the mysteries and you can see what's really
happening fantastic and again the Scott the modern-day scholars they're just
like you ask them about a mystery and they're like that's why the word mystery
is there and next time they do you stop them and you say look you cannot take me
in the back alley today right you can't so that's why I had that I had that
priests waiting for you but I just want to say it's been an outstanding an
outstanding season and from the productive nature of what you have been
bringing forward and all of the groups that have been active at the you know
the individuals very intelligent driven individuals who have stepped forward and
who have made this interaction so worthwhile to me with your great
feedback I'm looking at your visions yeah I'm looking at your visions for the
secretive group it's on the inside that nobody knows about yeah keep up the
work keep up the work because we have to refuse to become this right we're not
going that way we're going reason and if the if the proper resolution of that
that we saw tonight if the proper resolution is the antidote then
shouldn't we be seeking the antidote yeah definitely definitely it's been a
privilege and an honor to serve with you I will have one Bible study on Wednesday
and then I will take a week and recoup which means I will spend time pulling up
the sources that I believe would be most desired by you at that time right the
real I mean come on people you you don't need to keep coming back unless
there's real good stuff unless I can pull out the good stuff right I mean are
you in there yeah I've got to pull out the good stuff and I've got to bring that
to you and now that we have figured out how to navigate this ship and how to be
able to get into those positions where we can see what they're doing in
antiquity now it's time to say hey we need to we need to dig in and we need
to go the places that you know people are not gonna naturally be drawn to we
got we got to go to those dark places and we're gonna work with them I have
enjoyed myself tremendously this this time guys thank you so much we've got a
couple of people looks like oh snappy snappy welcome snappy we need
introduction music for snappy snappy you saw the you saw the people tonight
gathered together in that assembly and you saw them perform an action that can
only be described as ecstatic right that was I was pure ecstasy whether they
were in the Capitol or whether they were in that church tell me how does that
make you feel from your perspective and tell us you know were you there have
you been in that you know how's it make you feel it makes me disgusted to be
honest because it's very clear that these people have an agenda and anyone
who's intimate or familiar with the church knows what that agenda is it's
agenda of genocide it's agenda of control and you saw how they were are they
were raising their arms up there they're drawing down that spirit right of Christ
they're becoming possessed they're becoming frenzy they're trying to block
out all reason all thought so that they can just focus on this mission this
Christian national insanity and it blows my mind you know yeah and you know if
you watch they've got a live feed they've got a live feed I highly recommend
that people tune into the live feed of what's going on in Kentucky right now and
what direction of people they have they sing of kingdom and they sing of power
on earth and they sing of with trumpets they have their horns that burn they're
blowing their horn the blah blah blah blah blah they're getting it you can feel
the ecstasy moving up and people come up and they prostrate themselves and they
enter that place right I mean we could put their pictures up on ancient walls
and it wouldn't change you know it wouldn't be any different how does it do
you think that this is a some sort of awakening what is this what is this
thing they're doing this is a this is a panic this is what happens when things
are in their death throws they're recognizing that the culture is moving
on and they're lashing out and they're lashing out with everything they have
so that they can reassert their dominance this is Chronos devouring his
children in paranoia that's what we're seeing here oh I like that that's why
excuse me I like that that's why yeah that's why oh god I love the image it's
like the struggling they're in the they know that their downfall is imminent
right because they can't they did this in the first century as well right and
people say no it wasn't Nero right I mean it wasn't the Christians that Nero
was saying the government was saying it's the Christians that burn burn the
city down and the Christians were saying no it was Nero right why I don't think
Nero was out setting fires scholars debate this and I'm like why are you
debating something that is so patently stupid right of course Nero wasn't
out setting fires and burning his own city down right this is the
conflagration that always comes it's a cleansing right the frenzy is maxed out
and I mean did anybody see the guy was wearing horns who's in the I mean you
can't get you can't get more ecstatic right in the name of Jesus right amen
amen
snappy tell me is it alarm is it being too much of an alarmist or are we
accurately predicting the future that we're we're on our way to another
insurrection right it's not going to stop because it's not going to stop it's
not stopping because right like I'm not an American but it's happening here in
my country too in Canada we're seeing the same kind of extremification you're
seeing the same kind of vilification of gender minorities look at what's going
on with Putin like you showed in the episode on Wednesday right Putin is
making this this change and he's making the new young people the enemy he's
coming at us with everything he has to try and assert that Christian national
control right because they're on the way out that whole methodology that whole
way of thinking it's dead it's old it's tired and it's stagnant it's it's time
for it to go right we got to castrate them yeah what do people think do people
I wonder maybe we can take a poll of the chat but do people think that that beast
is dead or dying we'll say die at least dying or is this resurgence of their
power I mean look they got to 30 they got to 30% and all the historians would
tell you you get a third of the population support you do anything you can
pull down your republic with just 30% report well support right so they
achieved critical mass they achieve critical mass and here they go um it may
be a while before somebody goes into Canadian holy space and desecrates it
but do you see that coming oh yeah so I used to live in the capital city of
Ottawa and I would have to walk by the Parliament every single day and there
are people who have been posted out there 24-7 with massive signs saying fuck
Trudeau and the world the world is ending and like we're gonna we need to
bring God back into Parliament and they scream and assault at people who are
just walking around wearing masks they blare terrible Christian music it's like
I've never seen this kind of level of antagonism here in Canada people don't
act like this here you know we're far more controlled about it but not any
more there's like this rampant fervent insanity and like for the first time in
a long time we're starting to see people who identify like this like we have a
far-right leader named Pierre Poilier who uses a lot of that language you know
he doesn't come out and say it but it's it's this polite way of talking to those
extremists he is a Christian nationalist by any other word if you really listen
you know and that's how these people are they manipulated and they're all about
power they do anything you know do you think do you think that do you think you
guys are getting that on your own or should I call should America call its
doctor and find out you know maybe what do you think we infected you or it's
always been it's a combination because we always were so interconnected to
America that whatever happens in America we have a mirroring effect here but I
also can't kid myself this kind of extreme conservatism and this nationalism
and Christian stuff has existed in many different forms in many different ways
since the since the colonial age so it's it's an intrinsic part of Canada as
well yeah that's why I always laugh when I read Jefferson all scared about the
Presbyterians right he was like no they're the biggest threat right now so
it makes me wonder if it's a what is it is it something in within the system the
program is running and it runs throughout centuries but it's got a
consistent it's got a consistent code in it that tells you abort and terminate
right and then all of the all of the it doesn't scare people that it's kind of
zombie-like I mean you know what I mean it's a little bit zombie-like isn't it
is it you know how okay question how how does it stop how do you stop something
like this if you're Roman in the first century right the answer is a crack down
a government crack down yeah right where you don't you you don't worship if
you're gonna tear stuff up we're not gonna allow you to worship you know get
out of here kind of kind of thing and you you crucify some of them and show
people this is what happens when you do this right you you can't we also see
the end outcome in room with that kind of thinking right that extreme kind of
thinking that led to crusade again led to crusades against itself that's what
fundamentally destroys Rome right when the Catholics and the Orthodox divide over
ridiculous linguistics and philosophy and you know and that's what we're gonna
see with the with the with what's what's happening in America even you know if
these if they succeed in their mission they're just gonna destroy themselves
it's inevitable right we're seeing this hollowing out that's what's so ridiculous
right now is it America's attacking itself you've always seen that machinery
go out into the world and consume but now it's turned inward that's that's the
death rose well and that's I think that's why Tom is so angry because he said
it happens every hundred to 150 years right that it's cyclical so you know
here we are after the Civil War we're right at that mark where yeah this kind
of thing is gonna happen and what do we do are we unionists I mean I'm you got
the same thing in Canada same decision they're gonna have to figure out are we
unionists yeah to what you need to do is revitalize see we need to embrace
change we need to take on that new Dionysian energy we need to get rid of
the old stagnant and be reborn again and in a vitality and then have the cycle
replay right like we need to bring her back right it makes me it makes me know
that you know efforts in building the Tower of Babel are progressing because
that's really what you need you need some kind of universal communication for
the people to be able to respond to this cataclysmic effervescent you know
they're screaming in the video of the of the insurrection they're screaming
open revolution right they're screaming it they're 1776 here we go you know
they're and but what we also need to pay attention to there what it's this
extreme magical thinking too because when you listen to them it shows their
ignorance like they're talking about saving America it's like they're pissing
all over the Constitution even me is not an American knows them bringing God
into this and talking about turning it into a Christian anything is it's
totally anathema to everything the America stands for is it doesn't make
sense is Canada gonna stand with America as we go through this or I mean
there's no reason that it couldn't hit both of us and you guys end up having a
your your form of a civil war right I mean it's been 150 years for us maybe you
maybe you're in for a natural one as well and this kind of global you know it
only makes sense dude we're all over the planet now right so one one country goes
through this this ecstasy and starts marching out people of whatever gender
or belief that they want and and killing him or torturing him or stuff like that
you've already seen a parallel exactly happened along the same lines in Brazil
it was the same people following the QAnon cult they even tried it on the
same day January 6 too much the same results where the the military and the
police came in and just surrounded and arrested everyone they still attempted
they still walked into their holiest sites it desecrated them in the name of God and
the same insanity and like yeah I think right now we have Trudeau who is a
phony liberal centrist who just says what everyone wants to hear but what
we're seeing in Canada is this extreme fervor that I have never witnessed I have
never seen people hate someone so much and that is dangerous I don't know what
comes next but yeah we're not much better a place yeah see that's what that's
what I that's why I wanted to have a conversation from the beginning right
where are we right what can we rationally save and we're at a point where
there's gonna be some sort of tipping over and you know the secessionists here
in the States are gonna be loud enough and do something extreme enough to set
off that natural kindle it's there and they'll they're all saying they want to
right and the racists want to do it be for the obvious reason right they just
want the murder and the mayhem but the evangelicals are doing it because guess
what same motive right they have a plan for the end times and America's not there
if you listen to any of these preachers you were in the church you know I'm not
tell me if I'm saying truth or not snappy but they're saying there's no
America they're prophets they're people who are analyzing the prophets they're
all saying there is no America no America is always equated even usually with
some kind of phony apocalypse like they're gonna burn right America is the
is is gonna be it's it's everything has to be destroyed right you have to have
the Messiah arise in Israel you know this is the thing America's always gonna
be corrupt for this was always an intense thing among a lot of people in the
church that I went to is whether or not you even participated in politics because
politics was so corrupted and was the tool of Satan but most people did because
they wanted to enforce their judgmental agenda and others you know and that's
exactly what celsus argues celsus says the Christians are putting the devil to
use in that way just as a foil just as a foil if we have this huge eruption of
this ecstatic Christianity that's able to spill over and overthrow governments
overthrow entire governments it fulfills the evangelical understanding of
the prophecy that the United States is not is not in the apocalypse that they
have already been taken out and what's funny is the guy that has to exist then
and you just get this off of just go listen to some preachers right the guy
that has to be there then is the great bear and everybody says we know who the
great bear is who will come down to Gog and Maga it's Vlad Putin right so the
Christians are constructing their own reality around them and ecstatically and
we don't even perceive of this until they get into the capital and take a dump
and some senators get realized oh people could have died right and then we're in
the spot that we're in so I'm sorry to hear that you haven't had your your
overspillage yet because it makes me feel like maybe it was something that
originated here maybe it's a we didn't have mass protests so like in my in my
home city we had Ottawa we had over a month and a half of a trucker protest
where they blocked the entire downtown core they occupied the city which is the
capital city they didn't they couldn't make it to Parliament and but they like
wouldn't stop blaring their horn horns they were defecating in the streets
people were waving Confederate flags in Canada people were wearing them wait
wait wait wait wait wait let me see I wait I had yeah I had seen a report on
that I had did not know that they were waving American Confederate flags yeah
there was at least one that was documented for sure and that person
repented and said well I just thought the flag meant freedom and I'm a
libertarian whatever we all know but there was also Nazi flags and there was
also stars of David that said saw vaccine which means like no vaccines
because they were envisioning themselves as the Jews being persecuted by the
government because the government was saying they had to get at least one
mandatory vaccine wait a minute so in Canada then the extreme religious Jews
and Christians you call them evangelicals yeah these people weren't
Jewish these were all evangelical all crazy people they were just adopting
Jewish symbolism Hitlerian symbolism to show how persecuted they are they have
this ridiculous persecution point complex about how masks and social
distancing and all of this stuff is some kind of insane oppression and how they
need to overthrow the government and like like literally I worked downtown at
a like an occult kind of shop in the byword market during the summer and I
would watch them walk into the byword market which is like an open-air like
pavilion and they just be like shouting about how Christ is gonna come and
destroy the Canadian government and like how masks were the first beginning of
this grand like they're oppressed because of fucking masks I couldn't believe it
like people guess what then Ukraine you're bitching about masks guess what
they did to the Romans too right Rome must burn right became the whole it was
the grand enemy of everything that was there that wasn't their theocracy right
so yeah wow what do you project is the what do you project is the future here
what I mean let's let's try to intelligently figure this out what's
the next stage there it's there has there's gonna be some kind of
overthrowing right like this is cyclical you see this time and time and time
again across history across everything it may not have to be extreme violence
but it's gonna have to be an actual transformation there has to be a change
where these people get removed that they're no longer in the power that
they have otherwise like I don't I don't know like I see an apocalypse moment on
our hands here and when I see apocalypse it's like it's either a rebirth or
destruction you know it could go either way and like these people that were
fighting up against their get their for stagnation they're destroying and
they're desecrating nature the mother you know with everything they have and
they're telling us to keep our heads in the sand where they continue to rape her
until we all die that's that's what we're facing here yeah what about these
mobs I'll ask this question what about these mobs of they're like flash mobs
of evangelicals I mean it's not strictly just evangelicals it's it's
the people who are people who are filled with the spirit who are having
there's kind of revivals there'll be bands that go to parks and set up and
they'll just get a flash mob and it becomes an event it becomes an event
where people come and they enter into the ecstasy what do you do the Romans said
you got to stop this and they went in and broke it up and said you can't meet
like this right you can't meet so and they tagged everybody by the drugs they
were using right that was the thing for them what how do you stop these flash
mobs that they haven't turned violent yet they haven't turned violent yet right so
you know well I would say I would push back slightly on that because they have
turned violent in some in some respects we've seen mass shootings targeting
LGBT events and you see a lot of these people target specifically drag shows
or drag story time and usually you'll have specific antagonistic forces that
are present like the proud boys you know with their iconography and they're you
know no fapping in their extreme aggression and you know they're they're
out to target certain kinds of video individuals and as as pedophiles you
know like and they're waiting their weight they're waiting for this thing
called the storm and they're so well armed yeah you have the blue boys right
those guys with the guns who are actually trying to and like they pretend to be on
other people's side so that they can infiltrate and start a revolution and if
you pay attention to these darker places on the internet it's it's all very
clear like all these people you know what it is is that when people experience
extreme isolation extreme division and oppression and we all see the bleakness
it brings that the mania brings that the craziness people react in all kinds of
different ways you know and a lot of these people they get caught up in this
Christian national frenzy and it spills out in a variety of ways it's it's not
all unified you know it's it's wild so what's the if we're entering this
apocalypse then which I think it's fair to say if we have violence at this level
right and you talk about I shouldn't have I didn't dismiss it but I didn't even
consider it yeah we've got shootings all the time that are you know motivated by
this same core right this very well armed contingent these are now enemies
domestic and they'll throw that around right as if it's funny that yeah right
yeah waving a Confederate flag waving a Confederate flag and defecating
defecating on our monuments what a mess is this is this the perfect apocalypse
or what I mean we can have a natural extinction event here you know what I
mean if we're if we don't snap out of it don't you think I think that's that's
what I'm getting at if we don't wake up and recognize what we're doing to to
to nature to our home to our mother what future is there right like you know
there's none without her and they just they're just they they insist on
destruction yeah who were they praying to in the US Capitol they were praying to
him they were praying to a he-god who doesn't have a problem with certain
things like you know killing people that aren't righteous and aren't part of the
plan right I mean these people argue it look at the history of these people
these people argue about who is the most orthodox and why that clan ought to be
taken out right I was sick yeah I was always told about the hundred and I
think it's like 37,000 or something right the chosen people who will get to rule
over everyone for all eternity in omelenda the world to come right after
the apocalypse when the world is reborn and you're living in this
celestial theocracy for all fucking time it's a nightmare it's an absolute
nightmare that's why I think one of the I think the only solution is that tower
of battle if if if christians knew if christians knew that their own master
their own founder their own god the son of god was arrested in a public park
with a naked boy called himself a child trafficker and was part of a cult
that involves sexual relations with children I would I don't know is that
is there any way of snapping this you know sometimes
sometimes stuff will burn itself out by using it's it's all its oxygen up right
and then it's gone the fire goes away is there is there some place of reason
snappy that we could bring these people to that we could show them and reasonably
say look you know it's not your fault that you've been worshiping a pedophile
criminal this is this is an important thing because honestly I think it's it's a
two-pronged thing number one there has to be like you said reason and truth and
honesty there has to be a revealing anyone who breaks free of these kind of
cults has it does so by being shown what it really is for what it is number one
but number two there has to be a healing there has to be an integration and an
acceptance you can't just exclude people you have to
if people are willing to go through that transformation that death
to abandon those attachments those views
we have to accept them we have to let people heal
and if you don't that's when you you you extremify
now you've not given people a way out now they're they're gone
you're bound to fight each other you know we can't allow that
no I don't yeah it's a it's a global event you know the evangelicals will love this
because it'll feed their flames right because come on man that's all I'm doing is feeding
their flames right that it's very easy to get these people going right because they want to
bring the fulfillment of their own plan they want to bring it and what are they always yelling
about what are the guys yelling about from the US Capitol globalist globalist globalist
coming from this old american dominionist theology a theology anchored in an eschatology
that was punctuated by revivals right so of course they're fearing the globalists the globalists
are those who would come in but that what they don't realize is and they always do this preemptively
right it's like it's like a political party that will that will throw something out that they're
doing in order to like create a smoke screen right so you can't accuse them because they're
already accusing the other leader of doing this doing the same thing um the globalists out there
they're doing this with this globalist idea when at the same time the problem is global
look what's sweeping across russia and to georgia and all of the uh all of the fervor I mean did
you see putin's speech it was all about his gaining the religious high ground right god hates god hates
these people and for me it's always important to look at what these people hate and what they
fear okay why would they be opposed to globalism right why why are both putin and trump yelling
about that why because that way they get to maintain their fiefdoms right they get to maintain
their hegemony but their hegemonies are dying they're old they're falling apart we have to move on we
have to let this stuff go and and and be reborn into something greater right like it's it's we're
in a state of absolute insanity at this moment um like someone like putin like he everyone in the
world is telling him the writing is on the walls you have to diversify you can't stay with all of
this raw resources you have to try and incorporate and his full thing is what no fuck the entire world
you guys are the the enemy and then i'm creating this whole third rome and it's a war right you
guys are trying to destroy god and we have to protect the masculine jesus and the masculine god
like we all saw that and what's funny is they never consider but um they never consider that jesus was
people complained about him came to the disciples and complained about him and said he's touching
the kids inappropriately tell him to stop right none of that all that stuff just leaks through
history until you get down to a modern westerner holding up a sign that says jesus saves pro life
right then you realize oh my god look at what's happened just through the flow of history what's
happened with his incredible mania that's come along mania that's come along snappy it's an honor
thank you for taking i took up too much of your time tonight only because it's fascinating
and i uh thank you for coming and if you want to say goodbye say goodbye and thank you everyone
and uh if you want to we'll probably be on the discord in uh in a few uh come there and say hi
take care and have a good night hail satan hail satan everyone show me the girl i never met i wanted
so bad where is that golden palace where is that horse called destiny i think she ran off without me
