I let that liquor drown in my days. Now I'm taking my last ride. I paid the highest price you can pay.
I'm on my way to Potter's Field. The Palmer's Grave is where I'll be. To rest until the end of time for all eternity.
Welcome back to Lady Babylon. This is Satanic Initiation, and tonight we have for you such a delight.
We have a great, great, great love story, and I'm going to bring that to you against the background of some fairy tales.
Some fairy tales. Yes. We're going to look at a couple of big names. We're going to look at Adonai. We're going to look at Elohim.
We're going to look at Yahoo. And we're going to take back those names. Fantastic. Tonight we begin part one with Adonis.
Welcome to Lady Babylon.
Fantastic. So I've got several quotes and I'm going to set that machine that we've got going.
We're going to head back to Cyprus and we're going to find the worship. But before we do, we're going to set the stuff that's popping in the air.
We're going to set that for you tonight with little imagery, and we are sneaking in this imagery to allow you to be lubricated just to give you that place.
So there's that easy motion. Let's hit that first one. It's chewy. Star charts. Bring it up.
Take away all these dark desires that threaten to send her away.
All these things that catch my eyes are phantoms on your food chase.
And here we are. And you're feeling it and you're setting into that throne. Today we're going to see she who is of that many formed throne.
Fantastic. Buckle your seatbelts. We've got to get some cult today. I'm going to flash you up a name.
And I want those of you in the audience who have ever heard the word or the name Adonis.
Adonis is fine. Adonis is fine as well. I'm going to bring you the real name behind that name.
And that is what you're looking at now. Adonis. Yes. How much older? How much older is this one than the previous?
How much older is Adonis than Adonis? Yeah. We're talking Mycenaean. We're talking Mycenaean. Fantastic. Fantastic.
And I'll show you the root. If you'll stay with me all the way at the end, I'll show you the Mycenaean.
This is lovely. This is lovely. So we're talking about Adonis. How is Adonis translated?
Well, it's funny. In the Septuagint, it's all curious. So very conveniently, you see, we're tracing, we're just taking the crime scene, pushing it backwards in time and watching it roll backwards.
Why do they want it to equal Adonis? Oh, I don't know. Maybe it's because that's how they're translating curious from the Septuagint.
You mean Hebrew is being translated from the Greek? Yes. The Hebrew is translated from the Greek.
And that is how we get to Jesus in a public park with a naked boy screaming, I am not a child trafficker.
Okay, let's go tonight. Right, right to it. Let's get right to it. You saw the theme in all of those images that you just got. You take it in the theme.
Now I'm going to take you to the particular mystery. And I want you to focus your attention on this morning.
I'm going to bring you a dead guy. And I'm going to force him to spit out this song of mourning. This was a time when women were worshiped.
This was a time when there are tire ethnic groups where women held all of the power. There were queens. Fantastic. Fantastic.
I want you to take your mind back to that place. And I want to bring you Aphrodite. Thanks to Aphrodite and Adonis.
I'm going to run this clip for you. And this clip is composed of lines from a second century Hellenist.
Yeah, and he is going to be giving you the lament for Adonis, something that spread across the world.
Yeah, yeah, across the world. It's a time when we enter into that midsummer's lament.
Time when we enter that cry. Today we're going to find Hallelujah. Hallelujah. If I were out there, I could hear you on a congregation.
Let's say Hallelujah. Hallelujah is a Greek word. What? Not even Hallelujah. The devil won't even give them Hallelujah.
No. No. No, the devil's not giving you Hallelujah. Let's start through the, let's start. We need to hit the film first, you.
Let's head up and everybody set yourselves for Bayon. Yes, Bayon's morning of Adonis.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And who is this Adonis for whom so many women weep every year?
So many women. We take our, we take our pots and we put our little flowers that are going to rise and die and put those on the roof.
Yeah. And we go through this process of celebrating. Whoops, I got on the wrong side of the ship. So we start celebrating, right?
What are we celebrating? We shave our heads because we honor Adonis in his death. This is for the women.
Okay. Historically, I'm just going to put it out there from the text. These are the voices. What I'm about to show you are the voices of the muses.
I'm going to show you that beauty. And it's going to start with the one that was called the 10th muse. I just want to throw her name up here. Throw her name up there.
Yep. Nope. That one. First, that one. Good. Sopho. Right. That's the good attic way of saying it anyway. But if you drop down, you get the eolic.
You'll get the eolic. Yes. Sopho. And what is that eolic? That's the Greek that they speak on the island where Sappho lives and is imprecating or begging or praying to Aphrodite.
And what is she praying to her about? She's praying to her that she will bring her love back to her. That her love, who is a woman, will be drawn back to her.
She's from the island of Lesbos. Yeah. And that's, if you talk about Lesbos, you talk about the influences of the groups.
Talk about the influences of all the Scythian tribes, the Amadsones, right? What do they, what do they do? And they're all over Lesbos, right?
And here we have Sopho, who's called the Tenth Muse, who's writing about these. I want to bring her tonight to this love story because in order to understand the mystery, isn't it funny?
In order to understand the mystery, you have to understand the love story. You have to feel and experience a love story. Wow. Wow.
That's fantastic. Why would you want to root that out of society? Adonai, everywhere, kurios. Do you know how Adonai Elohim and Yahu or Yahweh, do you know Yahau?
Do you know that they, that they are all non-existent in the text? They're all translated as kurios.
The Greek is the original people. The Greek is the original. The Hebrew post-dates the original and purports to be the original,
but is a back translation and modification of the original Hellenistic Greek Septuagint.
I'm bringing you those native terms, those Cthonian terms, those native terms that will show you this. Let's do it. Let's go to the first text up here.
Whoops. Here. Let me just get this squared away a little bit. There we go.
Oh, we had some comments, didn't we? We had some comments. I messed up the order again. Comments, correct?
We need to do a couple of comments. Before we jump on Adonis, let's do a couple of comments. These are important because I want the audience to know.
The people who are giving me their time, I'm looking at your stuff and I'm analyzing, saying what kind of responses are there and how can I tailor things to what people are, you know, where they're looking.
It's a frontier. It's a frontier of information. So, yeah, let's go to the first comment and see. Yes, I love this channel. This one's just ego-stroking.
I love this channel so much. Thank you. I've been watching all your shows lately and I love the way you teach and you're down to earth humor. Thank you. Shantel, thank you.
I and you guys just seem so honest and real, not like all the other teachers and preachers. They just seem so confused, right?
Okay. Thank you very much. I appreciate that. I appreciate the support. People would say, hey, that's just as good. It's not better than you're going to hell.
I love that you're going to hell, too. And for the evangelicals, please be specific. Please give me some detail. When you write something nasty, write something.
You know, lately, of late, it's been said that it's been questioned whether or not I'm a meth user. I can assure you I'm not. I can assure you I'm not.
I live in a place that's savvy on all things chemical and I can assure you I'm not.
Thank you, though, for the concern slash suspicion. Let's get one more comment. Let's get one more comment.
Yeah, Lady Babylon or anyone who understands what Oman says at minute 2518, something about hymns of moot.
Yeah, the mercenary poet who fought with Vlad Draku, the impaler. I don't exactly understand hymns of moot.
Yeah, a great source out there for Tar Targ. Great source for you, Targ, is Mike or Michael Maroulas.
And he is, he's a really interesting guy we're not going to go into, but we need to bring in some more of his poetry as we have in pre episodes.
Yeah, look him up, check him out. Love it. And let's go now to the text. Yep, the very first one that we're going to come up with. Take down that, please.
Now, here's what I'm singing, right? I add so ton add on them, right? I'm I odd sewing. I'm I odd sewing. What is that? What is the where's the I odd so there?
Go for it. Yes, I odd so sorry guys, I'm a little bit my timings off tonight. I apologize. I'll slow down a little bit. Look at this.
Right. It's it's because dates make me nervous. I apologize. I apologize. But dates make me really nervous. I odd so be whale. Right to cry. I I to cry I I or to grown. That's what I odd so is I'm groaning.
I'm wailing. Right. Who am I lamenting? Who am I lamenting? This is the cry that one shouts while lamenting I I astonishment or grief I I beautiful, beautiful. Let's keep going.
I odd so ton add on them. I'm crying adonis. Right. This is the group of mourners who is speaking. I want you to get the I want you to get the the whole context here.
You are listening to a group of women who are mourning the death of the Donis, the lover of Aphrodite. And a Donis you must remember his reputation. He's 18. And he has the reputation for being so exceptionally handsome that he's become
the lover of several gods, Apollo included. Yes. Yes, Apollo included. Yeah, fantastic. So he's really, really good looking. Really good looking. Okay, devastatingly good looking. But if you want to judge Donis, judge him by this one
thing, the Lord that they're adopting the coolest that they're adopting judge him. I don't need judge him by one thing.
He's killed. Trying to drive a wild boar out of his girlfriend's garden, where she has planted roses. And she loves those roses and adonis. Donis can't can't put up with that. Right. It's his drive. Everything that isn't her must be.
Stopped that garden that he's in that paradise that he is in. He's the guardian of it. Yeah. Yeah, that's a Donis. That's a Donis. So good looks aside, right? Remember, there's two very good looking, very good looking figures from antiquity who are the two best looking
figures from antiquity. Number two, Adonis. Number one, in the same family, the children of dawn, Iosforos, the devil. Yeah. Yeah. Did you know they're related really, really good looking family? You know what I mean? Adonis's mother.
Adonis's mother is Mira. And Mira is that oily, lubricant, drug containing medicinal, abortifacient, psychotropic that they are using in the right. She's confused in antiquity with Smyrna.
Just like in the drugs, coincidentally, Smyrna, the drug is confused with Muron, or Mira, the drug of the sexual practices on Cyprus, where we know how to celebrate Adonis. Yes, fantastic.
Okay, let's get, hit the Greek, more Greek. We need some more. I'm gonna, we're gonna see the reason that we all came. Yeah. So the beautiful Adonis, right? He's dead. And the loves, the erotes, the loves, imagine one love with his bow, eros.
I imagine that broken up in the universe as an invisible force throughout the cosmos. These forces, these erotes, are mourning. Yeah, they are in mourning. Why is love in mourning?
Okay, let's keep going. Let's keep going. I want to bring up a little bit of, I want to bring a little, a little bit of Sappho into it. Watch this, people. We're switching to Dorian.
Hey, the Aphrodite. Oh, God. Aphrodite is loosening her curly hair.
Alalatai. She lets out the Alaladzo. She lets out that Hallelujah. She lets out that scream. This appearance that you see in the third line, I want you to focus on it. I know most of you don't know ancient Greek, my students, right? You're learning it.
But for those of you who don't know it, that third word on the third line, Alalatai. Alalatai, that is the oldest appearance of Hallelujah. This is from Sappho. Love it. Love it. Let's look at what all of that.
Let's, can we go to Hallelujah? Let me finish translating that before, just so they can see what. Yeah, yeah. So you're shouting and all of your sacred grove where you were with him, right? She's there when he dies, right?
And what is she? She's walking around a sandalos without her shoes on, without her sandals on, and she doesn't have her Plectos. She doesn't have her hair braided. It's all down and she is full of pain. Let's go to the next text, please.
For the next slide, yes. I, I, we're back to the lament. Let's be on, by an I, I, tan kuthere, an O. You know, there's that shout. I, I, right? You can hear it. You can hear the women. You can hear the women there. I, I, they're bringing it up. I, I, right? It's repetition. I, I, right? They're mourning. Kithura, right? Kithura be with us, right?
The, the love itself, the loves, they're all mourning, right? Because the man is dead, right? The man is dead and his form, his holy form is lost.
And then the third line, interestingly, says there is a beautiful form in Cyprus, in Aphrodite, when Adonis lives, but the form dies with Adonis. The form dies with Adonis. Wait a minute. Okay. I want you to stand aside and say, where's the, where is the cult taking me?
Because it's her dissolution. When she, when Aphrodite loses Adonis, she loses the morph, she loses that form. And that Adonis is transferred to the Korah, to the Korah. And now she is in a season of mourning.
And suddenly, I want you to start smelling the kufi. We are in the right. We are with the mourners. We are undergoing the right. And what is our next text? This is going to bring us back. Boom. Yep. Blow it up, please. Yep. We're in the right. Are you ready? The spirit.
His spirit, what happens? Let that spirit flow out.
I will milk the sweet potion of you. Oh my God. I will milk your sweet potion. What is she talking about?
What is she talking about? She says, I'm going to consume the love. I'm going to consume the love. And this great philema, this great manifestation of philos, that which is charming and beautiful and lovely.
This thing I will guard. I will guard this thing. Sorry about the mic. I will guard this thing, this philema.
What is she doing? She's bending. Now, please, the men, shut yourselves off for a minute. Women, we are in the right. And she is taking the last breath of her beloved.
That this is that sustaining wind that keeps that mystery alive. She will eventually recall him. She will recall him, but she must first remember we're a bunch of cultists in antiquity. That's who's dancing around.
She must first place him into death. He must first enter into death and be subject to the great Korah.
When she decides, he will return because Aphrodite will bring him back. Isn't that nice? Isn't that nice?
Ladies who are cultists, we've got to get this thing up and going. We've got enough funding. We've got enough transdimensional funding, I should say, to go ahead and get this thing running.
But we need to put that person into that death state. Once again, it's a central part of the cult. It's a central part of the cult.
Now, everybody put your roses on, because as Sappho told us explicitly, this is only for those who are members of the Order of the Rose.
Where does that rose come from? Where does that rose? I've heard a thousand people in a thousand different places talk about roses and Valentine's Day, and not a single person ever hit the target.
A bunch of ha-martaloi, you know what I mean? Missing the mark. Falling short. Did you fall short? Yeah. Sometimes people fall short.
Let's go to our next reading. This is great stuff. What's happening?
What's happening? Paphia. She pours out as many tears as Adonis. Let's fall his drops of blood.
Yeah. And the earth, the kson, see that in the second line? The guys who were taking Greek, ksoni.
That earth that is drinking up all of the tears and blood, what does it do? It produces anthe. It produces flowers.
Hang in there with me. You really need to be on the throne for this. Hang in there. You produce flowers. The blood produces the rose. The blood produces the rose.
The tears, the tears, the anemone, right? The windflower. Yeah. So-called. Several species, we think. Identify for that.
But Rose, we've got. And that's from the blood. That's from the blood. And remember, what is in that cup? I give you my blood. I give you my blood.
Yeah. This symbol on was so powerful in antiquity that even when Christianity took a hold of the state apparatus, it was still able to penetrate society.
This symbol of the rose and what it meant. Yeah. It is the blood. The blood of the dying God. You must become like a child. Do you have the blood of the dying God? Yeah.
Do you have the blood of the dying God? This is the mystery. Fantastic. Bring us up another one. We've got bullets. We've got a few more bullets here. Thank you for taking a little extra time tonight.
I appreciate it. I appreciate it. Yeah. Let all of those, let all of that murr, all of those drugs that we're using, and they're using a lot. I was reading once an ancient treatise on, I forget what the whole thing was about.
But in it, it had a section on different words in Greek for uterus, what we call uterus today. And in it, it talked at length about different kinds of problems. Chafing. What do you do when your pudinda become chafed in antiquity?
This is a problem. And they have all sorts of oils and perfumes. They've got creams. They've got all sorts of things that they're putting inside, outside, taking them in all sorts of ways, cutting their skin, rubbing it on the skin to get it that way. Yeah. All sorts of stuff.
So, and these are sex drugs. Sex drugs. They're ones that will kill, kill things that you don't want to be there in the process. You know what I mean? Like that one that you can get the gonorrhea.
You know, you got to use some plants. You got to put some toxins in a mix and put it on somebody's private parts. Yeah, you've got to wash out. You've got to wash out the area with these, right? This is ancient medicine. This is ancient medicine.
Let's, these are the people we're dealing with, right? And, okay, let's keep going. Just remember these, the drugs have to be there, right? We're trading this stuff all over the place. This is making the economy roll. Yeah, people should be happy. Yeah.
Yeah, not you, personally, but you know what I mean? People in general. Yeah. Let that myrrh go away. Yeah, right? Adonis has destroyed your, your, your myrrh, right? You've got no reason to have it anymore.
Look at the second line, the hotty taste. These are the forces that always accompany Aphrodite. And if you don't understand the hotty taste, you cannot understand the mystery.
The word hottest is the singular. And you'll recognize right away and all the evangelicals will go, what grace, grace and mercy and peace. Do you know what grace is? Grace is the feeling that you get when you look into the eyes of your lover while you're orgasming.
Grace. Grace. Are you kidding? These hotty tastes are pictured. What is grace in the mind of the ancient world? Grace is a beautiful woman. I didn't, I didn't make this stuff up. I don't care where you put it and where your politics are, I really don't care.
Grace is a beautiful woman who accompanies she who is loved. Wow. Wow. Okay. Okay. Do you see how the, how woman centered this all is? It's incredibly woman centered. And remember our goddess poet who's writing this, she is a lesbian from Lesbos.
Right. She has female lovers. She's a school teacher. She's got students. Right. Okay. Say what you want. Go ahead. I can hear them. Let me hear the complaints. Let me hear the complaints. It wasn't me. It was Sappho. It was Sappho. Yes. And she's falling in love with a student again. Right.
So who better to write about the power of persuasion and the power of grace? That's the other entity that accompanies Aphrodite. Persuasion. Yeah. Desire.
Yeah. Love it. Oh, wow. He met us. Right. That desire, that desire. Are you getting it? And this is from women centered societies. Right. Do you know why we're here? We're only here because of Diana.
We're only here because of Diana. You mean that poor of poison? That archerist from up on the Black Sea who Medea's walking around and everybody's calling her? Do you want to saw? Yeah. That's who we're talking about. She's the one who's planting this, that Diana. Diana because of her son and his disrespect.
The fact that he was disrespected. Right. He cursed Aphrodite. Diana's son cursed Aphrodite. Right. Wow. How is this the Virgin Goddess? Because that Hippolytus is that child. She was his leader.
She was the head huntress and he was the follower. He was the devotee. And when you're in a Bronze Age society where women are leaders, there's a special relationship with that devotee that is like a mother to her son.
And what happens to him? He gets killed by Aphrodite. He gets killed by Aphrodite. Do you know why? Because he disrespected her and he was a mortal. Shame on him. Right. This is Aphrodite. Aphrodite has the power to do things. She made an entire island, an entire island of women. She punished them for not respecting her.
This is what happens. What happens when you don't respect Aphrodite? I'm going to tell you from the text. These are the Lemnian women. I'm going to tell you for all certainty. Our texts say the Lemnian women suddenly became very, very smelly in places of holiness where rights should be being celebrated so that they can come to the Hallelujah.
Because the only thing the poet wants is to find that Hallelujah. To drink that Hallelujah from Aphrodite's lips. Bring up the Hallelujah. Bring up the Hallelujah.
I'm going to blow that guy up here. He's all timed up there. I can't see it. Aladza. Yeah. Cry or shout aloud, right? That's okay. Cry and shout aloud. Look at, we have it of Bacchus. I just want you to look at paragraph number two or section two. Generally a cry and shout aloud especially.
And you guys never believe me. I know you don't. It's not you personally, but this always happens. I tell people things and they eventually come back to me and they say, oh my God, you were right about that. You were making that up. Yeah, no, no, no. This is of orgiastic rights.
Right? It's a shout. Hallelujah. Hallelujah when that Seder has brought you to that place of complete and total ecstasy. That's why he's been plugged in. He's got a good 24 hours before that stuff wears off. Yeah, and he's good for it for another 24 hours.
We'll kill him if we take it much further than that. Remember the society that we're coming from. This is a society with a female central authority. Right? Okay. Okay. It's gorgeous, gorgeous. Let's go back to the, let's go to the next, whoever comes next. Right? Yeah. Oh, look at this. Oh, what happens? What does the chorus do of women?
They try to incant him. They try to, they try to bring him back. These are epodes. You know what epodes are? They're ancient songs that can affect your surroundings. Whether it's bringing a hailstorm, whether it's destroy your neighbor's crops, whether it's give your neighbor a disease, start a pandemic, whatever you want.
These are the apotic forces, cosmic quantum force. And that's what we're doing. We're being epodes. We're using that magic. People said Medea's drugs were strong, but even stronger than her drugs were her songs. And that's why the fleece is an animal skin with the song of the queen written there on magic ink.
Guarded by a dragon in a grove of Mars, specific place on the east side of the Black Sea, Georgia, modern day Georgia. Fantastic. Let's translate. Oh, and he's not going to listen to you. So they're incanting him like the witches, right? Do you know who screams hallelujah? Do you know who screams hallelujah in Greek? And we're getting back to the Hebrew. Don't worry. We're not, we're not done with Adonai. Right? We're going to get back to that.
Fabrication because I'm taking smell the original again, 1000 years before they have even proto Hebrew. They've got this.
Somebody wrote to me this week. I'll just take a two minute break with this. Somebody wrote to me this week. I love it when people do it. Somebody wrote to me and said, Hey, I'm curious about this thing called the Moabite steely. Right? What is it? And what?
I don't know. I don't know, but I looked it up and it's not even in Hebrew. Right? Well, it has the name of God. It looks like it's a Phoenician and what people say it's, there's a chance it's fake. You mean it's not a, did they find this at a dig or didn't they?
Right? Well, it's been questioned. I think it's real now. What is it? It's not Hebrew. The point that we're bringing is always do the research with the evidence. Don't come up with stupid ideas. Just present the evidence. We have no Hebrew.
You say we have inscriptions. Yeah, most of them are one letter that could be scratches as well as a letter. There is no library. We are drowning in the Greek. We are drowning in it. And Adam and Adonis come from this Mycenaean old Greek, old Greek.
Yeah. So we're in trouble, people. The reality that we've presented is not there. Let's just go ahead and flash the Mycenaean up there. Here's the root. Look at this. Adinwata. There's your Adon root. You like that? Your Adon root. Fantastic. Gorgeous.
Oh, by the way, that's a personal name. That's just some dude that was, you know, scribe of so-and-so or somebody who owed the palace money or something. Got his name written in there.
Right. Okay, good. So we've got that root straight up. Let's go back to the forms now. Wherever we were next, let's, yeah, go ahead, go ahead. Let's just keep, let's just, those are good texts. Go ahead.
Look at this. And they tried to bring him up, but what happened? He couldn't, right? Why? Because in that second line, the Korra. The Korra wouldn't let him go. Right? She wouldn't let him go. You must be, again, for those of us who are in the right, you must be possessed by the Korra in death in order to be born again. Good.
Good. Do you understand? Okay, we're getting closer. I know. Just focus on that image. Next text. I'm going to hit him again. Hit him with another one. Yeah, look at this. Just so we don't feel that we're out of place with the hallelujah and out of context. This is what the seminarians, oh, let me get my whip. This is what the seminarians, oh, I love this. Stop it. Oh, I love it. Learn your Greek. Oh, it gets so red.
This is, oh, it shouldn't feel so good, right? Something like that shouldn't feel so good, but it does. It feels so good. Okay.
I don't want to get too far away from Jesus because he touches upon the whole Adonai business. Let's look at that quote.
And so they came to, they came to this house, the house of the guy who was leader of the synagogue, right? Remember synagogue? Greek word, right?
Soon I'll go again, right? And what did he see? He sees this crowd of people and their clientele. They're like wailing and they're hallelujahing. You see the alaladzontas? They're hallelujahing.
And what does he enter into the place and he says to him, hey, what are you, what are you crowd making for? What are you, what's all this yelling about? He says the kid isn't dead. She's just sleeping.
Right? It's a crowd of mourners because had a synagogue's daughter has died. Yeah. Yeah. And what are the mourners doing? They're entering into the hallelujah. They're entering into that place of mourning.
It is a right that very much is centered upon what you and I call death and burial. The whole experience of death and burial and mourning wrapped up into a mystery centered around lovers centered around lovers.
Yeah. We're getting closer to bring us the next text. I can hear it. I hear somebody out there is coming, coming to the peak. I know that you are poikilothron.
Remember that word that we saw? Leave that up there to me. But remember that word that we saw on Nero? Right? Yeah. Yeah. The polutronon, right? That polythronic.
So this is the poikilothronic. The poikilothronic Aphrodite. And it's Aphrodita because of the, because of the Doric. Wait, what? Yes, the worship of Aphrodite and the Donus is Doric.
How do we know? Because the language they're using, it's all Doric, baby. They love this stuff.
Okay, cool. They weren't so sped invaders, after all, were they? Well, look what they left us. Remember, the Eolians are involved. As soon as you get the Eolians involved, you're going to be square and dactylic hexameter, right?
Woohoo! Love it. This is music. This is music. They sang when they spoke. Something higher going on, right? A lot of drugs. Stimulating their brains higher and higher.
You know what I mean? And here she is. She's immortal. Athalata, right? And she's the Paideos, the son of God. Oh, excuse me, daughter of God.
I forgot. You've been with the son of God for so long that you didn't know that there's a daughter of God who is our morning star, the Donbringer.
Yeah, she's the one wearing that golden bra that Jesus puts on in the apocalypse before he wipes everybody out, right? He's got all our attributes, right?
Think about that. There is a religion right now that is waiting for their cross-dressing son of God to come back so he can maniacally slaughter us all. Serial killer, divine style.
Where's that guy's naked boy? Whatever happened to that naked boy that was with Jesus, I tell you, I'm going to find him to 40 minutes or so.
I'm going to find him. I'm going to find that naked kid. I don't care where you guys have hidden him, right?
When we go through it and we end up in the ion, as they call it. Yeah, I'm going to find that kid. I'm going to summon his ghost. I'm going to pull him toward me.
Yeah, and I'm going to use him. I'm going to use him as an instrument of my righteous indignation against the God who comes wearing the costume of Venus in order to massacre.
Remember, David, you can talk about Adonai and Psalms. You can talk about Adonai and Psalms and every time you're going to find a kurios there.
And that's why the Hebrew scholars who screwed up said, oh, let's be unoriginal and say this word goes back to meaning Lord. Thank you. It was already there in the text, right?
They're doing the best they can. They're doing the best they can. What can you do with 8000 unique words against hundreds of thousands? You can't. You can't compete.
In order to appropriate, you have to drag that stuff in. You have to say, well, we're going to cover that up. We're going to give you an artificial surface there. You don't know what's underneath.
Don't look what's underneath it. Why would you want to appropriate that material anyway? Why would you want to steal and create an Adonai? Why would you want to do that?
Identification is a funny thing. And it does. It drives our societies and peoples to do certain things to create justifications.
It's a very dangerous. It's a very dangerous manipulation. What do we hear for is true sadness. We're here for the history. We're here for the facts. We just want to know what happened.
We're just part of the union, man. We're just following along. We want to know. Give us the facts. Bring us up to that. I'm sorry. I'm a little bit preachy tonight. I'm going to lose my audience because I know you guys have important things to do.
Give me that one. Go ahead. Go ahead. Yes. Yeah. Who are we praying to? We're praying to that.
That one who has that intense wit. Now, back at the date, right? She is the one who has that intense wit. That way of thinking to be able to weave the cosmos around herself.
Yeah. You have to have a lot of here. If you're going to muse the universe into existence. What? The Greek thought that the universe was the production of a woman's brain?
My inner Yahudi says that's not bad. My follower of Yahweh says that's not bad. Right? Kick out the wife anyway. We didn't need her anyway.
There is no divine feminine. Where's the divine feminine? Right? They're all killing female prophets. Did you know every one of these prophets has blood on their hands? And it's feminine blood better yet.
Right? They're trying to get rid of this. Solomon was bringing that stuff back in. Shout out. Shout out to everybody in Israel who I had the pleasure of working with.
Yeah. Shout out to you guys. I hope your, I hope your religious, your religious right doesn't take out what you're doing. I see what's going on. Right?
Did everybody see the fights that are going on? Oh, that's booba. You called it. You called it. Love it. Love it. They all follow reason. Yeah. They all follow reason.
My buddies at least. Right? Love it. Love it. It's good stuff. We want to see the reality. We want the text and we don't want you telling us what to do and what to wear and how to behave.
We don't want your rules. We want reality. Good. Let's go to the last, we're going to get to the last text. I got a little overly preachy tonight. I apologize.
Yeah. What's so ever? And finally, we end up with Lady Babylon. What's so ever things? You know, in whatever way she glorified herself.
Right. Right. What are you doing? Look at the str root in that one. Right. Sigma tau row. There it is. Right. What is that? What is that when you do that?
Um, yeah, you're entering that place of establishment with within the mystery.
Yeah. How do how do we're Victorians? How do you squeeze that metaphysicality out of a Victorians backside? Bring us the next slide.
Bring us the next section. Here it is. It's wax wanting wax wanting you program all of that into a Victorians head from 1850.
And they translated as to wax wanton. You have done this stuff, this stuff to glorify yourself, Lady Babylon, and to wax wanton.
You who wax wanton, Aphrodite, you who wax wanton. If there was no waxing wanton, there would be no Cyprus.
There would be no Aphrodite in Adonis. And guess what? You miserable, miserable human being. There would be no you.
For those of you who do not all honor Aphrodite in life, you receive your own self merited punishment.
Yeah. That you will never enter into that true hallelujah, that true place. Yes, you won't. And that's a curse. That's a curse, right?
Right? I curse your smelly parts, says Aphrodite. What do we do? You didn't honor me. I curse your smelly parts.
We will honor you now. It's too late. It's too late. The offense is already there. Your life is the offense. Smelly parts for you.
Do you have smelly parts? Yeah. Are you one of those? Do you need cleansing in the mystery? Do you need that purgation?
Bring up the next slide. Yep. Take a look at this. Yep. Go ahead. That one.
Oh, wrong one. You are subject to the universe as much as the next person.
You thought your life was independent and that you were living without any sort of thread being written through your life.
Your entire existence from beginning to end is a testimony. Wait, what? Yeah, is a testimony.
What is that? Can you feel the ancient vibe? Can you feel that place where your word is everything and oaths, oath breakers, liars as we call them today?
Oath breakers can't be trusted. You can't give those people power and oath breakers will take apart your democracy.
Yeah. You are the living punishment. That's a Chaldean talking through me to us. You are the living punishment. Fantastic. Fantastic.
Who is this Adonis? Who is this Adonis? I put this up top. I'm sorry.
Where is the, oh, it's not, no. Oh, it's there. Yep. No, that's not it either. I guess I forgot it. Go ahead and take it down.
I wanted to finish tonight by giving you the climax and the climax is in the name.
The name is not Lord. It is not a made up Hebrew word to represent a Greek word that was much, much older.
It is a root and a concept which comes to us from the very heart of everything, mystery, religion and antiquity.
It comes to us for the root for the nightingale, the singer. Right? Here it is. Look at that. I managed to come through.
I might get that Adonis still. The song stress, right? The nightingale. Right? Who is that singer? Who is that Adonis? Who is that Adonis?
Who is the singer? That is what Aphrodite is looking for. She is looking for the singer who cannot tolerate the corruption of her garden.
Yeah. The one that would rather die than live with the defilement of her roses.
That's the Adonis. That's the one we enter into Hallelujah with. That's the one who's been a model for both Orthodox Judaism and Christianity.
Tonight you see clearly Adonis. Curios. Hail Satan.
It's going to break her heart, not knowing what the...
