...
HBO   YouTuber    YUN
� בכ � observations
ᶸ1 ᢸ morte
ᶸ6 ᢸ
ᶸ7 ᢸ
I'm delighted to be able to come to this assembly again, this unholy assembly.
It does me great, great pride. I am going to force upon you the soul of one Carl Jung and from Carl Jung
We are going to make a deeper dive into the actual magic that was guiding Carl Jung and his mystery.
Excuse me for one minute.
Carl Jung
Carl Jung
Without further ado, Carl Jung, please.
Carl Jung
Carl Jung
Carl Jung
Carl Jung
After the second prayer, you will see how the disc of the sun unfolds and you will see hanging down from it, the tube, the orange of the wind.
And when you move your face to the regions of the east, it will move there. And if you move your face to the region of the west, it will follow you.
And just like that Carl Jung was sucked into Saturnian vision and where did he end up?
And incidentally, I knew, I knew, now this is it. This is the vision of my patient.
But how could you be sure that your patient wasn't unconsciously recalling something that somebody had told you?
Oh no, quite out of question because that thing was not known. It was in a magic papyrus in Paris and it wasn't even published.
It was only published four years later after I had observed it with my patient.
We can extract it from Carl Jung. He's bad and he deserves it. He deserves what he gets.
The Lieber Noeus, the Lieber Noeus, the new book that Carl Jung wrote and then had buried until a certain time to be released, which has been released.
And scrutinized by every sort of critic authority, academic, you name it.
Let's look at it with the eyes of the Bakant.
If we really were in charge, if we were in control, if we were sitting on the throne, for those of you with fears to hear.
If we were sitting on the throne of Satan and we were able to reach into his capacity to bring past teacher and present into one moment, we would be able to take Jung and magically transform him.
I want us to go where Jung tried to lead.
I want us to look at what they call the Liturgy of Mithras.
Yeah, the Liturgy of Mithras. What is that? That doesn't help. I want to get down to the level. Remember the timeship?
I want to get down to their level and see what's happening.
Okay, so I'm taking you tonight on this merry Christmas night.
I'm taking you to the place where all of this comes from.
I'm taking you to an actual cult ritual.
Now, word has it that the profanation or the making common of the cult ritual of the Mysterion will cause instant lightning.
From Zeus upon the Revelation.
If I'm bathed in that lightning, I will know the Ion.
Let me show you that drugs can make you high or according to the magical papyri, they can make you cosmic.
Let's look at the ones that make you cosmic.
And again, let's remain scientific about this.
I have no theories for you. I don't want your cash.
I don't want charged you to ask me a question.
I don't want any of that corruption or pollution.
I just want the text.
And tonight I want you to look as you were gale with a series of images.
I want you to look at Mithras and the Liturgy.
And I want you to ask a couple of questions here.
I'm going to read to you just the introduction.
And I just want you to follow along in your mind's eye.
Be gracious to me, O Providence and Psyche.
As I wrote these mysteries handed down, not for gain, but for instruction.
This is what Jung was referring to.
So when we look at his magic book and I show you how to use it and break the seal, absorb the seal, then don't be surprised.
Now watch this. This is gorgeous.
Yeah, he's invoking, right?
It's a prayer.
Yes, I don't write these things for gain, he says, but for instruction.
And for an only child, I request, I think it's a bad translation because it's monos.
Remember my advisor, Dr. John Scarver was one of the translators in this text, in this work.
And we oftentimes scrutinize translations that it's just so difficult.
I can see the translator's difficulty, but you know, it's tough.
It's tough.
So here we go.
Yeah, not only child, but I'd say one.
I'd say one child.
So and for an only child, I request immortality.
That's what we're doing here at the mystery.
We're burning off your mortality.
Welcome.
Yes, welcome.
Oh, initiates of this one power.
I refer to you.
It's nice.
Which the great God Helios Mithras ordered to be revealed to me by the archangel.
There's directions in here to a little an assistant.
What the Romans called an honest.
Yeah.
What are the instructions?
Furthermore, it is necessary for you, oh daughter to take the juices of herbs and spices.
Which will be made known to you at the end of my holy treatise.
He's going to say which drugs it is that she is supposed to produce.
Right now.
Wait a minute.
I said it's he.
I said it's he.
Why did I do that for no reason other than I've been living in the society I've lived in for the last 2000 years?
Yeah.
Why can't this be a she?
It would make sense.
Wouldn't it?
It might as we read it.
You might begin to see all of that stuff that I told you about the midwife was there for a reason.
Yeah, we're burning off the mortality of the flesh.
Yes.
And why are we doing this so that I alone may ascend into heaven as an inquirer and behold the universe.
Get my cosmic vision going.
Okay, so wait a minute.
Where are we?
I just stepped out of this time shipping into the middle of some kind of rave.
Yeah, exactly.
So this is an operation.
Historically, this is an operation and we're about to get details.
We're going to get invocation and we're going to get details about what to do.
And I want to read you a little bit of that because there's lots of drugs and there's lots of things.
Lots of seeing things.
And there's lots of comprehending the universe.
Yeah, of knowing oneself.
He say, oh, is this another introspective?
No, no, no.
This purports to be something else.
If we don't have a new birth, this is not ionic life.
Are you ready?
Let's keep going.
First origin.
This is the invocation.
Imagine yourself at the event.
First origin of my origin.
First beginning of my beginning.
Spirit of spirit.
The spirit of the spirit in me.
Fire given by God to my mixture of the mixtures in me.
Are we repeating this?
Yeah, right.
This is part of what we're performing.
Nice.
Water of water.
The first of the water in me.
There's a repetitious thing here going on.
We're not being given directions about what's happening.
Okay.
Earthly material.
The first in the earthly material in me.
My complete body.
I blank.
And this is formulaic.
I insert name here.
Whose mother is blank.
His mother.
Seriously.
Is this the patrilineal Greek stuff that I've been surfing under?
Yes, it is.
But it's not.
It's it's it's starting to smell like women.
Perhaps the voice in the beginning who is invoking two female deities in order to save a child.
Maybe that voice is actually female.
Fantastic.
Does Lucifer have a penis?
Yes.
That's the question.
Wonderful.
Wonderful.
Wonderful.
Okay.
So I so and so whose mother is so and so, which was formed by a noble arm and an incorruptible right hand in a world without light and yet radiant without soul and yet alive with soul.
And then we have more walk walk case magikai, which don't let them tell you that they know what they're from.
They don't.
And we know that for a fact because the PGM says that it's using five different forms of something that it calls Orphic gramata.
Yeah, so in my opinion, the best safest guess will probably be old, old, old Greek.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Ellie.
Ellie.
It's not what Jesus said on the cross.
It's what Jesus said on the cross from the mouth of a magician.
Performing.
It's why I'm so thirsty.
Okay.
Let's keep going.
Give me over to immortal birth and following that to my underlying nature so that after the present need, which is pressing me exceedingly, I may gaze upon the immortal.
Okay.
This is what this right is doing.
It's giving you a vision.
A vision.
What kind of vision?
Vision of the immortal.
It's that other universe he says that we don't see.
Right.
It's phantic.
Satan's kingdom.
Right.
Gorgeous.
Beginning with the immortal spirit with the immortal water with the most steadfast air that I may be born again in thought.
And the sacred spirit may breathe in me so that I may wonder at the sacred fire kufi.
So you know they're probably burning kufi right now.
See there's stuff going on in the background that you kind of have to piece together.
He talks about inhaling it in a second.
Okay.
So kufi helps give you that ionic vision.
I know you don't believe me, but just hang on there for one second.
One second.
Here we go.
I born mortal from mortal womb, but transformed by tremendous power and an incorruptible right hand with the immortal spirit, the immortal ion and master of the fiery diadems.
Remember ion that we talked about and who I am was fantastic.
Are you here?
Are you here smelling?
Chronos?
Are you here because you know Chronos is Saturn, right?
Oh, the Saturnian verses.
Somebody asked me about the Saturnian.
Yes, and connection with Satan, right?
And the de-rotification, the absorption of that row.
Oh, very nice.
Those Saturnian verses are early, early, early.
And it's just a link.
It's just a link.
We'll talk more about Saturn.
And this person wanted to know about Dispater.
Yeah, Dispater.
Wow.
You know, you get the throne and you have the Plutus from the throne.
Who's sitting on the throne of Satan right now?
Would you be surprised?
Look, let's just give it up for those who haven't been here yet.
And I've been to this point.
Let's just give it up.
I'll get my whip out.
Let's just give it up for the throne being the analog of the ancient drug.
Yes, the seat of power, which is exercised by the spirit that is in that plant.
That's the throne.
Yeah, Asterion.
We know that, right?
We know what Asterion is.
Can you find Asterion?
Can you be on the throne?
Let me give you the images that if you are on the throne, you'll be able to see the magic of you.
We've got to get there.
We're in a hurry to get there.
Let's keep reading.
He says, we were with Ion, right?
Now you know why you need Ionic life.
Yes, I sanctified through holy consecrations while there subsists within me holy for a short time my human soul might,
which I will again receive after the present bitter and relentless necessity, which is pressing down upon me.
Good, good, good, good, good.
For I, yes, and the sun, I draw in breath.
Oh, now I get directions.
Draw in breath from the rays.
Draw up three times as much as you can.
And what's going to happen at this point in the initiation, which honestly, this is the point everybody comes for, right?
You want that new birth.
Here it is.
Are you ready?
You will see yourself being lifted up.
Awesome.
Told you guys you would fly and ascending to the height so that you scorn to be in midair.
Yeah, it must be freaky.
It must be freaky to suddenly see yourself in midair.
Oh, where the drugs?
Dr. Carol Newlands from University of Wisconsin Madison.
Is it true that Romans use recreational drugs?
Let's get you up there.
You will hear something either of man or of any other living thing.
Apparently your attention is focused on the panic of suddenly floating up into the air.
Not in that hour where you see anything of mortal affairs on earth.
So you wig out for an hour.
You're gone.
You're under for an hour.
But rather you will see all immortal things.
Okay, what are these immortal things that everybody gets to see when they're under the influence of your mystery?
In that day and hour, you will see the divine order of the skies.
The presiding gods rising into heaven and other setting.
Wait a minute.
Wait a minute.
Rising and setting.
Did I hear dawn?
Oh my goodness.
I did hear dawn.
After the kufi, that I may gaze upon the unfathomable, awesome water of the dawn.
Those are those waters of life.
You want to gaze?
Oh, and by the way, they do this at dawn.
Right?
There's directions in the formula that Nero provides.
Right?
We've got it through Galen.
There's directions in there for what you're supposed to do in that pre-dawn session.
So this is right before dawn.
Remember the early Christians all met at dawn?
Why?
Because they're Satanian.
Because Judaism and Christianity are Satanian bronze age religions.
They are in the most basic elemental way.
They are satanic.
Judaism and Christianity are satanic.
Let's keep going.
Shall we?
This is beautiful.
And so we've drawn in.
So at once you put your right finger on your mouth.
These are more directions.
We're at dawn.
Having our moment.
Right?
Freaking out because now we're floating.
Yeah.
And what do we say?
So at once you put your right finger on your mouth and say silence, silence, silence.
Symbol of the living incorruptible God.
Ground me.
Silence.
And then some world-case Magica, the magic words.
So imagine, okay, where are we again?
We're at the ceremony.
It's fries of dawn.
And all of a sudden I'm in this position where I'm entering this ionic life.
I've been drawn up into the air and I'm scared.
And I'm there for the dawn.
And now I'm using that force of dawn to ground me.
To keep me safe.
Yeah.
Isn't that cool?
Symbol of the living incorruptible God.
Fantastic.
Okay.
Good, good, good.
Then make a long hissing sound.
Next make a popping sound and say more world-case Magica.
Then listen to this.
This is what you see.
You do.
You wanted to come along and see what happens in a Saturnian initiation.
I'm showing you what it is.
Right?
I'm profaning this mystery so that you can see what they saw.
You don't need to go out and try to reassemble the crew.
You don't need to go out and figure out how to make these substances.
Right?
You don't need to go out and figure out how she can use them to put her into a state to cause him to go crazy.
Right?
You don't need to.
You can see what the vision is for.
And then we're going to bring it back to Jung.
Because you're thinking Jung is way beyond that.
Nope.
No Jung is right in the middle of this.
Okay.
Then you will see the gods looking graciously upon you.
And oh, first they come and they rush at you.
It's a scary situation.
It's like you have to adjust your frequency.
Because first everybody wants to kill you.
Then you perform an action.
And suddenly everything is normal.
They look at you as normal.
Why?
You're being reborn.
You're being born into an element that you don't naturally flow from.
Right?
This isn't some kind of guru rediscovery of God.
The God within.
Anybody who's sitting around with smoke in the air and feeding you that, I'm God.
Okay.
No, no, no.
What we are looking at is what the subjects of these experiments went through.
And what they visualize in the process.
And the argument is the mystery.
See the mystery is not something stupid or mysterious.
The mystery is that reaction.
It is that vision.
Mmm.
Completely biologic.
I love it.
Completely organic.
Doesn't smell of chemicals or big companies or anything.
It's completely okay.
It's like a human.
It's like a human programming.
You know, it's in there.
It's in the genes.
It's in the nature.
Okay.
Anyway, let's let's see immediately after you said these things, the sun disc will be expanded.
Oh, here it comes to you.
The sun's look at this when we're through coming through the initiation.
This is what we see.
The sun's disc expanded.
Hey, that's why they're all into the solar worship stuff.
And after you have said the second prayer where there is silent silence and the accompanying words make a hissing sound twice and a popping sound twice.
Yeah.
Okay.
You're going to see this.
It's not too uncommon.
So there's vocalizations that go along.
They call the witches the stray.
Right.
The streaks is the screech out.
There's noises that go along with this form of right.
Yeah.
So hissing and popping, hissing and popping.
Yeah.
And immediately you will see what you're going to love this many five prong stars coming forth from the disc and filling all the air.
You see the stars.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Right.
This is this is there's more about the drugs.
And there's much more about levels of initiation things that are seen.
And there's more about how to prepare for this what exactly you have to do and what kind of what kind of acts that you have to perform to get ready.
And he tells you he tell or she or he was writing it tells us lick this up so that you may be protected.
Yeah, lick this up so that you may be protected constantly.
We're constantly getting hit even the even the the the making of totems that will protect us during this process.
You have to have images to help protect you in in this process.
Now the phylacteries require this procedure.
Copy that for the right arm on to the skin of a black sheep with mer ink.
Yeah.
Isn't that funny?
He's putting a song and he shows us what kind of song it is.
And long story short, it's Homer using the sort taste.
So this is a necromanic this myth, right?
Liturgy is harkening back to sort tick necromancy.
And if you have a problem with that, you can just Saturn.
Yeah, something.
Yes.
Okay.
What about you?
What about you?
I want to bring you I want to bring you to Jung.
And why is it relevant?
So Jung now was giving us his little example of the poor lunatic that gave him a vision that he saw then later explained in this papyrus in Paris.
That we just read, right?
He he's he's surfing on that ether.
And he comes up with, guess what, an initiation ceremony.
Surprise, surprise, right?
Here's the neat thing.
He writes incantations and I'm going to take you through the incantations now.
And then I'm going to introduce you to the devil just briefly.
I'm going to let him ask a few questions and then we're going to dismiss him.
Here we go.
Are you ready?
Here are Jung's incantations.
We'll start with this image.
Christmas has come.
The God is in the egg.
Okay.
Remember, you're being initiated congregation of Satan.
Listen up.
Christmas has come.
The God is in the egg.
I have prepared a rug for my God.
An expensive red rug from the land of mourning.
He shall be surrounded by the shimmer of magnificence of his eastern land.
I am the mother, the simple maiden who gave birth and did not know how.
I am the careful father who protected the maiden.
I am the shepherd who received the message as he guarded his herd at night in the dark fields.
I am the holy animal that stood astonished and cannot grasp the becoming of the God.
I am the wise man who came from the east, suspecting a miracle from afar.
And I am the egg that surround and nurtures the seed of the God in me.
The solemn hours lengthen and my humanity is wretched and suffers torment since I am a giver of birth.
Have you figured out the riddle he has?
Where, Vince, do you delight me, oh God?
He is the eternal emptiness and the eternal fullness.
Nothing resembles him and he resembles everything.
Eternal darkness and eternal brightness.
Does it sound like fanase to you?
You should notice.
Why?
Because Jung is using that as his model.
He is using that as his model.
Eternal below and eternal above.
Double nature in one.
Simple in the manifold.
Meaning and absurdity.
Freedom in bondage.
Do you smell the bockens?
Yes, you are going to get to him.
You are going to come to Bacchus.
Subjugated when victorious.
Old in youth, yes and no.
O light of the middle way.
Enclosed in the egg.
Embryonic, full of ardor.
Oppressed, fully expectant.
Dreamlike, awaiting lost memories.
As heavy as stone.
Hard and molten, transparent.
Streaming light, coiled on itself.
And now my favorite part.
Which is theft.
He knows it.
He knows he's such a thief.
A naughty thief.
Amen.
You are the Lord of the beginning.
Amen.
You are the star of the east.
Amen.
You are the flower that blooms over everything.
You should be getting to see.
To see him, her.
Amen.
You are the deer that breaks out of the forest.
Amen.
You are the song that sounds far over the water.
Amen.
You are the beginning and the end.
One word that was never spoken.
One light that was never lit up.
An unparalleled confusion and a road without end.
I forgive myself these words.
As you also forgive me for the sake of your blessed light.
Yes.
Rise up, you gracious fire of old night.
I kiss the threshold of your beginning.
If you are not tasting the orphic.
If you are not appreciating the fact that his mystery is a resurrection of antiquity's orphic mystery.
If you don't realize that you are at a leucis.
That you are with the Christ.
Then you are not a born again.
Dancers await you.
The Bacchus.
Let's continue on with an introduction to the devil.
Bring me back to center because I want people.
It's my passion to do this for you.
To bring you the devil is the thing that not many people get the privilege because he is so.
When the experts speak up about the devil.
When the experts speak up about the devil they usually do so condescendingly.
It was such bad information.
There is so much about him.
There is so much about the dawn bringer.
Why would you not bother to dip in?
I don't know.
This is the beginning of the book the second.
Within the new book.
Written by Jung for a specific time to be released this specific time.
This is the red one.
The door of the Mysterium has closed behind me.
I feel that my will is paralyzed and that the spirit of the depths possesses me.
Do you feel possessed by the spirit of the depths?
I hope you do.
I know nothing about a way.
I can therefore neither want this nor that since nothing indicates to me whether I want this or that.
I wait without knowing what I am waiting for but already in the following night I felt that I had reached a solid point.
I find that I am standing on the highest tower of a castle.
The air tells me so.
I am far back in time.
I am almost traveling in time.
My gaze wanders widely over solitary countryside.
A combination of fields and forests.
I am wearing a green garment.
A horn hangs from my shoulder.
I am the tower guard.
I look out into the distance.
I see a red point out there.
It comes near on a winding road disappearing for a while and forests and reappearing again.
There is a horseman in a red coat.
The red horseman.
He is coming to my castle.
He is already riding through the gate.
I hear steps on the stairway.
The steps creak.
He knocks.
A strange fear comes over me and there stands the red one.
A long shape.
Holy shrouded in red.
Even his hair is red.
That's fantastic.
We could use him in the right then.
I think in the end he will turn out to be the devil.
The devil says,
I greet you, man on the high tower.
I saw you from afar watching and waiting.
Your waiting has called me.
Jung, who are you?
Devil, who am I?
You think I am the devil?
Do not pass judgment.
Perhaps you can talk to me without knowing who I am.
What sort of superstitious fellow are you that immediately you think you are the devil?
I am sorry for what is about to happen.
I am going to bring you raw Jung.
This will hit a nerve that is so deep.
I will get 20 comments on this.
This one.
We have to do it.
He deserves it.
You know he deserves it.
The devil says,
what are you waiting for?
Jung says, I await all kinds of things.
I am waiting for someone of the world's wealth.
Excuse me.
We all knew it.
It is disgusting.
It is not art for art's sake.
What we do not see here to come to me.
He is waiting for the wealth which he has not gotten yet.
Devil.
I have come to absolutely the right place.
Where you expect the devil to be.
To the person who needs punishment.
I have wanted a long time through the world.
Seeking those like you who sit upon a high tower and look out for things unseen.
Is that you in the midst of the mystery?
Are you in that position?
Yes.
The devil is asking you.
Jung.
You make me curious.
You seem to be a rare breed.
Your appearance is not ordinary.
It seems to me that you bring with you a strange air.
What kind of air you have, punk?
Something worldly.
Something impudent.
Yes, now he is talking.
Love it.
Or exuberant.
Or in fact, something pagan.
It makes me want to go over there and have another moment.
I won't.
I won't.
Something pagan.
Can you hear Jung?
Can you hear Jung?
Okay, good.
Devil, you don't offend me.
On the contrary, you hit your nail on the head.
But I'm no old pagan as you seem to think.
Jung.
I don't want to insist on that.
You are not pompous and Latin enough.
I like that.
Sometimes, Jung is funny.
You have nothing classical about you.
You seem to be a son of our time.
But as I must remark, a rather unusual one.
You're no real pagan.
But the kind of pagan who runs alongside our Christian religion.
He's doing that all the time.
You truly, you're truly, the devil says,
you truly a good diviner of riddles.
Oh, you're doing better than many others
who have totally mistaken me.
Good for you.
Yeah, good.
You sound cool and staring says Jung.
Have you never broken your heart over the holiest mysteries
of our Christian religion?
Are you ready?
We're about to.
You're a devil.
You're an unbelievably ponderous and serious person.
Are you always so insistent?
I love that.
I love that.
Did you see that in the interview?
He's there.
You saw that.
I would before God always like to be as serious and true to myself
as I try to be blah, blah, blah.
Jung devil.
You're superstitious and too German.
You take literally what the scriptures say.
Otherwise you could not judge me so hard.
Jung a hard judgment is the last thing I would want.
But my nose does not play tricks on me.
You're evasive and I don't want to.
And you don't want to reveal yourself.
What are you hiding?
The red one grows redder devil.
I hide nothing from you.
You true heart and soul.
I simply amuse myself with your weighty seriousness
and your comic veracity.
This is so rare in our time, especially in men who have understanding at their disposal.
I believe you cannot fully understand me says Jung.
You apparently compare me with those whom you know, but I must say you for the sake of truth
that I neither really belong to this time nor to this place.
Listen to him.
It doesn't matter.
You're here.
So shut up.
Answer my questions.
A spell has banished me says Jung to this place and time.
Nice.
I'm really not what you see before you.
Devil, you say astounding things.
Who are you then?
Jung, this is irrelevant.
I stand before you is that which I presently am.
Okay, it's going to get ugly.
Here it comes.
Why am I here like this?
I do not know, but I do know that I must be here to justify myself according to my best knowledge.
Not what you're saying to yourself.
I know just as little who you are and as as you know who I am.
Devil, that sounds very strange.
Are you something of a saint, hardly a philosopher?
Jung then picks up in a few lines and says, you are ensnared in your own world,
but you might conceive that one can assess the worth of Christianity correctly without being a downright saint.
He continues, you're stubborn.
What I mean is that it's hardly a coincidence that the whole world has become Christian.
I also believe that it was the task of Western man to carry Christ in his heart and to grow with his suffering death and resurrection.
And now the devil says, hold your ears.
Well, there are also Jews who are good people and yet had no need for your solemn gospels.
And Jung says, you are, it seems to me, no good reader of the people.
Have you never noticed that the Jew himself lacks something?
One in his head, another in his heart, and he himself feels that he lacks something.
Now, meet the devil.
Devil, indeed, I'm no Jew, but I must come to the Jews' defense.
You seem to be a Jew-hater.
Would you like to hear what Jung says when the devil puts him right in the spot where he should be?
He says, well, now you speak like all those Jews who accuse anyone of Jew-hating who does not have a completely favorable judgment.
Do these things sound familiar?
Yeah, you're reading the air of the tongue, of the ion.
While they themselves make the bloodiest jokes about their own kind,
since the Jews only too clearly feel that particular lack and yet they do not want to admit it,
and that's all I can swallow because he doesn't know himself.
It's no wonder that the devil wanders.
What's happening to Jung?
We're taking it to him for writing a magic book with a seal.
And we together can use the throne of Satan to find those places that he calls cosmic.
No money, just art, just reason.
Thank you for coming tonight.
We're going to talk now, we're going to have Rob and I want to talk about a couple of questions that were presented.
And hopefully we can keep embedding, keep embedding back in the souls of the dead, the satanic, the satanic right.
You might be surprised what the devil is doing there,
and you might, when you get to the South Pole, realize that you really could be standing on the North.
Yeah, you might just be disoriented.
Rob, how are you, Rob?
Just unmute.
Yeah, alright, after that, engrossed, fully engrossed in that.
Very, very good.
Can you hear me okay, because I've got a new mic.
Yes, no, your mic is lovely.
Bravo, bravo.
You've got some questions from the gallery, tell us.
Yep, we're going to go from Jung to Nonus.
We want to, it's Lady Rowan, Allie Rowan, and she wrote quite a bit.
I don't want to paraphrase, but I can't read the whole chapter out.
There's quite a few paragraphs.
So I kind of paraphrased, and I hope I've got it right.
You're going to have critics.
She's concerned that you're going to have critics regarding Nonus, and his paraphrase of John.
Maybe some of that is coming through his Diana Siaka, as you might be opening up yourself to some criticism there.
And why would you choose a fifth century paraphrase over all the available Gospels?
Yeah, yeah, great question, excellent question.
There is a little bit more, I'm afraid.
Okay, let me answer that first.
Could you put the question up on the screen, please?
Edited, possible.
Lovely, thank you.
Sorry.
What I would say right off the bat is that what am I doing there?
I am doing in Nonus, following the drugs.
So all I'm doing is I am trying to assemble the picture of antiquity from the perspective of the drugs and the drug users.
So what I would say to her is what Nonus does that's so important is that he recognizes the sexual value of that drug,
not just the monetary value, it's worth so much, and that's why it should have been so given to the poor.
But the fact that he presents her as she does with the Muron that he knows, and why does he know that it's a sexual drug?
It's the same reason that Pope Gregory knows that rust on your vagina is chafing from Robigo,
the activity of the priestesses in the temple of Aphrodite, who are performing their acts and becoming chafed.
So I'm looking at Nonus for the drugs and the drug references.
And when he presents it within the context of her, for example, her sultry hair,
the Muron starts to take on its native aspect.
So Lady Ron, this is what I mean.
If you go to the Dyskordies, or you go to Galen, or you go to Skribonius,
and you start looking, I would advise the Dyskordies, and you start looking at what the Muron does,
and you just put together as a compound what all of its ingredients are used for,
and you see that it's used for all of its practical purposes in antiquity,
whether it be abrasion relieving or abortion inducing,
that you look at that and say Mary is carrying this stuff.
I don't need an argument. I don't need a conspiracy.
You know that Lady Ron, we're just going for the evidence.
That's why I like you, because you look at the evidence.
So look at the drugs and ask yourself, what is that Muron?
Dyskordies, you've got a great first century source that tells you exactly what that Muron is.
So when Nonus brings up, and one of the reasons I like Nonus,
he actually talks about the antidote that was given to Jesus on the cross,
and you could also ask why would I use the Geoponica,
a Byzantine work on farming, on agriculture,
because it talks about drugs and antidotes,
and it says that vinegar is the name for the antidote to the dipsess, just like Nonus.
So what I'm looking for in Nonus is the pharmacology.
The historians, the religious historians, the classicists,
have not caught up with the sources.
They have not caught up with the sources.
So when someone challenges,
the easiest way to knock them off their block is just to say,
hey, have you read Dyskordies?
Okay, say, hey, have you seen Nero's magic formula in Galen?
And they're not going to know any of that stuff.
They're not. It's the big weakness.
I've been there in the business.
I can tell you what its weakness is,
but to me that's comforting because that's the avenue that we can take
to get the real picture of what's going on.
It's the drugs, right?
Now, a lot of people have asked me, they've said,
drugs, what you're saying is they're using drugs and religious right.
And it's so disturbing to me having read as much as I have from antiquity,
not modern takes on it, but from antiquity.
For somebody to step forward and say, we're still questioning,
did you see what we just read from the Greek magical papyri?
Did you see how the drugs are integrated in the vision?
So for the head of the department at the University of Wisconsin,
step up and say that Romans just wouldn't do such a thing,
is complete and total ignorance of the things that she's supposed to be guarding.
So Lady Rowan, that's what I would say.
Could we deserve more detail on the precise action of Mary
and what she did with the alabaster?
Lady Rowan, you still have to argue with people about the alabaster.
You still have to argue.
We have to try this from the last 500 years,
thanks to King James and his knuckleheads,
which by the way, he wrote a great work on demonology,
but his translation is just accept that this is the Hebrew.
Just accept it, forget about the fact of the Septuagint
and how it says completely different things, right?
So yeah, King James, all influenced by a,
when people become influenced by a cause or an orientation
or a bias where they want to set out to prove something,
you know you're in terrible shape, just go to the sources
and that's what I would say was known as.
Known as is just another way, another support for the fact
that they were using these pharmacological items
and Mary was using one that's very popularly used
by devotees of Venus for the sake of sexual health in temples.
Get over it, right?
That's the beautiful thing.
Read the pharmacology people, it's not.
Yeah, it doesn't have to be as crafty as you think.
There's no theories.
Please, the last thing I'm going to do to anybody here
is ever give you a freaking theory, right?
There's no theories or like armpits.
Every academic has them
and only under certain circumstances
would you ever want to smell them.
Yeah, another question, Rob.
Yeah, that's a great answer.
That is, with you mentioning the King James,
I want to go back a little bit further
and the early Gospels
considering as known as in fifth century,
then do you think it's possible with all the editions
and all the editing that's gone on in the Gospels
that known as could see through that,
could see through the disguise,
if there's a disguise,
could he see through that and penetrate with his language
so he could leave it within a text
potentially?
Yeah, that's a good question.
That's a good question.
What I would do is I would say,
okay, let's be careful here.
We're investigators and let's look at the language
is known as picking up on cult use of language
and that's not odd.
Does Galen use technical language,
technical vocabulary for his medicine?
Hell yeah.
Did he get it?
Does he develop it through Hellenistic doctors
like Herophilus?
Yeah, oh yeah, he does.
Can you track that language?
Yes, you can do the same thing with known as.
He's using highly, highly, highly technical terms,
just like Galen's bit from Nero,
when Nero's physician,
when he uses the word polypharmacon.
We don't have to guess.
We don't have to piece this together.
All we have to do is look at the language
and say what is that language preserving in the amber?
It's like the amber that's preserving that B
from 200 or 20 million years ago.
That was a little bit off.
Factor of 10.
Yeah, I don't know if that answers your question,
but I feel good about it.
Good.
What else do we have?
Yeah, we're going to shift across now to
I'm struggling with the pronunciation
because it's up.
Is it Diaz or Diaz in regards to Saturnalia?
Oh, Dispater.
Yeah, Dispater.
Yeah, it's a good example.
Is that a good example of the gender trinity?
Yeah, let's talk about God.
Let's talk about God.
Yeah, who is the Dispater, right?
Is that Plutus?
Is that Pluton, excuse me?
Is that the wealth?
Is that the king who sits on that throne?
And in the underworld?
Is that the guy who abducted Persephone?
Is that Zeus?
Yes.
People don't get this right away,
but you do if you study Roman religion, especially.
And you see the evolution of the God concept.
You know, it's Deus, right?
In Latin?
In Latin?
From Beowas in Mycenaean.
It's got that di-gamma in the Upsilon or in the U in Latin, right?
Is it originally U or V?
Anyway, so Deus, Dispater.
Yeah, is that Saturn and Cronus?
Yeah.
Is that Zeus, the one that we think of, that rules Olympus,
the one that rules the ether?
Yes.
That is the Zeus, right?
That is the Zeus.
Well, that Dispater is just a Zeus of the Kthon,
which is that it's like a different dimension.
Underworld.
Just translate it as underworld, right?
But it still has this worldly connotation.
It's like the underworld rules this place.
You don't realize that, right?
But the underworld rules this place.
Would you be surprised to wake up and find
that there was a separation of powers
and that there was one power that ruled this ether
and the other power that ruled...
Okay, well, that's what they're looking at.
That's the way that they're viewing the world.
And all of this can be made visible to you
if you can sit on the throne of Satan
and tell you use these images
while you search these images.
It unlocks.
We're not supposed to tell it, but it works.
Yeah.
Yeah, I don't know.
Any other questions?
I think we'll...
Is that about enough?
Yeah, that's okay with me.
But what I'd like to do is talk about contacting you
for people who like to contact.
I mean, we have so many brilliant comments.
I love the comments. I love going through them.
And I just think they're fantastic
what people are putting in.
And where we're at is we're kind of...
I'd like to communicate with people
and have people be able to communicate with each other
because YouTube, you've got...
It's limited. You can't even copy and paste.
Unless that's just me, maybe it is.
But I'd appreciate some suggestions.
I'd like to suggest maybe a dedicated Discord.
There is a Discord.
I think it's fantastic.
I'm on the Discord myself.
I think it's brilliant.
I like being on there.
I like the people on there.
It's fantastic.
But I don't know if people are comfortable
joining the Discord.
But definitely I'm not comfortable
putting any sort of details on the YouTube comments.
They won't encourage anybody else to.
So we've got a problem with how do we
get in touch with each other.
And I'm trying to solve that.
I'd appreciate some suggestions.
Maybe some platform we could all join together
and discuss things with each other.
I mean, that's the Discord essentially.
But why aren't people all joined?
And maybe there's a reason for that.
And what I'd like is to solve that.
In the meantime, would you be OK and comfortable
passing on messages through your email
at the Lady Babylon website?
Yes, at the Lady Babylon website.
If you want to get in touch.
And I promise everybody that sends me something.
I'll be more diligent.
I'll be as diligent as I can.
I'm up against teaching and getting people.
And this is the fun thing.
Getting people to actually be able to translate with me
and to be able to look at a text and say, oh my God,
I just translated that.
Those moments, it takes a while to get there.
It takes a lot of commitment and some students have it
and some students don't.
So I'm encouraging people who want to learn
ancient Greek to consider taking up the cost.
It depends if it would be useful to you.
But what I can promise you is that when I give you that ability
and you have it where you're sharp enough,
you can go on to intermediate reading.
Then you'll be able to see how that important it actually is.
I had a new student today who came in and he was looking
at logos, just the word logos.
And he is a religious, not historian,
but he has an undergraduate degree in religious history.
And he was surprised, orgasmically surprised,
genuinely surprised at just the word logos
and what it actually means.
And I can promise you from experience that those of you
sitting here do not know what logos means.
We could go into a discord and I could say,
okay, offer me your definitions of logos.
And then I could take you and I could show you
and you'd be shocked.
But it's rational and it makes sense.
And it allows you to see how that logos was used
when John says in Arche and her logos
that you know not from a Baptist perspective,
not from a Catholic's perspective,
not from a scholar's perspective,
but from the perspective of the people
who actually wrote the document,
that's invaluable.
That's invaluable.
That's the only way you're getting evidence.
If we're ever going to solve the crime
of the naked boy with Jesus,
we need hardcore evidence.
And I appreciate everybody who's been saying,
nice job, keep it up.
You people are encouraging me.
So I need that.
And I need to know that you're out there
and that you're following.
And that in following you're opened up
like people are saying and you're saying,
oh my God, what is this?
And now you're asking questions
because that's what it's all about.
And our eyes are open.
As much as we want to fear.
I love that.
We've got Lord Snappie
and he shaved his head
and we've got a testimonial.
I just thank you everybody
for taking part, participating, commenting.
It's just great to see it unfold.
I really enjoy watching this unfold.
I mean, I love the research.
I love watching this unfold.
And on behalf of Lord Snappie
who I was talking about earlier,
I very much must point out
that in this death morning
that we're entering
in this period of morning Adonis,
of morning Jehovah,
we're not just morning Jehovah.
We're morning his son and his son's bride
because our vision will show us
what contradicts the fairy tale
that reality that we've all grown up in.
It's gorgeous.
Saternian, satanic, Judaism, Christianity.
Yes, what are the satanic origins
of Judaism and Christianity?
And don't tell me
because your guy throws around snakes
and can do what the Egyptians do
with their hiccups.
Don't tell me that he is not a magician.
Completely following Saternian.
Look, he even sets up an oracle.
Moses sets up an oracle.
Most people, if you just tell them that,
they're going to be confused, right?
Moses sets up an oracle.
Yeah, in the wilderness,
in a tent with a bunch of smoking botanicals.
And you go in there to what
so that you can talk to the God.
They call it in the Saternian.
That's the place that's erected
for you to meet the God face to face.
This is gorgeous.
I hope that someday people find out
that Judaism is indeed
a Bronze Age satanic religion
and that that's nothing to be ashamed of.
That their roots go back
not to the Hebrew
and not to the Masoretic tradition.
That's way late.
They go back to the Saternian
oracular cult
that allows us to enter into a place of vision.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Maybe that was Moses
we were working with tonight in Jung.
I'll put Jung back in his cage.
Rob, do you have any final points?
Yeah, that was my last question.
Are you keeping Jung there?
Don't let him go. Don't let him go.
He always stays with me.
He always stays with me.
We will work on his seal
and presenting it directly to everyone
so that Jung like a meat puppet
can be used to talk to everyone here.
It's a necromancer's prerogative.
Yes, until next time.
Hail Satan and thank you.
Thank you everybody.
Thank you.
