Sunday morning, dark clouds rising Oh, there's no sunshine anywhere
Strong winds blowing, God give us wisdom To grasp the message in the air
Oh, if I could have one wish And know that it would come true
Had a wish that God would give us strength To know just what to do
Then we could tear down the fences That fences all new
Fences created by such evil men Then we could tear down the fences
That fences all new Maybe we could walk together again
Welcome back to Lady Babylon, Satanic Initiation.
Tonight, what I've got for you, we're going to go back to that party
where Jesus was partying with a room full of young boys.
We're going to see what he's telling them, we're going to see what he's doing
and we're going to watch him drug Judas. That's right, tonight we're going in deep
and we're going to take ourselves to a place we can't come back from on Lady Babylon.
So we're going back to that banquet. We're going back to that supper.
We're going back to that place that all the great masters have tried to depict.
We're going to go back and see that tonight only this time.
We're going to focus on that kid and we're going to focus on the poisoning.
Let's see what happens here. Chewie, we've got to cleanse this place.
We've got to get it up to par.
In order to do that, we're going to make a banquet here, so I want to bring in the queen of banquets.
Let's look at Golden Aphrodite, shall we?
Let's see what happens here.
I didn't know that Morningstar was a muse, did you?
Well, as the muse, they called her Urania or Urania. Fantastic.
Now that I feel the place is clean, I want to jump into the dirtiness that makes the dirtiness all that much more pleasurable.
We're going to go to a banquet, a place that's been set up.
In order to get there, I want to start you with one verse tonight, and I want to bring that in.
This is from notice's paraphrase of John.
This is from his paraphrase of John. Chewie, blow that up for me. Thanks.
I just want you to notice a couple of things right up top.
He's intoxicated. The kid is intoxicated, right?
Remember their ages, their mathetes, their students, their post-primary.
10 to 17, 18, 19, something in there.
And what's this kid going to get?
He's going to get from Jesus, look in the second line, an entheon arton.
And I just want you to realize that's the entheotic bread that Jesus prepares for Judas in order to get him to react to what Jesus has put in his head.
Isn't that amazing?
We're going to go see some prostitutes in antiquity.
We're going to go see these first century prostitutes.
I want you to keep in mind that entheotic bread, and I want us to go...
Let's look at the context of what's going on here.
Look, you know, he loved these kids.
He loved them all the way through their initiation, all the way to their telos, to their completion.
And when it became night, I'm translating, when the sun set below the horizon, there was a banquet that was centered around the love-making table.
I knew it.
I knew it.
I knew there was something.
Notice, are you saying that there was something going on that has to do?
Well, let's just keep bringing it.
It's going to get dirtier and dirtier.
Let's just see.
He's made this banquet.
He's got everything set up for his love fest.
And this is not agape that he uses.
This is an agape.
That kind of love.
That love that one feels in that special bond between an adult and their fostering child.
And I use those terms on purpose because according to knownness, Judas is Jesus' foster son.
Yeah.
You see, all these boys that Jesus has been picking up,
they're looking to him.
Yeah.
You see what's going on?
You see what's going on?
Bring up the next verse, Chewie.
Let's keep going.
We've got to just keep right in there.
Okay, so this is from the Bible, right?
You'll see the verse on the right.
And so the students, they were all amazed.
If you realize now that Jesus' students were amazed quite easily on a regular basis,
you can remember their ages, right?
Remember their ages.
And you say, well, no wonder.
I always thought he was treating the apostles like they were stupid.
Yeah.
No, he was treating them like they were children, which they were.
We're about to see one of them sit on his lap.
How old is a kid who, while they're sitting on your lap, reaches up to where your breasts are?
What is that?
Maybe nine?
Something like that.
That's the party that we're at, people, right?
I know we've been here before, but I'm going to add the drugs.
Are you ready?
Are you ready?
Here we go.
Let's go to the next one.
Yeah.
Did we get all of that one?
Yeah.
Oh, I wanted you to see.
So, you know, they're all amazed.
Anyway, look at that second line, that second to last word, Tecna.
How is he addressing his followers?
How is he addressing him?
You can take it down.
He's addressing them as children.
It would be very odd for a grown man to keep addressing a group of grown men with the word children,
my little sheepies, over and over and over.
You would think we would have picked that up many years ago.
Right.
It's only the naked kid that was with Jesus when he was arrested that makes us start to
think about kids anyway.
Okay, let's get, let's go to the next one, please.
Here we are.
Here's another one.
This is Matthew 8.6.
So, yeah, he's like whoever scandalizes this is that Jesus.
Whoever scandalizes one of my little itty bitty buddies.
Take it down.
That's what that first line says in Greek.
Right.
Whoever scandalizes one of my itty bitty micro buddies.
I got my micro buddies here.
My name's Jesus.
I like my little boys.
That's what that says.
Are you surprised?
Realize, please, if you have enough until this point, I hate to blow it.
I'm going to tell you their prostitutes, their prostitutes, the boys are prostitutes.
Okay.
Are you ready to prove this to me?
Prove it.
Bring on the evidence.
Let's keep going.
Oh, here we go.
Yeah.
No, we're done with that one.
Keep going.
Here it is.
Oh, look, look.
So Peter Tom starts to talk to me.
He says, look, you know, he says, look, Jesus, we've left behind everything in
order to join ourselves to you.
We've left behind families.
We've left behind homes.
We have left that behind.
What?
These guys are attached to Jesus.
Give me the definition, the next definition right up there.
What does it mean to occaluth or something?
Right?
What does it mean?
It means to be joined to it as if you have a duty or an obligation to serve it.
They use it of soldiers and slaves.
Take it down.
Soldiers and slaves.
Uh-huh.
These are Jesus's boys and God help the person who scandalizes, who captures, who traps those
boys.
What I have taught you says, Jesus, I want you to pass on boys.
Yeah.
Peter, you know what I'm talking about, Peter?
Okay.
He's about to pull it out.
He's about to pull out his Cosby.
Are you ready?
Let's go to the next one.
Here we are.
Are you ready?
So this is Matthew.
So Peter was, you know, he was sitting there.
Oh, outside of the gate.
Yeah.
Outside of the gate.
What's he doing?
Sorry.
The courtyard.
He's in the alley now.
He's in the alley.
He's in the courtyard.
And he's, what is he doing?
Yeah.
He's a little Pideske comes up to him and she says, hey, hey, you're, you're one of those.
You're one of those who's with Jesus of Nazareth.
Now what is a Pideske?
Please tell me Jesus is sitting.
I mean, Peter is sitting there in the courtyard while Jesus is getting hammered.
Right.
Nervously.
And Pideske walks up to him and says, Hey, you're with Jesus.
What is a Pideske?
It's the next definition.
Yep.
No, not that one.
There we go.
Yes.
Perfect.
Sorry.
My eyes.
I need to put on my glasses.
I'm sorry.
I apologize.
Bring me that up.
Thanks for putting up with everything.
Look, young girl or maiden.
What's a, we don't use term maiden anymore.
Right.
I don't.
Um, young female slave.
Bond maid.
Right.
These people are not there.
Um, you know, just working.
This isn't just their job.
What else is she?
Look at number.
Look at number two.
Prostitute.
Prostitute.
Yes.
A Pideske is a young girl prostitute.
Isn't that nice?
Now they don't always have to be involved in sex.
Right.
They don't.
But we know the temples and we know what the Pideske does there.
And it's what you and I would call prostitution.
And one of these prostitutes recognizes him.
Young one, a girl, a young girl.
She's like, I know, I know that guy.
He's with Jesus in the gang.
You know what she did?
She mentioned his pimp.
She mentioned his pimp.
She's with that pimp Jesus.
Right.
This kid, this kid, he's not, look, they got his, they got his pimp in there.
Right.
It's Pideske.
This is a, this is just the happenstance.
This is just coincidence.
Let's see what, what Peter does.
And we're going to go through these verses right, right quick.
Right.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
No.
So he denied it.
And he said, no, I have no idea what you're talking about.
Next one.
And then yeah.
So now he comes out of the courtyard.
And when he does an alley, another Pideske different one.
Recognizes him.
She sees him and she says to the people there, she says, this guy is one of those kids that
belongs to Jesus, one of those of Jesus, one of those of Jesus.
You mean Jesus owns these guys.
Don't you realize that that kid that he was arrested with in the public park at four a
minute.
That kid was a coluthoing him.
He was serving.
He was serving.
Let's go to the next one.
It gets darker, but I want to see Judas get drug.
I really do.
I really do.
Yeah.
So he goes a little bit away and those, those standing off at a distance, a distance, they
come up and they say, Hey, um, you are from these guys.
Um, and we know it because from Jesus, because your Lalia gives you away, bro.
Your Lalia gives you away.
What is your Lalia?
What is your Lalia?
It's the way that you converse.
It's the way that you hold yourself.
Why you converse.
You know, you get to know somebody's Lalia and this kid, Peter, his Lalia is up around
Galilee.
That's where he's coming from.
Yeah.
Yeah.
What does Peter do in response?
Throw it up there.
What does Peter do?
Peter starts kind of the Matizan.
He starts cursing.
Right.
How do you Lalia?
Like one of those prostitutes around Nazareth.
Um, how do you, how do you, how do you carry yourself?
What is your comportment?
Um, how do you talk?
You do exactly what Peter does.
You start cursing and this is the kind of cursing that's go, um, go to hell type of cursing
or may die, may shark each mama, that kind of thing.
Right.
Um, so they know they're like, yeah, he's, you know, he's one of them.
So that's two prostitutes.
Why do you think that two underage prostitutes recognize Peter, the rock and first pope of
the great and mighty Christian church?
Don't worry.
We know how to drug these kids.
Right.
Jesus knows.
Let's get to them.
Right.
Sure.
This is going to be real climactic here because they, they want to see them.
They want to see them.
And I appreciate you guys being thanks for everyone for coming tonight.
That's been, I just love that.
Um, it's an honor.
You honor me with your time.
So let me make it worth your time and give you some goodies.
Okay.
Are you ready?
Yeah.
So before the feast, you know, the Passover, you know, um, Jesus knew that his time was
up.
So, um, yeah, he, he finished loving.
He loved them all the way to his end, his boys.
And next one, please.
And what happens?
Um, so there's this banquet made, you know, and you see the next word diabolum and you're
like, devil, what is, what is the devil going to do?
Right.
I'm going to show you a possession.
You know what necromancers do with their drugs?
They cause possession and Jesus Christ does the same with Judas.
Are you ready?
Let's go to the next source.
We're going to sneak up on this one.
You thought Jesus was passive.
Nope.
No, very clever sociopath.
This guy.
Yeah.
So, okay.
So the bank was there and all our kids are there.
Remember, there's, there's their children or, you know, you know, teenagers, right?
Teenagers.
Teenagers.
Okay.
Room 14.
There's a couple who were 10 to 12-ish.
Yeah.
Okay.
One of them sitting on Jesus' lap.
That's the one he loved.
He loved.
Come on, man.
Come on.
Don't do that.
It's the children.
You make it.
You make it so dirty.
You make it so dirty for a grown man to be in a room full of children with one of them
sitting on his lap.
It's not like he's done anything wrong.
Right?
Let's see him do something wrong, Chewie.
Give me, give me, give me that same.
I think it's the same one.
It's the same one.
Oh, beautiful.
Yeah.
What does he do?
He takes off his clothes.
Oh, Jesus Christ.
Why do you do this?
Why do you do it, Jesus?
You make it so easy.
People, he's in a room, an upper room.
Remember, they had to, they had to go through some stuff to get this place kind of out of
the way because Jesus knew his time was up.
Right?
He felt the heat, man.
They were going to come and get him.
He knew it.
Right?
He wasn't surprised.
Yeah.
Fantastic.
Let's see what he does with, with the boys here.
Okay.
So he's naked and that's from the Bible people.
It's from the Bible.
It's the gospel of John.
He's naked.
He takes off his clothes and what, what does he do?
He picks up a towel and he wraps it around himself.
Okay.
Fantastic.
Let's keep going.
I know people that we've looked at some of this before, but I need to set up the poisoning.
Right?
The drugging that Jesus did.
Yeah.
And so he pours that water into the vase.
I mean, into the basin.
It's like a catch basin.
Yeah.
And then he began to watch, wash the feet of the students.
Right?
If anybody in here.
Who has students ever ended up naked and washing their feet.
They'd be thrown to prison.
Right?
This is, this is the big event that we're making paintings about people.
This is the very last one of these banquets that we're going to have.
Right?
Cause things catch up with Jesus.
There's a reason the crowds yelling.
You know, they're yelling.
Okay.
Let's go to the next one, please.
Yeah.
And here we are.
So it comes to Simon Peter.
He's going to wash his feet.
Right?
And Peter says, don't wash my feet.
Here's the next one.
Just don't wash my feet.
Jesus answers him back.
And he says, he says, look, the thing that I'm doing, you don't understand it now.
Yeah.
But you'll know later.
And when you do, now this is, that's the end of the verse.
But you know, when he does figure out.
He's going to be able to groom the next generation.
Yeah.
The prostitution continues.
Yeah.
You mean Christianity was a prostitution?
Yeah.
Yep.
Yep.
And you wondered, you know, I was sitting with the, I was sitting with the watchers the other
day and we were talking about why people didn't get it.
Why people didn't see it.
I said, didn't we tell him that he was always hanging around with prostitutes?
Well, yeah.
Was that whole forgiveness thing?
Right?
Was that all you spout that stuff anytime you want?
She's still going to end up kissing Judas.
Right?
Okay.
Okay.
Let's go back to the text to see what it says.
Right?
Okay.
Okay.
Let's go back to the text to see what it says.
Right?
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Let's go back to the text to see what it says.
We're almost to the poisoning people.
Thanks for hanging in there with me for so long.
We're going to have Neil in a little bit, but I got a few more texts to give you.
Yeah.
So he washes his feet.
He washes their feet, all their feet have been washed.
And so he puts back his clothes.
He puts on his clothes again and he, you know, reclines and he says to them, are you ready?
By the way, he was wiping them off with the thing that he put around his flanks.
That thing is not covering his glory.
I am about to show you the glory of Jesus.
Hallelujah.
You mean you have the only attestation of Jesus's manpower?
You write about that.
You write about that.
I have the only photo.
I have the only photo.
I am the only paparazzi who was able to get that one photo, that one photo of Jesus's glory.
And I'm going to show it to you.
Are you ready?
It's text from antiquity.
Don't get so worked up.
It's just a text.
Yes.
Let's go back.
So he says, after he's gone through all of this, washed their feet, made us all very uncomfortable.
Right?
Nobody here has washed the feet naked of a bunch of boys.
Have you?
I don't know.
Do you have a youth thing that does this?
I don't know.
But if you do, you're probably worried about getting caught, which is a good thing.
He's supposed to discourage that.
Right?
Jesus rode that wave.
Gangsta G was not going to let that stop him from taking care of his boys.
Now let's go to the next text.
I love it.
I love it.
What happens here?
Yeah.
So he says, look, I'm not going to be here for long and you're going to come looking for me.
Right?
And like I was saying to those Jews, wait, what?
You know, this is the Bible, people.
John 1333, 1333.
Jesus Christ says, like the other day when I was telling those Jews, you can't follow me
where I'm going.
Wait a minute.
Wait a minute.
Two possibilities.
Referring to somebody else's ethnicity to distinguish from your own or from your audience's ethnicity.
Yeah.
Which is more likely probably the kids who aren't Jews.
Yeah.
Otherwise it makes him sound like he's a little stupid.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Just a little note.
I just want you to see that little bump in the text.
Like, you know, a lot of this kind of stuff can happen through scribal error.
Right?
A lot of that kind of stuff can happen.
So I'm not going to make a big deal about the identity thing.
Let's go.
Look at this.
And so, you know, there was this kid lying back, right?
Right?
One of his students lying back.
Look at that second line.
That's on the lap.
On the lap of Jesus.
And he was the one that Jesus loved.
He was the one that Jesus loved.
He's sitting on Jesus's lap.
And remember, as Jesus is washing, and he's, oh, we're going to see this.
You're going to freak when you see it.
Go ahead.
Next one.
Yep.
And what did he do?
This kid lay back.
He just put his head back where Jesus is at the level of Jesus's breasts.
Right?
It's the level of his breasts.
So again, that's how tall the kid is.
That's leaning on him.
And he says, who is it?
Because Jesus has been saying, one of you boys is going to betray me.
One of my little sheepkins is going to betray me.
Right?
Almost like he's setting it up.
You ever feel like he was maybe setting it up?
There's lots of...
Watch what happens here.
Next text.
Look at this.
And whoops.
And so, take it down for a second.
So what does Jesus do?
He says, I'll show you who it is.
The one that I give this to that takes it, they're the one.
This is going to betray me.
Yeah.
And he takes a little morsel and he baptizes it.
He does what?
He baptizes it with just a couple of little drops of the purple.
And he gives it to him.
And when he gives it to him, when he gives them the Entheon Arton, when he gives him
the bread infused with the burning purple, he goes nuts.
He goes nuts.
Jesus pushes him, pushes him right off the edge.
Right?
He says, watch this.
When he had those kids' feet washed, do you know what he said to them?
Do you know what I've done to you?
Yeah.
He's naked.
He's got that bull catching that water, washing those feet, looking right down at his glory.
And you don't think his glory was there?
Bring on the glory of Jesus.
We've got to see the glory of Jesus.
Where is it?
Okay, wait.
We've got to read this right after he takes that infused bread.
What happens?
Satan jumps into him.
Yeah.
And Jesus says, okay, go do it.
Take it down.
Take it down.
Take it down.
What is he going to do?
That little program kid, that poor guy.
He didn't have a chance coming, Bill.
That's Bill Cosby, Jesus Christ.
Love it.
Love it, Jesus.
Love your work.
Such a masterful manipulation.
It was brilliant.
Let's see.
Let's see what Jonas thinks.
Next passage, please.
Next passage.
Yep.
Well, I think that was it.
Yeah.
And so taking it, you know, it just says another one.
He went out and it was nighttime.
And yeah, here's what Jonas, here's how Jonas translates this.
Look, at about evening, he made a banquet, a banquet of this love gathering.
And this third line from the bottom says, and Jesus performed.
He constructed an elaborate work.
It was woven together.
What was it?
By the power, bottom line, by the power of a wrestling demon.
He used a barb.
He used the barb of greed.
What?
He used the barb of greed.
To what?
He used the barb of greed.
To an oistres Santos.
To what?
Do you see the oistress in there?
Everybody who's been there with me for the whole time.
Do you see the oistress?
That's the mania.
He is making him enter a Bacchic frenzy.
A Bacchic frenzy.
Bring up the definition for, yep, look at this.
Just so, in case you don't believe me, follow the purple, right?
An oistreo, to goad to madness.
And where do you see it?
Euripides Bacchai.
Look at the Greek in that second line.
What does it say?
It says having been goaded to that madness by love, right?
Goading the heart.
Goading the heart.
That's what Jesus is doing.
He's goading the heart of Judas.
Yeah.
Oh God.
God, he's doing it.
Isn't that genius?
That's genius.
That's why Nona says, this is a brilliant plan.
This is a brilliant plan.
This man is maniacal, but he's a genius.
And he's currently in a room full of boys that he just got naked in front of.
Okay, bring us that source one more time.
We're almost there, Neil.
We're almost there.
Yeah.
Is that the second one?
Yeah.
Okay.
And so this is just more of that same text.
So he created this world.
Look at that second line.
Look at that second line.
So he made this banquet.
This is the rewriting of John.
And he, oh, what does that third line say?
Here it is.
Take it.
Take it down.
I'm sorry.
Take it down.
Is everybody ready?
Drum roll, please.
Ladies and gentlemen, I am proud to present to you for the first time in human history,
the unveiling of the genitalia of Jesus Christ.
Let's see it.
Look at the third line.
Look at the third line.
He took off his clothes.
They covered his glorious meat.
His glorious meat.
Look at the word.
His meat, his flesh is shining.
It is resplendent.
Resplendent like what?
Resplendent with strength.
Go ahead.
Go ahead.
No, take that one down.
That's his flesh.
He showed his flesh.
You have to give it to Jesus for showing his flesh.
Now you understand why all the prostitutes.
Now you understand why Mary has the sex drugs.
Now you understand why they call the semen of Jesus the love of God.
You are sitting there and you are not a Christian unless you are abusing children.
The only true Christian today are those creepy priests.
They're the only ones.
Those creepy youth pastors, they're the only ones.
All the rapist Baptists that you can find.
They're the real Christians.
Now, this is a religion that is founded by a pedophile perpetuating a rape ritual.
And I'm not the one saying it.
No, this is.
I didn't make this up.
All I'm doing is showing you tags.
I showed you the intheotic bread.
Let's see the next one.
I just want you to see people, the purple.
I wanted you to see the purple.
Yeah, I think that maybe go back to that one.
Yeah, yeah.
Oh, and by the way, this one describes after he shows his flesh, right?
What does he do?
He makes a kind of a false meat train.
He makes a false ladies girdle, you know, around his pub region.
Yeah.
And he ties it off good with a strong knot kind of thing.
Yeah.
And it's kind of in a fashion that's coming out of the tombs.
Yeah.
This lintian thing that he's using.
But what is it?
What is it says?
No, he says it's that cure.
It's the cure of those ecmodic feet.
It's the cure of the ecmodic feet.
Yeah.
You remember that stuff that he's putting from the washing from the kids?
Yeah.
When you talk about purifications and mystery, you have to remember that the first mystery
queen, Lady Babylon herself, the medwa, the queen of caucus, you got to remember that
those rituals have to do with the creation of fluids that can be used within the religion,
within the mystery, right?
It's Lady Babylon's cup of her own sexual juices that is the right.
When they bathed Medea, they collected the water.
She didn't have a bath.
They washed her and collected the off-runnings and distributed those as medicine.
Yeah.
You mean Medea was so jacked with so many drugs, even coming out of her colpus, when she takes
care of Jason people, you know where she gets the drugs that make Jason invulnerable to fire
and to pain?
She gets them out of her vagina.
It's the medicine of the time.
If you've got a problem with the sorcery, then I don't care.
But Jesus is in the midst of that.
He's in the midst of it with these kids.
Let's go to the next text.
We're almost done.
Oh, yes.
We've got a wrap.
Look, but I want to give you the goodies that were here.
Just so you can see, what is he doing?
What is Jesus doing at this point?
This isn't notice his summation or paraphrasing of John, right?
He says he pours out that water, that Hupakulpion water, the water that comes from below the
lap, the water that comes from below the lap, right?
Wait a minute.
Are we getting Vio?
Are we getting Vox Orphaca?
Yeah.
Guess what?
We're about to see it with the messengers as Jesus describes why he drug Judas.
Just notice here that, yeah, he's washing their feet again, dirty guy.
I just want him to see the water that comes with the lap.
And I want you to notice that second and third word.
Yeah.
Okay.
Let's keep going.
We need to get on.
Yeah.
I'm going to skip that one too.
But I want you to notice at the bottom, oyster thin taste.
This is more of John's gospel talking about other people that entered an ecstatic phase.
And these people were the ones that were doing it because they were accepting the Christ at
the well in Samaria.
When the kid apostles are all like, why is he talking to that woman?
Yeah.
Right.
Water of life stuff.
It's driving them crazy.
It's typical cult stuff, people.
You don't see this because we've seen only the fairy tale.
Right?
You expect the church to give you the historical reality?
No.
They're going to convey whatever gives to you.
You know, any religion is going to do it.
Orthodox Judaism is, that's all Orthodox Judaism is, is an attempt at propaganda to control.
That's all Orthodox anything is.
Anything Orthodox is an attempt to set parameters about what is right teaching.
Orthodox.
Right?
So that's all that they do.
That's why you have Bible studies.
Right?
It's why you have Bible.
Haven't you ever wondered why classes study just ancient literature except for the Bible?
And then you have an entire department where people study just the Bible out of its context.
It's because they want to control the propaganda.
That's Orthodox right there.
I don't care if you're one of the Taliban.
You're controlling it when you threaten girls by saying, I'm going to throw acid in your face.
That's all you're doing.
That's all you're doing.
Let's go.
Love it.
Love the exposure.
Get it.
Get the, get the next one up.
Okay.
So Jesus is young.
What's going on here?
Oh yeah.
He says it with the hand.
So he says in the hand that I'm, you know, I'm going to give the one who's going to betray me with this thing that I've baptized that I've soaked.
What have you soaked it in Jesus in these little drops in these little drops, these little drops that are infused, these little drops that are infused with that wine dark or wine faced.
Literally with that purple, those purple drops.
Yeah.
Now again, this is Vox Orfica.
Go back.
I need to see that again.
Please.
This is Vox Orfica.
Right.
The one that I'm giving it to.
Right.
I'm giving these infused with the purple and this one is going to do exactly what I set up for him to do.
Right.
This is masterful manipulation.
It's brilliant.
Right.
He's going to do it himself.
Go to the next one.
I think we skipped one that we're going to do.
But I think.
Hmm.
Okay.
Go down to the fourth line.
I met a Thesculon Arton.
Right.
And after it now, this is where the diabolical part gives in.
Right.
So immediately, immediately upon giving him that divine bread.
Remember, he says Thesculon.
It's like it's inspired.
The bread of inspiration.
The stuff will knock you down.
Right.
You'd be inspired.
So what does it say he does with it?
It says after he gave him that that was sprinkled.
That was that he had sprinkled in.
What did he sprinkle into it?
He sprinkled in Pothon Olbu.
The desire for ecstasy.
The desire for bliss.
What Jesus put in that bread and gave to that kid, he says, will cause him to have a desire,
a drive, a passion for bliss.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Kind of creepy.
You know, you might expect that from Bill Cosby.
Right.
I'm going to take him to the zone.
I'm going to take him to the, he's giving it to him.
And immediately the kid gets up.
And was that the, no.
Yep.
And.
Oh, and he says, what happens?
He gives him that bread, right?
That, that, that bread of power.
And what happens to him?
He become that bread.
It becomes the messenger, the messenger of this overwhelming greed.
And with this, you know, after administration of this thing with its desire for bliss,
pompos, pompos, diamond, the diamond.
And that's the devil that he's talking about.
And he says, sit on us.
That's the devil.
The devil enters completely into him.
Pompos alitrosunis, a messenger or a carrier, a carrier of sin, a carrier of sin.
Jesus, could you explain that to me one more time?
Yeah.
You give him the drug and the devil enters into them.
Voila.
Possession.
Yeah.
Haven't you been paying attention?
He's been talking to the devil the whole time, right?
He's like, goodbye, man.
Right?
Now he's using it.
And now you know why the religious Jews that are there say, this dude is casting out demons
by the power of Beelzebub.
Yeah.
Right.
That's the devil.
Right?
That's the devil's power.
He's the one who initiates that.
This is his kingdom.
Right?
Jesus knows that.
He's just using the physics and he's using it with his boys.
If you want to enter the kingdom of heaven, you've got to become a boy.
Go to the last example.
I just want to finish up with this and then we'll call, we'll call Gnostic and form it
up and see.
He's got some great stuff.
I'm going to throw the floor to him.
I just underline a couple of things here.
I just want you to see.
This is from Gnostic's Dionysiaca and I just want you to see that it's describing a group
of women who have put upon their breasts these iron bowls and these bowls are used in the
creation of drugs.
They preserve the divine milk of these women who were suited in armor.
They're suited in armor over their breasts and their breasts are called breasts that
bring the mystic initiation.
Isn't that nice?
Do you know what we want?
We don't want that drug from Jesus.
We don't want that bread that's going to make us flip out and do exactly what he's programmed
us to do.
We don't want that.
We don't want that.
We want that milk.
We want that milk.
Would you be surprised if you found out it had the purple?
You may.
You may.
Now, before we bring in Neil, I just want to say to all the fundamentalist religions
in the West, they're in the East now too, in the East and West, to all the fundamentalist
religions, you who are people of the book, particularly, you people of the book.
Your book is the product of a mystery rite that involves the rape of children from Moses
to Jesus.
We're all into the venom.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Tonight, we want to call in.
We want to call in the Gnostic Informant.
Is the Gnostic Informant here?
Yes.
Yes.
I'm going to shut up for a minute.
If you would just take over and give us what you've got, Neil, I'm giving you the floor.
Thanks for coming tonight.
Thank you.
I wanted to talk about the purple that you mentioned.
Is there a question is, if this is what Jesus was doing, did this tradition continue at
all?
Where do we have evidence of it?
I have a text about Marcus Magis, second century.
This is early.
This is the first.
What was to say, second generations of Christians after the first generation of the first century
Christians?
All right.
I got a screen down there.
I'm sharing.
There it is.
This is about Marcus Magis.
He's the student of Valentinas, and Valentinas claims to be a student of John.
That's the tradition.
That's what all the historians, like Eusebius, and all of them are saying about the line
of how close are they to Jesus?
He's three away.
Jesus, John, Valentinas, and Marcus Magis.
So Marcus Magis is over in Rome.
He's very high up.
He'd be considered a cardinal today.
It's extremely popular, and I just want to make one more thing clear before I read this.
He was never in his lifetime charged with heresy.
He was extremely popular during his lifetime.
It's not until a century later, century and a half later, where an orthodoxy begins to
form.
And like Dr. Amon was saying, orthodoxies come along and they hijack these wild movements
and they sort of, they corporatize them basically.
So he becomes a heretic way later when it becomes convenient.
That's very important to know that.
So the things he's doing here are considered normal Christian practice for the church at
Rome.
Okay?
Vatican, basically.
So it says, Another among them, Marcus, in adept in sorcery, carrying on operations,
partly by sleight of hand and partly by demons, deceive many from time to time.
This heretic alleged, remember this is written by a guy way later, alleged that there resided
in him the mightiest power from invisible and unnameable places.
Very often taking the cup as it offering up the Eucharistic prayer and prolonging to a
great length than usual word of invocation, he would cause the appearance of a purple and
sometimes red mixture so that his dupes imagine that a certain grace descended on the communicated
to the potion of a blood red potency.
The nave, however, at the time succeeded in escaping detection from many, but now being
convicted of the imposter, he will be forced to desist from it for infusing secretly into
the mixture some drug that possess the power of imparting such a color.
The purple as alluded above, uttering for a considerable time, nonsensical expressions.
We all know what this is.
This is mania, this is a reverie.
He was in the habit of waiting in expectation that the drug obtaining a supply of moisture
might be dissolved and being intermingled with the potion that might impart its color
to it.
The drugs, however, that possess the quality of furnishing this effect we have previously
mentioned in the book on magicians.
So basically he's talking about this Marcus Magisk character is drugging people during
the Eucharist.
And what would happen was if you continue to read the next page, he basically says like
these people would go into Bacchic frenzies, they would go into these states of euphoria
and psychedelia, psychedelia, and then he would tell them that's the spirit of God who
descended on you.
That's the Holy Spirit.
That's Jesus.
And there's guys snitching on him as if he's a heretic, but if this guy, if it wasn't in
the cards to make this guy a heretic, if the political situation didn't present itself
and this guy was part of the orthodoxy, you'd never know this text.
You would never know this practice ever existed.
That makes sense.
Now, go ahead.
Do you have something to say?
Yeah.
No, no, no.
That's an excellent, excellent point.
There's there for some reason.
He's not just making it up and, you know, it matches the traditions that we have with
it.
It's exactly what you would expect.
So beautiful evidence.
Love it.
Now, real quick, I just want to point something out.
So keep that in mind when you're looking at John 13.
Like you know, some people will say, this is not this isn't historical.
This is this is legend.
And it's like, OK, why is the author saying that Jesus had to dip the bread in the dish
and give it to Judas in order for Satan to enter him?
What is the author even trying to say there?
To me, it's a it's it's tomato tomato.
It doesn't even make a difference because whether it's attributing this to Jesus or if
it actually happened, it's like, well, what's going on here?
Are you as are they showing you?
This is like some sort of tradition to get people in the state.
And one more thing I want to show.
This is from this is also this is from John, John 19, same author, same text.
And when he's on the he's on the cross, right, he says, I'm thirsty and they give him a sponge
of vinegar on the stock of a Hissa plant, right?
And real quick before I show you what a Hissa plant is down here is a weird thing that happens
when they see when he sees his mother.
Where is it?
It's down here.
Oh, right here.
He sees his mother and then he says to his mother, oh, by the way, this is the disciple
who my beloved disciple, the one that sits on Jesus' shoulder.
And he says, woman, here is your new son.
Wait a minute.
Your new son.
What is you married?
Is this your is this a his new mother-in-law because you're married to this child?
What's going on here?
That's a weird thing to happen.
How would your beloved disciple have this become your mother, your mother's son?
Weird.
Just say it.
Now, I want to show you last thing.
I want to show you what a Hissa plant looks like because this ties it all together.
This is the Hissa plant, purple, of course.
It's always purple.
All the drugs are always purple.
You ever notice that?
Why?
I have.
I have.
Even the text that I brought from Marcus Magis, he says it was a purple substance.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Something's going on with that.
Yeah.
You say the acacia thorn is also, isn't that a purple, produces a purple acacia and mimosa
hostila's barks.
When you blend it up, so it looks like a bark, but then when you blend it up and get it to
a fine powder and add a little bit of water, completely turns purple.
Dark red, blood red, purple, like the color behind me turns into that.
Nice.
Nice.
Okay.
Neil, tell me, having brought in that source, what do you think the broader world out there
will think?
We're beginning to see the kind of the stripped of all it's Disneyland.
We're seeing Jesus with prostitutes.
We're seeing him take, use these kids.
How do we take this message to the world?
How do we, do we do it with just this scholarly approach?
What are we doing here?
Are we, you know, we have an audience and the audience is engaging.
What do you think?
I'm just, you know, what's your vision?
Keep bringing the sources out.
Keep bringing the sources out.
I was just talking to someone before this about Jeremiah, the book of Jeremiah.
The people just assume this book was written in 650 BC.
Okay.
Interesting.
So that's, that's the case, it should be cited, it should be passed around, it should
have spread somewhere by the, by the time they get to the third century BC, this text
should be well known, right?
No.
I'm like, okay, well, can we, can we get a citation of this text?
Can we get it?
Can we get something?
I just want to see something.
Because I'll believe you.
Being biased against this text being dated to this time.
And they'll say, well, Jeremiah, it takes place in the time of King Hezekiah and the
blah, blah, blah.
Okay.
So did Daniel?
Daniel lived in the time of Belshazzar, but we figured out that Daniel has clear knowledge
of what happens in the Hellenistic world.
So we know Daniel's a later text being backdated at, in fact, a lot of people point out that
prophecy is a genre.
It's like the sibling texts, they're backdated to show what happened.
So why wouldn't you say the same thing for Jeremiah?
And I just funny.
And then he says, and then someone else said, um, I'm talking to someone else about it too.
And this person points out that there's a, a rock that somebody found under the city
of David and on the rock was a name of somebody.
The name was like Yerukim, son of somebody.
That's all it says on the, on the rock.
Can't date it.
It's not carbon-datable, right?
So you just got to look at the, the, the inscription and it just looks like some regular Hebrew
from any time and it has this person's name on it.
Well, it turns out that in the book of Zechariah, this is going to blow your mind.
You're going to, you're going to be like, what, this is laughable.
In the book of Zechariah, somewhere in this book, it mentions a guy with that same name.
So they took, they said, since Zechariah is dated to 650, that this rock must be from
650 because a guy's name is on it.
That with the same name that's in Zechariah, standard of like, of like the, the, the historical
method and scientific met where, where, when we get the Bible studies that all goes out
the window, like you mentioned, the classes, six department is a whole different world.
You're going to get to try to get a PhD in classics, whether you're going to have to
know Greek and have to know languages for it to get a PhD in like some Bible studies,
you get a master divinity, which is nothing master divinity is laughable.
And then you get, you take that master divinity and you just give like a PhD in some random
studying Daniel or something.
It's a way easier PhD is what I'm saying.
I'm not saying it ain't easy.
I haven't done it.
So I, who am I to talk, but I'm just saying it's a different world than classics.
And I don't think anyone would disagree, I don't think anyone would disagree on that.
When you, now you know, my classes have the same reaction to Bible scholars, right?
Cause it's not really real, right?
When you can date something like that from a absurdity, I mean, okay, if we did that with
the rest of history, we would be so confused and you could say anything you want, you make
any argument you wanted, you know, no, there's a standard Niels pointing out and that's standard
is the text.
We have that thing preserved.
Do you think archeologists make stuff up?
They're trying to figure out from the dirt, they're forgetting that evidence there.
We have that with classics too.
We have that evidence.
So it's all about handling that evidence people.
And you've seen them, we showed you, they're using the drugs, they're in these sex rights,
the Christians are doing it, Jesus is doing it, what, you know, how many naked boys am
I going to have to find associated with Jesus before somebody says, huh, maybe, you know,
maybe this guy's right, you know, we should go back and look at it.
Neil, how many years, give me a number one between one and 10, how many years before
what you and I are doing is going to actually catch up to the academics where they're going
to say, oh, wait a minute.
It's a good question.
I was talking about Derek, I was talking with Derek about that.
And I think it's going to be, it's only a matter of time before they're going to have
to, they're going to have to engage with this stuff.
The more, the more people that come up and say the same thing, like Russell Gamerkin,
from a whole different point of reference is coming in the same conclusion as you and
me and a few others.
So eventually you don't you want to prove us wrong?
If you, like everything you're, everything that you guys are to have consensus, consensus
on, if it's so rock solid, if it's so well slam dunk, no, but we know these dates now,
then shouldn't you be able to just lay something out for me that I can't defend, right?
So I think it's a man, I think it'll be short couple of years, two, three years.
Good.
I hope you're right, man.
I hope you're right.
And I hope this type of the new museum with this new technology, I hope it catapults things
forward.
Thank you.
Thank you to YouTube for let, you know, letting people do this.
Did you know that to get a master divinity, you have to sign a statement of faith?
Did you know this?
Is that it?
There's SBL seminarians.
They have to sign a statement of faith.
Can I pull it up?
Can I pull it up and show people what it says?
Of course.
Go ahead.
Go ahead.
Fine.
All right.
Because think about this.
Why, why is this there?
Okay.
So somebody tried to tell me it's not that big of a deal, deal, could stop it.
They're just doing it because, you know, whatever, whatever.
Well, then why are they doing it?
Like you're telling me that I have to sign on a piece of paper and lie?
So if I don't plan on being faithful, then I'm going to lie.
I'm going to sign something and lie to you.
And if I do want to be faithful, then I'm signing something to say that I'm going to
lie to other people because if I find something that goes against my beliefs, then I have
to say it.
I don't believe it.
So why, why, why should anyone take anything that SBL says seriously?
Look at this.
Discussing faith and reason.
Um, oh, I think this is like some sort of like, oh, okay.
So this is them.
This is an art.
This is from the SBL site saying that, uh, basically saying, because they're getting
a bunch of complaints from people saying, you guys are signing statements of faith.
What the fuck?
Right?
So here's them saying like, no, we don't, does it mean anything?
No, it's not a big deal.
Look, all these people sign these things saying they, they take their work serious.
Okay.
Big shit.
Oh shit, dude.
Sorry, but like that shit is just not cutting it for me.
Like, I'm sorry.
Why is it there?
I'm just saying, am I, am I being, am I being crazy for asking why that's there?
No, no, no, no.
I think, do you think it's maybe this kind of similar to the apostles creed?
I mean, they came up with that pretty early too.
Like it's the, what is that stuff for when you make a mantra that everybody has to follow?
That's just control.
Isn't it?
It is like you're, you're putting someone in the position.
No matter what they're going to, you're saying, you need to be a liar.
Now think, well, before you say I'm being like unfair here, let's run, run this down.
You're a Christian.
Okay.
You're a Christian.
You get your master divinity.
You go to, you sign your, your statement of faith.
Now you're, you're basically signing on a piece of paper that if I find evidence that goes
against my faith, I have to reject it.
You're telling someone to do that.
Now if I'm, if I really just wanted to get this, if I'm really just trying to get a PhD
as a Bible scholar, and I don't really have faith, right?
Let's say I'm a real critical scholar.
You're still making me sign it.
And because I'm not going to go along with this thing, I'm lying to you.
So I'm lying to somebody, no matter what, you're making people lie by doing this.
How stupid is that?
It's just, it's so crazy.
It's like, I can't take it seriously anymore.
I can't.
It's almost like, it's almost like mind control.
Isn't it?
I mean, you see it.
They talk down on people, like people like myself, who I do this completely on my own.
I'm not working for a university.
I'm not a, I don't have a, I'm not a scholar.
I'm just a guy with the channel that wants to learn and wants to make content.
But when I come to some of these people with their masters of divinities and I talk to
them and I bring stuff up, like, Hey, why does Herodotus never mention any of this?
Like, I'll just say stuff like, how come these elephantine Jews living in the fifth century
don't have any book of Exodus, they don't have a book of Genesis, they don't have any
of the prophets, they have a temple of Yahweh, but they also have other, like, what's going
on?
Like, why is there nothing, no evidence at all of any of these texts until the fourth
and third century.
And they, they just write me off like, I'm, like, I'm being like, like, I'm a mythicist
or some crazy person.
They just write you off completely.
Like, you, like, what you're saying is so, it's so beneath me that I don't even have
to respond to you.
That's what that's how that's, that's the type of mentality that I, that I get when
I, when I bring these, bring this stuff to their, to their attention.
It just seems like what I'm saying is so, it's so look at, look at me.
I have a PhD in the, in the Dead Sea Scrolls.
So that means I went to school for 10 years and you, you're bringing stuff to my attention
that I've never heard before.
So therefore it must not be true.
That's what it feels like.
It feels like you think because you went to school for 10 years that you know everything
now.
And it's like, that's not what I'm seeing.
I'm not impressed to be honest.
I'm just not, I would, I would correct you on one way, Neil, I would correct you on one
way.
You said, I'm not a scholar.
That's not true.
That's not true.
You're a better scholar than people I worked with.
Okay.
So that's, that's absolutely not true.
You're a scholar of this public museum and people come to you to get that information.
So you know, you may not be sharing in the glory of the boys at Princeton and Harvard,
but yes, we can smack, but you're a scholar, but you're a scholar.
Don't ever say you're not a scholar, but no, that's bullshit.
That's bullshit.
Those degrees that those people have are worthless.
They think they can hold them over your head.
You show them the evidence and they run away.
They run away like cowards, Sir Smug, you're a coward.
I asked, I asked for a citation of Genesis, just so many one, one person mentioning the
book of Genesis and the ancient world, let's say before, all right, before 400.
Let's see, that should be pretty easy.
I get shown a Hebrew word, two Hebrew words side by side in the book of Jeremiah.
Now, yes, it's true that in the book of Genesis, those two Hebrew words show up side by side.
How is that a citation?
You found a genetic connection between two texts, maybe.
How is that a citation though, right?
That's what I asked for.
That's what I got.
So if that's the best you can give me when I ask for a citation of the most masterpiece
book of all time, the book that started three major religions that conquered the world.
And all I'm asking for is somebody somewhere that mentioned this text before 400 BC.
And the best you can do is show me some language in another book that doesn't even say, like
a citation to me is when Plato says, in Homer's Odyssey book 10, Odysseus does this.
That's a citation.
But when something happens in one book and they mention a word, they use the word chaos.
And then in another book, someone else uses the word chaos.
That's not a citation.
The citation would be, oh, in the book written by Moses called Genesis, here's what it says,
blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
That's a citation.
And that's what I said to this person, I said, that's not a citation.
They wrote me off like I was some crazy person because I didn't accept this idea of a citation.
So I'm just saying that that's the best, if that's the first thing you're throwing at
me, then I already know that where I'm going is in the right direction.
Do you feel, Neil, you don't have to name names.
But do you feel that in all of your interactions with scholars over the years, do you feel
that you may have been intellectually molested a little bit?
Oh, yeah, especially, especially when isn't the church glad I broke out of that pretty quick, though.
I'm sorry, even after, though, even after like coming out of that.
And I start, you know, start following different with different academics.
Yeah, of course.
That's that's the case sometimes, you know.
Yeah, yeah, it's just a shame that people won't that people won't kind of say, hey, damn,
the fame, damn, the career, damn, the money, we're just bringing the museum.
And that's what you're doing.
That's what you're doing.
Well, I hope I hope your art, by the way, for all my audience, I hope Neil's art continues to
take off because he's going to be the next get this.
I hope you don't mind if I tell him, but they know that you work with me, you produce some
of the video that I'm bringing out and your style and your, you know, your certain flair
that you've got.
And I want to thank you for doing it.
I want them to recognize that as well.
But I have presented Neil with one of the most difficult projects I think you could have.
And that is, I asked him to present the image of Lady Babylon, the media producing the
communion from her vagina, just as the texts talk about.
And I'm hoping that he can do this, but he has to go up against an AI.
You have to battle an AI, right?
Things very regulated on what you try to produce, which is, which you can understand that
because there's people who try to make, you know, pedophilia shit going on.
So you can see why it's like that.
So I don't know what it's going to let me do.
I don't know how far it'll let me go, but we're definitely going to try it.
Pologically, people remember, I'm going to be reading a text.
This is a preview.
I'm going to be reading a text so the whole YouTube community can know how on the up and
up this is, I'm going to be reading a text of a Roman, Gaius Valerius Flaccus, where
he describes Medea taking the drug from her vagina that is used to anoint Jason so that
he can be both flame retardant and without any pain, you know, stimulated for combat.
Love it.
Love it.
So I'm hoping that Neil can bring this image of Lady Babylon through.
I love it.
Neil, I can't thank you enough for working with me.
My pleasure.
All right, guys, thanks for coming tonight and rock on and Hail Satan.
Hail Satan.
