Dark clouds rising, oh there's no sunshine anywhere, strong winds blowing, God give us wisdom to grasp the message in the air.
Oh, if I could have one wish and know that it would come true, and wish that God would give us strength to know just what to do, then we could tear down the fences at Fences Valley.
Fences created by such evil men, then we could tear down the fences at Fences Valley. Maybe we could walk together again.
Welcome to Lady Babylon Friday. It is time for us to initiate the satanic initiation. Fantastic, here we go.
Tonight, what are we going to look at? It's going to be scandalous tonight. It's going to be scandalous, there's going to be some ooh-ah, there's going to be some exchange of fluids.
It's what we have from this great Bible of ours, and it's what we need to look at. Tonight we're going in and we're going to see the reason that it warned everybody.
You're going to be scandalized, and don't forget this guy.
You know what I mean? Tonight on Lady Babylon.
Fantastic. Great to have you back, and I know. Tonight, we're just going to go directly into the meat.
And the loveliness of what we've got tonight with Jesus is scandalon. Yes, and we're going to bring that up to the front, we're going to see.
Does this have anything to do with his trial? Can we bring this in as evidence? We're going to look at a state of mind a little bit.
We're going to look at Jesus' state of mind, and I think you're going to be surprised. I think you're going to be surprised.
Oh, the Greek is lovely, lovely. It's delicious. You look so beautiful tonight, Muse. Oh my goodness. Thanks for this. It's fantastic.
I want to bring you Egeria, who is going to bring us the purge. We're going to get rid of that stink before we begin. Should we hit it?
Yeah.
Yeah.
And that's what the priests of Apollo said, Plutarch himself, about her, Egeria.
Who was this Daimon? Who was this Daimon who gave us our religion? If you and I are Romans, she's the reason that we think what we do.
Egeria was her name. Egeria. Let's bring up right away. We want the evidence tonight. Boom, boom, boom. I want you guys to see this.
The ship's already there. We're getting out. We're going to go see Jesus. Before we do, I want to take everybody, as a special treat tonight, out to the cantina.
And I want us to be able to have a little bit of fun with some menads. So, where's Elian? Elian, get up here, Elian.
Now, I'm just going to drag you, Elian, in here because this is a lengthy passage, but I want you to keep an eye on the partying.
I want you to keep an eye. I don't think you realize how deep they went in antiquity. I want you to see the Balkans doing exactly what Balkans do.
No more story time. Put away the Noah's Ark and the pictures and the rides. Pop up little animals. Put that all away because now tonight we're going to see the real stuff.
You're about to watch Balkans. We'll get a little bit of the atmosphere here. I want you guys to soak it up. Then we'll go in and we'll see the Christ.
Fantastic. Let's bring up that very first. Oh, I got to squeeze over here. I got to squeeze over here. Blow me up, Chewie.
Yeah, I'm too small. Look, I'm tiny. Okay, Elegi. Oh, by the way, this is from, yeah, we said, it's a translation by Thomas Stanton.
Look from the 17th century. Is that the best you could do? Is that the best you could do? It's Elian. Give them a break and it's a fine translation.
Elegi and Kehlani were daughters of Preetis. The Queen of Cyprus worked them to prostitute themselves and so much as in some parts of Peloponnesus, they ran up and down as it is said, naked and raging.
Remember, this is the prostitution that isn't just prostitution. It's also temple worship. Right. This is a religion. You're watching religious. These are nuns from ancient Greece.
What are nuns in ancient Greece? They get naked and they run around crazy. Oh, is this fantastic? They're raging. Would you like to be one of these nuns?
Just get rid of everything. Drink your drink and next thing you know, you're chasing, chasing images through the air. Oh, you fly. They say it's flight. The witches, they got it from the Balkans, right?
It's all the pharmacology. You just have to trace the pharmacology. Let's look at it. They roved also mad into other parts of Greece. Oh, look, it was like an extended crazy vacation.
A religious purgation of your soul. You got to be done with your problems after you come back from one of these. Transported with this distemper, right?
We've got something going on in the mind is likewise reported. The wives of the last of the monies were transported with Bacchanalian fury. They got into it too. Right.
Now, listen, this is not just us showing up at a concert and taking something that a pharmaceutical rep during the day and a peddler at night gives people, right?
No, this is a sophisticated combo. We're about to see snakes and stuff like that. Oh, God, love it. And look what it does. It drives them. It drives them on.
Do you know now why Medea brought this to people? You can free somebody. You can free somebody without their even resisting, right?
It's that contagion that which has that power. Lady Babylon has that power of contagion. Bring us back. I want to see what more of those dirty Balkans were doing.
Show us this dirty. Eileen, show us this dirty Balkan stuff. Yeah, they say that only the Minyades, Laokipi and Aristopeia, yeah, and I'll see a thief. They declined the dance of Bacchus.
Oh, that's a big mistake. If you are in your life and you feel the call, you should not turn away from it. Why? Have you not been reading anything?
These Balkans, they turned on Orpheus and cut his head off. They turned on Orpheus and cut his head off, right? This is our religion, people. Let's get it. Let's see what's going on.
Yeah, so they declined to dance. The cause were of that they desired to have husbands and therefore would not be mean ads to the God. Where at? He wasn't sensed. Of course, he was mad.
And when they were working at their looms and very busy, look at 17th century busy, boozy, boozy, boozy and weaving on a sudden branches of ivy and vines twined about their looms and dragons.
Dragons made nests in the bag baskets. Why would they do that? Because this is Bacchus, baby. And you know what we've got in our baskets that were carrying around while we're frenzying?
Yeah, you know, this is organized frenzy, right? It's good stuff. You've got those vipers, those North African vipers in them. Oh, God, it hurts. We're about to see Jesus, right? You want to see Jesus in pain? How many of you out there want to see Jesus in pain? Let me see it because we're going to go into the Gospels.
You're going to see him in pain. You always thought Jesus was like this. No, he's not. He's not. He's in pain here. I mean, this is enough to turn on Mel Gibson, you know what I mean? This is enough to bring out that that sadomasochistic instinct that wants us to put on the stage.
Ooh, the beating. Oh, crucify him. Yeah. Ride that kind of thing. It's bringing that out in the individual. These are what the Bacchus are doing. It's part of the holy fervor. Okay, let's bring me back to that text one more time and we'll shuffle off to some Greek.
Take down the initiation. Good. Fantastic. And what happens now? He was mad, so they got the ivy growing. They got the dragons in their baskets, the snakes. And from the roof, there's still drops of milk and wine. Were you waiting for it? It's coming, milk and wine. Yeah, good, good, good, good.
Good, good, good, good. Now, I just wanted you to see. For the many of these, seized with frenzy, torn pieces, a young infant. Oops. Oops, you can take it down. Do you know what happens? Do you know what happens when you piss off a god? Do you know what happens?
Immediate, immediate, overwhelming force, immediate, overwhelming force. This isn't a universe of opposite reactions. You know, everything has its opposite. No, no, no, this is no balancing here. Yeah, no. This is you set off a nuclear reaction.
Yeah, now, now you're in trouble. Now you're in trouble. You split the atom. And what happens? So a group of these menads. Now imagine this anthropologically. These menads are under the influence of some psychosis inducing drugs. Not only that, they're heavy on the aphrodisiacs.
So they're all walking around excited.
Satyrs. Anywho, that's why they carry sticks, right? Sticks, weapons, theater soy, they carry them around, got it with all the drugs, right? And what did they do? They came across the person who wouldn't honor the god, and they mistook her child for a sacrifice to die a night.
Isn't that nice? Isn't that nice? They took that child. They tore him to pieces. They tore him to pieces. I'd tell you what they did with the pieces. We know what the Balkans did with the flesh. Did you know the Balkans were flesh eaters?
Oh, you didn't. When Jesus is sitting there, and he says, right, knock, knock, knock the door. We're having dinner. We're having this last supper. Yeah. And what's he doing?
He's giving us flesh in his blood.
Okay. Okay, are you ready? It only gets worse from here, right? But we've got to go all the way because you guys love this stuff, right? We've got to see the grit. Yeah, and I appreciate that you're here. Thank you for coming tonight, by the way, my most excellent audience. Fantastic.
I want to bring this up. What is this? You know, this is Jesus. And he said, I said these things. I'm not even going to give you where this is from. It's just G. It's one of the Gospels, right? And Jesus says, you know, I told you these things that I told you before.
In order that you may not be scandalized. Scandalized. What is a scandalization? What is it when, what is a scandal on? What is it to scandalize or someone really like to scandalize you?
Yeah, it comes from the word for a trap. It's a trap. Something that you get caught in. And it goes back to the scandal on that was used in there, one of the traps they made for animals, small animals. Yeah, you don't want to get into a trap.
Stop. You're going to scandalize me. You're going to get me caught. You're going to get me caught. Let's, let's see. And now we're going to take that verse. Watch this. We're going to transform that verse. I want to put that up there one more time.
I'm going to transform it into English using the King James, the new American standard and all the chappy chaps. Here's one. All this I have told you so that you will not fall away.
No, but good try. Next. These things I've spoken to you so that you may be, so that you may be kept. Oh, from stumbling, kept from stumbling. That's a wee bit closer. But no, these things have I spoken to you that you should not be offended.
Look, does anybody feel like we're all sitting in the same circle watching the same person masturbate? That's what I feel like. And I'm tired of it. King James, you can stick it in your ear. Let's go to the next one. Where's the next? Fantastic.
Fantastic. Now I'm going to transform. Here's the magic. Here's the magic. My assistant can show some mind changing, altering images while we're doing this, but I'm performing a magic trick as we speak. And I'm transforming that verse into this thing, into this thing right here.
And how am I doing it? I'm doing it through somebody who lived in the fifth century, whose Greek is better than the best, is better than the best. This guy knows everything about cult, particularly.
My God. Let's see how he translated that verse, because he took that verse and he rephrased it. And here's what we've got. I want to read this to you in Greek.
This is great. I'm sure you'll get it too big.
And what does that mean? No, keep it up there. My eyes are terrible. Keep it up there.
What does it mean? Let me just translate it for you. I'm telling you this announcement in a fit of prophetic rage.
So that you don't have to partake of that unstoppable poison that induces the fury. Why did we go from one universe to another?
He just said, he just said this was all. What is the scandalizing? How is he translating the scandalizing?
You don't have to enter into the fury because he does. And tonight on the night he gave his flesh and blood, on the night he took of the cup of the vine, I am the vine.
You're the branches. There he is. There he is. Anonis says, what is he doing? He's taking that. He's taking that oistress for us. He is assuming the oistress for us.
Okay, that explains a lot of why it's about to say that Jesus was in a state of intoxication. Let's look at the next slide, please.
I want you to notice this vocabulary. Here's your oistress people. And I just want you to notice a sting or anything that particularly drives mad.
I want you to keep that in your minds. Keep it in your minds. What does madness have to do with Jesus? You have to have the madness.
Next one to have the prophecy. What is the oistromanes? That is a state of being mad from that sting, from that raging, from that raging.
The Christ is a rager. That's why in the Gospel, according to Anonis, Jesus is constantly shouting. And you see in a Bacchic, with a Bacchic shout,
Jesus is constantly doing that.
Give me the next slide. Love it. Thank you, Chewie. This is a state you want to be in, folks, right? In order to become prophetic, this is just the way things are.
I didn't make this up, right? It's just from the language. In order to become a frenzied person, you have to go through this pathway of the sting.
The sting in my flesh, says Paul. There's a sting in my flesh. Thorn. Push that thorn in. Push it in. Here we go. Bring up the next slide.
And that's in order. All of that is in order to produce this. This is what Anonis says, Jesus is. He is this source, right? This wondrous, awful, oracular source filled with the words of God.
Do you see that, Phil? This is such a Greek pagan idea. We get thespian, right? Right? Now you know why the thespians are who they are, right?
Because that stage is divine inspiration. If you aren't possessed, you have never been inside a mystery. If you aren't possessed, you come out of there with your backside hurting because that thing is that bench is so hard and you've been sitting on it.
You finally got up there and you got your communion. You got a little blood flowing in your legs and bored to death from all the blah, blah, blah, dingaling, dingaling, blah, blah, blah, boom.
Yeah, if you're getting possession from that, good for you. Good for you. The Balkans, they did the real thing. And Jesus does the real thing. Jesus does the real thing. Let's keep going with the quotes.
Yep. Go ahead. Look at this real quick. People blow out a giant. I just want you to see this. So yeah, he says, so Jesus says, you know, tells him, he says, you know, you guys are all going to get scandalized in me through through me.
What do you mean, Jesus? You're all going to get scandalized through me. Yeah, it's even a little bit just a tiny tad bit creepier because it uses the preposition in. It's like I got something inside me that's going to scandalize everybody here.
Yeah, it's kind of gross. Let's let's not dwell for that on too long. But I want you to realize as he is getting ready for his time in the garden. And right after that, as you and I know is crucifixion, as he's getting ready for that.
Where's his brain? Where's his brain out? Number one, he's worried. He's worried, right? We got to talk about the events that led up to the, to our transdimensional, you know, crime in the garden.
We're still not going to let that go. We're not going to dismiss the naked kid that's with Jesus when he's arrested at 4am in a garden. We're not going to, we're not going to dismiss that.
Okay, bring up the, go ahead and bring up the next one for me. Yeah. Yeah, go ahead. It's just a couple of, look, this very night, you'll all fall away. Look at how they struggle with it over and over and over again.
Are you kidding? That is nothing to do with, give me another one. Oh God, tonight all of you will desert me. He doesn't say that. He doesn't say, and how do you know that this thing is written?
Look, I'm going to dedicate this to all the biblical scholars out there who talk about knowing Greek. You know who you are? You know who you are?
I just want you to see where it said scriptures there. Whoops, go back to that before we get to the screamer. See the scriptures?
There's no, that's somebody modern who's part of a religion creating vocabulary for you. The scriptures. What BS is that? Oh my God. It's ridiculous. Scriptures. Now children, turn your Bibles to be quiet. Let me translate the thing.
This is too much. It's too much. Now look at this guy. This guy had to shout, I will strike down. Yes. Okay. Thank you very much. All fall away. Ashes to ashes. We all fall down, right? I'm still not set on what Scandalizo is. Let's go to the next one.
Oh, look at this little tidbit. Okay, so where's the mind of Jesus? Okay, I'm going to show you the mind of Jesus in a way you've never seen before. Where is he on his way to the garden? Where would the Bakken be?
He's taking his communion. It's starting to kick in. And what is the whole troop doing with him? They're all going to get scandalized with him. They're all going to get scandalized with him. And what are they doing? He can't even keep three of them from falling over asleep, right?
Because the drugs are kicking in. And he's there. What are they doing? Look what this says. They went there. They went to the mound of olives. And what did they do? What did they do? They were singing hymns. They were singing hymns. They were Dithirambic. Right? What is that hymn of mourning? It's that place that you go to when you've taken the drugs that will kill you.
And bring you alive again.
What do you think we're doing with Lazarus and the cave people? What do you think all these demoniacs are doing?
If you read the Bible, just read the New Testament and ask yourself just this one question. Read the whole thing. Ask yourself one question. Where do all the demoniacs hang out?
Yeah, it's a cemetery for a reason.
So what do we do before we go to our cemetery? We have a procession. We're Balkans. We have a procession. And what do we do in our procession? We sing hymns. The Athenians took this historically, these Balkans, and redirected them into a theater.
And said, hey, let's just set you up here and you'll do your thing here. Isn't that nice?
Yeah, gorgeous. That's the theater. That's the theater with these possessed people. Remember, and they're naked. Right?
Do you have a problem with naked meat nads running around beating up and torturing people? If you do, you might want to vote to quash the uprising. Yeah, fantastic.
But Jesus, he's right in the midst of it. Where's his head? Give me the next script. Look, they got me doing it. Give me the next passage, please.
Oh, God, I love this. Watch this. Jesus is about to go in. And he's like, hey, hey, Peter, Peter and the two sons of Zebedee. You know what they call those guys? Those are boy and wad of guests.
And look, we got to make fun of some Aramaic, some Aramaic linguists who didn't have a brain bigger than a P and had an agenda. So all of a sudden, we think it's something that it's not.
Let me show you some classical. It works out for a boy and wad of cases. And you notice I'm using the diagram. That is good strong. I'm going to show you good stuff here.
But sons of thunder is what the group is that they're a part of these are the sons of God, baby, the ones that are pierced by that lightning.
And you say, wait a minute, I thought we were with Bacchus. Exactly. He was bathed in the lightning. He was bathed in the lightning.
You mean Jesus was bathed in the lightning. Jesus was bathed in the lightning.
Got to get a little medicine on that. Let's go to that. Let's go to the next one. So, um, yeah, wait, go back to that one. I want to make sure I didn't miss that.
Yeah. And what is Jesus? Look, let's pick this up. Everybody who's making the special. Get these details in. Right. What is he? He's in pain. The pace that way.
He's in pain. Jesus. You need to see a doctor, Jesus. Hello. Do you need to see a doctor, Jesus? What's wrong? Does this hurt?
He's in pain. There's no mistaking that word. Let's get the text one more time. What else is he in addition to being in pain? He's a demon.
He's a demon. What does that mean? Literally, it means out of one's deem out of your neighborhood.
Now, the another place you find this word being used is in Galen's commentary on Hippocrates.
Epidemics one, he starts talking about different diseases that are going on and he's describing symptoms and in a, in a battery of diseases that appear to be malaria type diseases.
He talks about fevers and the induction of fever and he talks about what happens to the patient. And one of the words that he uses is this odd demon.
They enter into a demonia and what, what is the odd demon? It's a place of confusion. It's a place of confusion. It's somewhere on the road to total and utter delirium.
Yeah. Isn't that nice? Isn't that nice? So Jesus is in pain and he's becoming delirious. Yeah.
Did anybody notice that he was sweating? Did anybody touch him? We got that DNA. If we had that boy, we could get Jesus's DNA, maybe.
Right. Right. Remember, go home from the Sunday school and ask a Mark 14, 51, 52. What's that naked kid doing there?
Okay. So here comes Jesus. Let's go to the next. He's stumbling out. You know, he's got his three, he's got his three buddies, right?
And they're falling asleep, you know, because they're doubly bombed. Right. Okay. Good. We just been in this procession.
This stuff's got to tire you out, man. They talk about the Balkans in classical texts laying around totally like you gotta like push them and kind of revive them to wake them up, the whole group of them.
And we're given instructions. We have ancient documents that says, Hey, just pick these people up off the ground, lay them in a bed and give them, give them fluids and nurse them back.
They'll be back. Yeah. We know they're Balkans. It's what they do. It's what they do. And you thought you thought you were there in the mystery, didn't you?
You didn't, you didn't realize what Paul was given the pithiest. That's your hard time. Now, you know, she was outing him. She was outing him for what he was doing.
Everybody knew it. Paul. Yeah, Mr. Immune to Vipervenom. Yeah, you've got to take that into consideration. One of your witnesses comes in the court, and you can tell they're under the influence.
You have to take that into consideration. Fantastic. Let's go to the next. I love that word. Let's go to the next one.
Yeah. And, oh, yeah, I just want to tell you, I want to shift a little bit now. And I just, I'm going to show you how this is related.
Look, it's directly related because on the fourth line, the first word in the fourth line, you see the ademonia.
And I just wanted to show you guys that this word that is describing Jesus's mental state is used of Numa.
And it says it's with respect to his soul. Yeah, yeah, that place, that place of confusion. It wasn't because of a confusion in his soul that he did this.
What did Numa do? He dropped everything. You people are going to love this. You know what this says? Numa left the city behind and all that city life, and he chose to live out in the wilds.
Yeah. And what did he do? He wandered a lot by himself, right? That's what he wanted to do. And he wandered around sacred groves and meadows and places out in the wilderness.
He wandered in these places. And what was he doing? What was he doing? Well, in that place, this is at least what they say, right?
The Logos. What's the Logos on it? The Logos on it is that he knew of goddess. Yeah, and that he was with that goddess. And what did they do, right?
We know historically that Numa took that goddess's words, put them into scrolls, and those scrolls became the foundation for the religion that built your Christianity.
Okay, fantastic, fantastic, especially for the papa in the seat in the Holy See. Yeah, you know, I'm talking to you.
Here we go. What happens here? What happens here? So Numa has her as not, he didn't go to this place because he's crazy, bring up the next one.
He didn't go to this place because he's crazy, delirious. He went here because of what? Because he had a taste.
Now, everybody who's, I told you this would be sexy tonight, it's gonna get a little bit academically sexy because he had a taste.
Yeah, he had a taste. What do you have a taste of? He had a taste of the Holy Homelia. Have you ever had the Holy Homelia?
I'm asking you, sitting there tonight, have you ever had Holy Homelia? What's that?
Chewie, Chewie, you gotta find out what that homelia is. I'm sorry, intercourse, company number two, look at number two, it's sexual intercourse.
But look at number three, it's also instruction. Take that down. Take that down. Is your intercourse holy?
It's a shame if it's not. Yeah. Is your instruction coming from your intercourse? You know how it is. You have an interaction, right?
There's things going on, bits being passed back and forth, sacred homelia, sacred homelia. I bet that's the first time I'm glad to be able to introduce you to sacred intercourse.
Just think about it for a second. Holy intercourse. Boy, is that not going to be welcomed by the Baptist? No, it's not. No, it's not.
Frustration reigns. Let's go to the next spot. We gotta keep it. We gotta keep it hot.
Okay, I wanted you to see, look, look, look, these sons of Zebedee, right? James, John, and James, right? They called them Bonerges.
Yeah, and then he says, and that literally just says, that is to say, or witches, the sons of the Brontes, that rod, boom, boom. Do you feel it? When that light comes from the sky and you feel that, boom.
Yeah, that's Brontes. They say, they say, you know, that's the weapon. That's the weapon is that shaking, right? And what does this guy do? He's Bonerges. So somebody came along and said, oh, let's put some Aramaic into the text, which is stupid, which is stupid.
Yeah, let's go to the bookstore and grab some chop suey and throw it at the wall and see if any of it sticks.
Now, that's what that is. Now, I'm not kidding you, people. This is not Aramaic, right? The sons of the bolt are the bonkins. Why do you think he called those guys that you know what those magicians could do? You want to see how much they were into drugs?
You thought, oh, it's an Aramaic. They were, why did they call that? You know, the Aramaic is switched backwards. You flipped your consonants, your morons. That thing perfectly works out in Greek, right?
Right. Wedgace is a working and born as a shout of the Bakant, the shout of the Bakant. Oh, okay. Nice. Now let's watch what these people are doing. Go to the next one. Yeah, yep, that's good.
Go back to that one for a second. Let's just make sure. I want to make sure. Yep, that's it. Go to the next one. Fantastic. And what are these guys able to do? Look what these guys are able to do, these sons of thunder, as you have been calling them, right?
Right? What happens? Do you want us? They, something's wrong. And they asked Jesus, Thele, you want that we should, you know, call down the poor from the Uranus. Wait, call down the fire from heaven. Are you kidding me? What does that mean?
Call down the fire from heaven. And all of us get in our little bus to go to our school where the big purple mascot touches us.
And we say, what's going on with this text? What's going on? Right? Bring it back up. Bring it back up. Look, look at it. Look at the word that we've got here. A poem. You want, we should maybe say something to bring down the poor. You see the poor? This is all over.
So if you don't know these texts, you don't know what the fire from Uranus is or the fire from heaven as it's called by Baptists.
God called the fire of heaven down. Yeah, you can scare people with this stuff. You can. Moses is doing it too. Why? Because he's a wizard.
And why do I say wizard? Because these are people who are involved with drugs. That's the word for wizard and antiquity. Drug users.
And what special trick can these drug users do? Well, thanks to Medea, they can have the fire of Uranus.
Oh, God. Oh, God, you mean this Bacchic Empire built by that Queen in Georgia who ruled all the way from Babylon to Northern Italy? Do you think? Do you think that maybe it was her industriousness with these drugs and these substances that drove it all the way down to Jesus? Yeah.
And it's not me saying that. It's known us. It's known us. We get a chance to see the actual Jesus through known us. It's amazing. And it makes every passage work.
I'm telling you, I have spent the last two weeks unfolding Jesus Christ. It's amazing. It's amazing. And I hope to keep bringing it to you. I want to end with this little tidbit. Go ahead and give me that last one.
Give me a little. There we go. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Look at 26. So this is from like first Chronicles.
First Chronicles. I don't know why it's funny. And Oiko de Mason, they built, right? Who did? He sheared it, built something. Dawid. Dawid. Yeah, Dawid. There's a diagram in there. Dawid. Yeah, good.
Enthusiastereon, they built there an altar to the Kurios. Yeah. And they compelled sacrifices, things that they were going to burn and things that have to do. It's a special sacrifice as a way of saying, thank you for saving me.
Scythia, the Savioress, right? This is all mystery, religion. And what did they do? They built this, they built this thing and they put the put their stuff on it. And what happened?
Do you know what the bow and wear gaze were doing? They were doing this verb right here in order to bring that fire from heaven in order to bring it. You got to do the shout. You got to do the shout. It's just part of the ritual. Yeah. Isn't that amazing?
Oh, my God. It's complete buckets. Now, I know people have been saying for a while, we know the Bacchic elements that are in the gospel. What I'm saying is you don't know half of them. You don't know half of them.
Known as is the bridge that will unseal for our generation these sealed books. The gospels are sealed until you have the cipher. You will never know Jesus.
I can't stick around any longer tonight. I'm going to have to go into my cave. I appreciate everything. I'll make up for it next Wednesday on the discord. But for now, I'm going to take a break from this dimension at least.
Thank you very much for your time tonight. Thank you for the exotic and wonderful comments that you're giving. I love them and I take them all into consideration. I especially love the haters. I love it. It gives me joy.
And it's kind of a sick pleasure. So please keep it up. You're feeding me. And everybody who is trying to get closer to the Greek, keep it up. Keep it up. Do you see what's sitting there under the text? Somebody asked me today.
They said, Do you think that Iamblichus is the most difficult Greek author? And I said, No, the person I told that to you is a moron who doesn't read Greek. Iamblichus is about a six, about a six to a seven.
Yeah, known us because of his precision with the vocabulary. His grammar is okay. And he's having to fit meter. So it's a little bit slippery. But that's okay. What's really, and he can play with the words, he can play and lengthen vowels, he can shorten vowels.
But what's really neat is this technical vocabulary and known us will uncover exactly what we called the mysteries in the Gospels. Yes, it's the key to unlock that this season, this sixth season is time to show you the cipher and to allow you to see.
With those eyes of the dragon. Thank you for coming tonight. Hail Satan.
Maybe we could walk together again.
