Drinking whiskey, when that whiskey's burned through my veins
Indian goes crazy and the Scottsman wants to bash out the brain
Of an English man, don't know why
Got a little mixed up in the hills of Carolina
You see, you've got your selling and you got your drinking whiskey
Oh yeah, drinking whiskey, oh yeah
Okay my droogs, tonight you're going to have to pull out that syntha mask
You're going to have to get it on within the throne
And you're going to have to bring out your war cry
Because tonight we are kicking down the gates
We're kicking down the gates of the sanctuary
And we are taking the holy books
And nobody will ever give them back
Okay, we're going to have to get it on tonight
Tonight we're going to have to be serious
We've got our 30 minutes to cut a deal here
We've got to storm that tower and we've got to take those books
Tonight I'm going to take us right up
Right up through Christianity
I'm going right up through every evangelical's sumos
I'm going right through it
I'm going through Orthodox Jewry
I'm going through that early period
I'm going through Hellenistic Grace
Oh, and we're going to go right into that Septuagint
Right into the heart of your misconceptions
And misbelief
This is beautiful
We're going to talk about the Septuagint
The text of Daniel
And somebody took out of Daniel
Somebody harvested part of it
They wouldn't let it into the canon because it talked about the dragon
Yes, the dragon, exactly one of those guardians of the relics
We know them historically
So here we're going to go
We're going to look at Daniel
And I just want to ask for a minute
Because really where we're headed is the abomination
Dilma
The abomination of desolation
Has anybody heard of the abomination of desolation?
Hit it, Chewie
Now the subject of today's study
Has an ominous sounding title
And it is a very serious subject
What is the abomination of desolation?
The abomination of desolation
Abomination of desolation
Abomination of desolation
Abomination of desolation
Abomination of desolation
The abomination of desolation
The abomination of desolation
Abomination of desolation
The abomination of desolation
Yes, we'll play that a couple of times to hypnotize you.
And that's what we're going to be talking about tonight, but before we begin in order
to get the right spirit, right, because you can't, you can't, people, necromancy 101,
you cannot summon a dead eunuch.
Can't summon a dead eunuch without a dead lover of eunuchs.
So tonight I want to, come on, Chuck, come on.
I can, I can feel you.
Can you smell it?
It smells like an opium den in here.
You know what I mean?
We're in that French salon and we're drinking wine, we're drinking wine, hashish.
There's some hashish in the air.
Some of us are partaking.
We are in that place that droogs go to all of we droogs.
Yes, throne of Satan, right?
These are truly the deep things of Satan.
Fantastic.
Let's bring up Chuck.
Chuck, Baudelaire, that's why we went to France, right?
Everybody's like, why'd you stop the car early?
We're not in antiquity.
No, no, no, we got to just go back a couple of hundred years, man.
We're going to go back to Chuck, Chuck, set the stage for us.
And by the way, for those of you who are listening, just consider this the opening
him.
Yes, we're in that oracular place that Chuck so mastered.
Yeah.
So here we are.
We're looking for that oracle to emit that sweet smelling voice.
We pour out prayers, we pour out prayers, but first, where's our eunuch?
Where's our eunuch?
Bring him up.
Bring him in.
Eunuchs.
Get us up here.
Yep.
There we go.
Oh, here's so nice.
Look at this.
Where are we?
This is the book of Daniel, right?
Which many of you think was written in Hebrew, but it's not.
The oldest version we have is in Greek, and it is not a translation.
It is not a magical, let me step back, fairy tales aside, everybody around you thinks that
this book of Daniel was written in Hebrew and then translated, maybe Aramaic translated
into Greek and Septuagint magically by 70 some scholars and they weren't even scholars,
right?
They were holy men because who else could go into different cells and come up with the
exact same verbatim translation of a text that in Hebrew, they said they have, but
we don't have, doesn't exist.
Stop the magic.
Let's get the science going people and stop the magic.
This was right.
This stuff was written in Greek.
It's got Greek idiom in it.
Okay, so let's look at it and funny thing is, I'll give you one, one thing that will
make the evangelicals quite upset.
All the references to Christ have been scrubbed from it.
Yes.
All the references of Christ in the Septuagint were taken out by the gentle men and I'll put
my focus on the men, the gentle men of the 10th century, those, what did they call themselves?
They were sacked.
They were sacked trying to, they had one agenda and that was to make Hebrew the holy language,
right?
It's got to be the language of Jehovah that is the holy language and these Maserites,
they went ahead and they created a text in which they scrubbed any references to Christ.
Wow.
Fantastic.
Fantastic.
Did you know that?
No, but we have the original text.
See, they couldn't, they couldn't erase it from history because the Septuagint is still
sitting there.
It's still there.
Let's go to the text.
Run to the Unix.
Remember, we're in the garden with Jesus all the time.
That is all this investigation is about to find out what he's doing in that garden with
that naked kid.
Let's go to our first passage.
This is Daniel.
Who is this now?
We're talking about Darius, who's the king of the Medes, that's what the text says.
King of the Medes.
In that door, right?
Caipano Basileos and the king says to his arch eunuch, his archi eonuchoi.
Oh my God.
Take that down.
What is it?
First of all, I didn't know there was eunuchs, much less arch eunuchs.
Yes.
Arch eunuchs.
Eunuchs are ranked.
What is a eunuch, you say?
I just want to repeat to you a little something that Guaza said in the 16th.
Yay.
Yay.
Yay.
Here it is.
What?
What?
What?
What?
A laughable and at the same time, pitiable example of this art is told of a young man
of Narbonne who was led into slavery by a Thracian pirate.
He was put to sleep by a powerful drug and his testicles were so neatly cut out, but when
he awoke thus deprived of his virility, he marveled at himself as at a new man.
Yes.
A new creation.
Gorgeous.
What do you do with eunuchs in antiquity?
There's a lot you can and can't do with eunuchs.
You can't get pregnant from them.
Yes.
You can't.
They no longer can impregnate you.
However, they still have sexual drive.
So they make excellent, excellent, excellent slaves for the wealthy.
For the wealthy.
Yes.
You can have, if you're a woman, you can have multiple eunuchs.
Take your pick.
Take your pick of the eunuchs.
What kind of eunuchs do we want?
We want eunuchs that are good looking according to the Bible.
These have to be the best looking eunuchs.
We have the, just so the people get the, you know, go ahead and put up words of Jesus.
Jesus said something about eunuchs.
Wait a minute.
A cigar, eunuchoy, hotines, ecolias, metros, eginecesan, bring it back up.
I'm just going to translate.
There are eunuchs, the sort that are that way from birth, yeah?
And there are those that are made eunuch, eunusized.
He says there are those that are eunusized by people.
And there are those who eunusized themselves for the sake of the kingdom of Uranus, hodunamanus,
Horein, Horeito.
Let the one who is able ascend engage.
Let the one who is able to engage engage.
This is mystery.
This is mystery.
Who is Jesus talking about?
People don't even recognize this.
I must have heard a thousand, thousand different Bible scholars and sermons, pastors and priests,
theologians, mon-seniors.
I must have heard a thousand of these business about the eunuch.
Nobody knows what that means.
Does anybody realize that he's talking about eunusizing people within cult?
He's talking about mother, great mother.
He's talking about Addis, bro.
Jesus knows Addis.
Some people do that themselves.
Jesus had to know the golly, or he wouldn't have been talking about people voluntarily
castrating themselves because, you know, it's a big deal, right?
Check out Lucian.
The golloy, and the golloy are constantly those guys that make themselves, you know,
your 10-year-old boy, and you're caught up in the thing, and you're doing the right,
and off it comes, off comes the testicles, right?
Next thing you're gonna throw them into some lady's house, right?
Seriously, should bring you up, dress you up.
Eunuch, that is gorgeous.
Well, Daniel, Daniel is one of these eunuchs, and people are like, I love it.
The Christians are like, oh, well, you know, to what proof do we have that his testicles
were cut off?
Yes, yes.
Okay, well, remember we're in the world of the lace days.
Who do you think was cutting off testicles?
Is the pirates, right, those pirate child traffickers, the ones that Jesus is running
out saying, I am not a child trafficker, right?
The other one's making eunuchs.
That's funny.
Jesus is talking about, that's twice that he's talked about, directly about child trafficking.
We have to keep note of that.
There's gonna be more evidence in his trial, right?
Okay, fantastic.
Yeah, let's go back to that first passage, Daniel.
What happens here, right?
He wants him, he says, King says, hey, brah, Arch eunuch, come here, come here, brah, Arch
eunuch comes down and he's like, I want some boys from the seed of Israel.
I want these captives, you just take a place.
What does he want?
He wants Neoniscous.
Does everybody see it next to that big number four?
That's the arbitrary verse number four, Neoniscous, wait a minute, I've seen a Neoniscous before.
I saw one in the garden with Jesus and everybody says, well, he could have been 35 years old.
Yes, it's a diminutive even, the Sigma Kappa is a diminutive, so it's the little boy.
Oh, yes, that's what he wants, Darius is like, I need my Neoniscous, you know what I mean?
And what kind of Neoniscous do we want if we're king?
Let's see, who are these irracular boys?
Look at hoisuk esti, in whom is not any sort of momos, no blemish, no fault, no physical
fault, but they are kalustey, they are hot to look at.
I want hot boys, that's what Darius says, go get the hot boys of Israel, hot boys, let's
go get them, bring it up.
I told you, your Bible is dirty, it's dirty, right?
So what's he going to do with these guys?
He's going to establish them before himself, to stand there before himself.
He's going to educate him, he's going to bring them through and show them, look at that last
line, the gramata ka glosan hal dayon, the gramata ka glosan, the written forms and
the language of the Kaldian, and you think, Kaldian people, and you think, oh, he's talking
about one thing there, language, yeah, no, he didn't mention a language, but he also
mentioned the gramata.
And for any bonehead who has read, which excludes most classes, the PGM, you know, straight
up that these gramata are magical symbols.
Magical symbols, the gramata, orfica, right?
Those magic symbols that are being used, fish is trying to figure out, right?
We have our best man on it, don't worry.
That's what they're going to be learning, yeah, and they're going to do it through this
closeness.
Okay, let's see what happens.
Then we'll go to Daniel, we're going to go to one of these Unix, we're going to see
what happens to him, yeah, go ahead, hit it, yeah.
Look at verse 21, yeah, and so Daniel's praying, you know, he's praying.
And hey, this, on there, this guy named Gabriel comes in, who he had seen in the vision previously,
and he's flying, he's flying, and what does Gabriel do?
He grabs him, he grabs him right at the time of the Hesperides, right at the time of that
evening sacrifice, yeah, and what does it say in 22, soon eti seh meh, now they typically
translate this as he taught or instructed or something like that, right, he became one
with baby, he became one with me, yeah, and he spoke with me and said, Daniel, nun excel
though, and I have come now, I've come now to bring a soonnesses, yeah, I've come here
to bring a union, to make a union, why is that?
Why is that?
Verse 23, the word, the logos, the expression, the thing you said, the thing you said has
come to me, go back, the thing you said has come to me in your desis, in your yearning,
in your yearning as you prayed, kai ego elthon, and I came to tell you, okay, take it off,
okay, so I get it, he's seen a dude, he saw in a vision before, and the dude hopped ozim,
the dude hopped ozim, and this is the word that is problematic, because hopped o can
be to touch intimately, it can even be to attack with your hands, they have a hands
thing, right, hands, attack with my hands, hopped o, and the parents are like Jesus,
stop hopped oing all our children, and the disciples are like Jesus, they're saying,
don't touch him, don't touch him, and you're saying, Jesus, what did Jesus say, what did
Mr, I'm not a job trafficker, but this is how you make Unix, yeah, what did Jesus say,
oh, don't scandalize me, don't scandalize me, okay, let's go back to the text, so yeah,
he's come in, and what does the angel say to him, he's standing right there, he's standing
right there, oh, he says, horti, aner epithumion esu, I'm gonna try to say it like this, I'm
just gonna try to bring the meaning across, okay, this is angel to hot boy Daniel, angel
to hot boy Daniel, right, try to hear horti aner epithumion esu, because you are a hot,
you are a hot, passionate, desirous kid, wait, what, I've come across you epithumion, that's
what he tells me, he says, I've come across you and you're sitting here epithumion, epithumion,
you know what epithumion is, that's that feeling you get, that's that feeling you get when you see
across a crowded space, you see that person and Eros hits you, Eros puts you into that state
of epithumia, it is considered an antiquity, a drugged state, Eros drugs you, he puts you into
a love stupor, you are charmed, there is nothing you can do, Daniel, this beautiful boy, is sitting
there in this state, an angel Gabriel, you know how Gabriel was pervert before, did you,
angel Gabriel sees him, says I see you in epithumia, now for those of you who think a word of this
or Hebrew, you're wrong, this is pure idiomatic Greek, Greek concepts, epithumia is not Hebrew,
it has nothing to do with Hebrew, it is an old, old, old pre-proto Hebrew concept, epithumia,
why, because there's Mycenaean Greeks were big into the thumos and what is your thumos,
my thumos, they had all those queens and those queens were big on that, chest talk, chest talk,
epithumia, look what burns inside me, it's my epithumia, that's how he gets Daniel, that's
how he finds Daniel, okay, so let's go back to the passage, yeah, just a couple of things here
to point out, yeah, and he says, so you know, take to, take in mind the things that I'm going to tell
you, you know, and look at, there's this thing coming, it's 70 heptamads, yeah, 70 groups of seven,
a lot of people translate this as a week because we're, we like to read things in the text that
aren't literally there, right, yeah, so anyway, this is the 70 weeks that all the evangelicals get
all aroused about, yeah, I want you to look at the very bottom line, Tuchrisai, yeah, there's that
Christing, there's that Christing of the Holy One, yeah, and that Sunnae Seis, right, in Nosei,
that closeness, I don't know if you noticed it, but in that first, in that first set of verses,
if you go back, you find, it's okay, if you go back, sorry, Tuchri, we're going to bust forward
because we're losing time, if you look at it, you'll find that the king wants the kids to have
gnosis, gnosis, so for those of you understanding the gnosis and tracking the gnosis, that's what
the king wants the children to be able to enter, that's why Jesus is with that kid, teaching him
the mystery, and Pseudo-Clement, yeah, love it, teaching him the mystery, yeah, do you see,
entering the gnosis, entering the gnosis, did you know it was perverted, did you know it was
perverted, it's getting undeniable with all these eunuchs, you know what I mean, it's getting
undeniable, let's go on, let's go on, I'm gonna have to, yep, let's go ahead and do these,
look, I just wanted you to see Hopto, I'm gonna skip through these real quick, you can slow them
down later, if you want to take a look, go on, look at this, this is just that coming together,
that coming together, go ahead, the next one, yeah, yeah, more derivation from the verb Sunniyemi,
right, Sunniyemi, that's that coming together, let's keep going, Sumbino, you can talk about this
joining, excellent, another passage, yes, brilliant, okay, now watch this, verse 27,
yeah, he's going to, what, he's gonna establish some kind of diathake, what is a diathake,
now stop right there, pull it down, people will say covenant, covenant, praise Jesus, covenant
theology, right, no, no, you people have no clue, what is that word in Greek, bring it, bring up the
next one, look at this, what is a diathake, a disposition of property by will or testament,
look at Roman numeral number two, high aporetoi diathake, look at that, look at that, what are
those mystic deposits on which the common wheel depended, oracles given by a diathetes, next
one down is diathetes, what is that, one who arranges or sets an order, and what is the example
here in Herodotus, yeah, Museus' oracles, now prophets, that's why we're talking prophets
in these texts, didn't you see in that paragraph before, it said he was gonna reestablish the
prophecy, yeah, we're in that place, you can't get the prophecy without naked eunuchs, you can't,
you can't, what does eremoho mean, this angel comes in and pushes this kid into the desert,
he pushes him into the wilderness, boom, what does that mean, eremoho, to be stripped naked,
whoo, insolitude, isn't that something, to be stripped naked, to enter that place,
yeah, or everyone and everything's looking at you, eremoho, to enter into that world,
to enter into that world, do you see the language itself is the language of the initiation,
it's gorgeous mystery, didn't Paul tell you, come here Paul, come here, no, it's okay,
put your hands down, I'm not gonna do, I'm not gonna do anything, just chill out, put your hands
down, just tell the people Paul, just tell the people Saint Paul, tell them it's the mystery,
operation, the mystery, you know it, you know what's going on Paul, take your
vibrant man, shut up, go sit down, next to you, so let's hit another couple of texts here,
what we're up to this one, I just want to keep, we've got to get to a certain place, go ahead,
put that one up, yeah, and what is this aporetos, what is this aporetos, what are these hidden,
what are these hidden mysteries, what are these hidden oracles, these things that we should be
doing that Daniel is involved in, look they're things not to be spoken, they're secret,
they're sacred things, ineffable or secret, look at, they give us a, oh my goodness, look at the
Goace, you see that under B, Roman numeral number two, B, Goace, what is a Goace, a Goace is a
magician, sorcerer, Jesus was a Goace, right, what is that, a man of mystery, when it says mystery,
it doesn't mean, you don't know, it means mystery is in the operation, the execution of a mystery
right, right, of a mystery right, there's one more surprise though at the bottom of that one, pull
that, pull up that one again, everybody look down, take off, take 10th initiation, look at five,
ta aporetos equals ta adoya, let me see the folks so I can tell them what adoya are,
adoya was translated, you know the Greeks walked over to the Romans and the Romans,
Greeks pointed and they said adoya and the Romans pointed at the same place,
it said pudinda, pudinda, that's your place of shame, bro, that's your place of shame,
cover up your pudinda, bro, right, those are the hidden parts, those are the hidden parts,
lady parts, man parts, it doesn't matter, parts, parts, right, hermaphrodite parts,
right, it doesn't matter, parts, cover up those parts, yeah, so wait a minute, these oracles that
are unutterable or unutterable because they have something to do with sex, yes, adoya are genitalia,
right, these are the oracular voices that are achieved by the activation of the genitalia,
the aporia, shh, the aporia, the aporia, don't say anything about it, right, now you know,
Mark, he's going to take that section of the gospel out, right, that talks about it, it's just
too much, right, this is something that you're going to scandalize, listen to what the head,
the head honcho said, the head trafficker said, he said you're going to scandalize us,
you're going to scandalize us, I tell you that the arrest warrant is getting longer and longer,
you know what I mean, we've got them down, this is pure racketeering, this is pure racketeering,
Jesus, the pirate, eunuch making, I wonder how many, how many eunuchs did Jesus make,
let's make it pull on, do you think Jesus made a few eunuchs, a lot of eunuchs or maybe eunuch
crazy, maybe he was just making them left and right, maybe that was part of the problem, right,
I mean we see at least a couple of them, the young boys and the in the cemeteries that are nude,
we see those guys, lots of eunuch boys, okay let's go back to our passage, I want to give you
guys just a couple of things, go ahead, remember for those of you who think now come on, this
delugma, this thing that we're translating is abomination, right, filthiness, this filthiness,
you're thinking this has nothing to do with little boys and having sex, run that clip again,
please, the abominations, we need to see that one more time. Now the subject of today's study
ah has an ominous sounding title, it is a very serious subject,
what is the abomination of desolation. The abomination of desolation, abomination of
desolation, the abomination of desolation, abomination of desolation, the abomination of
desolation, the abomination of desolation, the abomination of desolation, the abomination of
of desolation that desolation is the wilderness air remoses that place where you envision the
God that is where the abomination is it is that place where you envision the God fire the drug
it'll be established it'll be established as the proper form an older form of worship in the
he had on in the temple as the proper form of worship what does that have to do with intercourse
you being too dirty with Jesus and his boy and this thing about the abominations what is that
let's look let's look kitties let's look go ahead
she lady babelon has a golden cup in her hand and what is in that cup the abominations
and the off runnings of her poor nea of her intercourse of her temple worship and right and
on her forehead is a name and what is that name musterion musterion she is the mother
porno the mother of those prostitutive acts yes and i saw her
what is she she is wasted wasted high from the blood of the holy oh that cup is full of the
abominations the delugma that is full of her abominations of her sex act
now you think you wonder to yourself the reestablishment of this right is the end of
everything reestablishment of this right is the end of everything interesting what incredible fear
what incredible fear they had of this apparently enigmatic and amazing mystery performance
yes yes and now you know now you know why we have to get there with daniel if you want to have vision
you've got to go through that eunuch that good looking eunuch right and you have to bring that
eunuch to the place to the place of the eremon to the eremosis you've got to bring him there
and when he's in that place you'll have vision and that is what runs empires right these potentates
whether they're masculine or feminine ladies don't get all don't get all you know self righteous
because you're the ones who figure this stuff all out yeah it's all from feminine medicine
fingerprints are all over it it's all female medicine this is your art these sorcerers are
your sorcerers so does it make sense that you ladies would want to possess castrated boys
who can create vision yeah yeah castrated boys who can create vision you didn't think the great
mother frigy and mother you didn't think she cut off attis's testicles for no reason did you
right um this is artisanry this is craftsmanship this is brilliant what they're doing to the human
body is fantastic and the tax the tax reflect a level of technical skill level of technical skill
that is certainly beyond I don't believe we would have an ability in the modern world to
reproduce these rights properly I don't believe we'd be able to simply just based on the pharmacology
just based on the pharmacology right what a world it would be to open the water of life
right and to increase our age and to create to create the medusa again and to bring that
transition why is a world that we hunger for that transition to the bachic that transition
from the masculine to the feminine turn me into a woman what does that mean what does it mean when
a man cries ololuzzo alleladzo eleladze that's the hallelujah before the hallelujah and it was a
hallelujah yelled by somebody who's being transformed from a male into a female
yeah the Christ this is fantastic this is gorgeous the chemistry here it's just I don't know why people
don't don't want to take it up let's go we got a few more I got a couple more slides here I just
want to show you they're not slides now you know I'm 170 ere mo oh right right look at that to strip
bear you want to become aromatic you get stripped bear what is that deluma look at this well
well this is not what you're going to think it is what is that abomination for all the guys
yelling abomination and by the way I've never heard a person ever teach this properly ever
you've been lied to if you've ever heard anything about abomination of desolation you have been lied
to this is his steve his seek yes right a lexicographer ancient lexicographer okay
and what does he give us little hints into here that the Delug me I are now see I
they are now see I and you'll recognize in English take it down the warden nausea
it's where we get nausea what happens when you're nauseous you will chow what is causing
your sickness right and you bring that right that thing that comes out of you imagine a cup of it
now imagine a cup of it from her fornication that stuff that is ejected out right that which is
a cathartic which has been purged it contains right it contains that power and it contains that
pharmacological uh genie in it love it love this love it let's keep going
nausea sickness yeah notice look at number two those victorians
yes you can see them their faces would crack if they if you force them to show you the filth
that comes from the great harlot yes I think that would kill every british victorian scholar of
classics who ever lived I think it would I think it would I think the very thought of it would kill
we wouldn't have to even bring it in and show them they just kill them yeah it's just thinking about
next one please yep that's good oh well here um yeah here's our abomination right as of an idol
notice they've got to throw that in which is hilarious okay keep going because performing
idolatry and having sex with the same one anyway anywho hot on the ideated yeah it's this is Jesus
now right this is our this is our guy who knows about the ejections of the great harlot right
and he knows about castrating children and people are yelling at him for getting touchy
the delugma of the ere mosos this abomination of entering the singular solitary nudity
have you ever been an ere mosos have you ever been you know an angel can show you that
an angel can take you there it's a place where you get vision it's a place where you get vision
so now you're starting to think look everybody's been here a while this is satanic initiation
everybody's been here for a while we've all you know been wondering where this thing is going
and we're beginning to see this kind of ship emerge through the fog we're seeing the ship
emerge to the fog and we're beginning to think i could ride in that ship i could become a member
that i could jump onto it i could sail off into the fog and that ship that is what the mystery is
right something performed mystery is not faith paul shut up never confuses the two never you
can't mystery is not faith and that's why everybody here who believes the fairy tale
will immediately be caught unawares because the faith is not the operation of your mystery
the faith is not the operation of your mystery yeah yeah that faith is a proof it's a seal
it's a proof that you engage it's not the actual performance of and this is a problem paul shut
up he's trying to make this conversion right trying to do it it's a form of indoctrination
and it's it's very unflattering by the way people say paul is the greatest writer in the new test
blah blah he's so smart bull bull bull yeah yeah he's just common yeah there's nothing impressive
about it you can see a lot more impressive from hardcore pagans so don't don't think that paul
is mr smarty smart right he may be taking his drugs full of that viper venom so he's immune
all right but we're not here to bash you shut up and sit down
go bring us up the next text look at this people the aces what is that
i just want you to notice that it is paired here with orex ace below epithomia these are the drives
these are the drives so that angel is dealing with daniel with daniel at the level of the drives
right orex is con conation a longing for something that's comes from kono konari and land to want
i am taking i am desiring i am wanting good how about this what is this sunet tiros this is what
they want this is what that sunetes is daniel and the angel have a have a relationship that is
that of the sunet tiros the hetaira well hetaira they used to translate as
mistress hetaira is your mistress so it's using the same route to indicate the relationship is
that is one of lovers yeah and don't be surprised you saw hercules with his boy everywhere he's
leading around you saw jesus with his little boy and he's gotten the garden right you've seen this
with the little boys this just shouldn't shouldn't amaze you the thing that you haven't seen is the
women with the little boys right so we've got nothing to balance it we've got nothing to balance
hence the necessity of the transformation yeah this is gorgeous i love this stuff okay last i think
i have one more um well no not that one put up put up that one yep no that was it okay
so uh when we look at the big picture of the activation of the mystery
and we're looking at the actual practice of the mystery where we need to start forming a
vocabulary around it so that when somebody says abomination of desolation um that means something
right now do you sitting there abomination desolation doesn't mean anything that phrase doesn't
mean you can hear preachers throw that thing around none of them knows what it means none of them if
they knew it would make them even more faithful right but they follow the fairy tale they follow
the fairy tale so they can't grasp right it's the same thing that drove the classics department
the university of wisconsin to say the romans just wouldn't do such a thing i'm talking about drugs
the romans just wouldn't do such a thing right total how could you not of all the drugs that
we brought before us of all the drugs that you've seen now you know there's you could never make
that statement you know more than a classicist who is a professor that nine is just a professor
she was the head of my department she was the head of the department yes saint andrew's educated
yes and she didn't know she didn't know she had never seen you mean in all your time
in all your time of reading the iliad you never saw that they were using drugs did all did we
all miss the eunuch you know i was talking to the devil i was talking to the devil asking him
well you're not even gonna see the eunuch he says you didn't even see the eunuch
oh my god how do we miss these people how do we miss these things where's all this going
you don't know this world and people will sit up in front of you and will tell you
they will tell you this is how it is experts abomination of desolation abomination i defy you
to tell me what that is based upon what preachers priests and holy people say new testament scholars
they suck too yeah yeah what are these offerings what are these offerings what are these things that
are vomited forth these unclean things that she brings up in her cup from her poor naya from
her poor naya your history was built upon this right and daniel is a part of it through the
meads through the meads you cannot enter that kingdom without cutting off your own testicles
wow that's something okay okay a more circumspect now we've got to in the future from now on we're
going to start mounting our case because we've got the indictment is going to come down we know
that the transdimensional grand jury found that jesus's crimes are to be prosecuted so we're ready
to go we're ready to go they voted to prosecute so we have to be building a case now and in
order to do that we're going to have to take back these texts i gave you tonight as you're
sitting here and i respect your time all of you who are listening got tremendous respect
and i don't want to waste your time so i'm just going to say it like it is we need to kick down
the door of the temple and we need to take back these texts these are ours that one that i read
to you tonight that was buried that was buried by a religious sect in the 10th and 11th centuries
nine ninth and 10th and 11th centuries who buried this text they did not want you
understanding what was going on now maybe they did it from their own ignorance right and you
know you can't make a back translation without screwing things up right it just doesn't work
in effect they tried to do what the Babylonians did with the tower it tries to do it backwards
route it through Hebrew and it didn't work historically cronus saturn says no no don't
work don't work that way we're bound to time we're bound to time and before java was this mystery
now stop i just said the mystery produced everything do you remember in the garden
do you remember what we do we have our eyes opened and we end up stripped naked
welcome to the right and he'll say
