I let that liquor drown my days Now I'm taking my last ride
I paid the highest price you can pay And I'm on my way to Potter's Field
Potter's Grave is where I'll be To rest until the end of time
For all eternity
Welcome back to the Lady Babylon. This is Satanic Initiation and you guys are in for it tonight.
We've got to know the fresh text, something that you're not going to get out there anywhere else.
Something that you're not going to run into, but it's full of cult.
Tonight's text is crammed with cult, looking right into the eyes, those burning eyes of cult.
We're going to love this, and we have a little clip that was put together to celebrate your audience interaction.
I like this format. I like that we're able to converse like this, and it's important to me to keep it up.
I want you to enjoy tonight and welcome to Lady Babylon, Satanic Initiation.
Let's start off right away with the few minutes that we've got together.
I just want to ramp up this little video that's coming up.
I want you to take a look at this. We look for meaning in the world.
And so we look through your interaction to see the meaning and to construct the message.
Here's a bit that has been brought to you by Chewie. Chewie, thank you very much. Hit it.
I bet that Mike stinks. What are we smelling? He has lost about the pharmacological knowledge.
I'd like some good plant drugs. It is like we are in a cosmic matrix womb.
Vatican reptile time travelers. Naked dinner? He's coming back with a sword and a golden bra.
Talk about roleplaying. You circumcised Jesus? Wait, the boy was the one that Jesus was pondering?
You think Jesus' lips were still purple when he was on the cross? I'm sure she'd love to know that.
That's right, God, you devilishly holy. She was way more than Barbie could ever be.
She always clothed in the sun. Sadder is below the bright moon tonight.
If you ever have to go to jail, you can stick your suboxons up there and have money too.
Oh, gee, is it Donna's the Divine Fallon? Death by a smooth smooth.
Only here could you have discussions like that. Thank you very much, everybody, for giving what you feel and thank.
And I appreciate all of the comments. Negative, positive, they both fire me up. So thank you very much.
Let's proceed forward with the material for today. Today I want to bring you a little bit of a text that is normally ignored.
But before I do, I want to preface it by saying, by giving a shout out, a shout out to Professor Kirsten D.
Who is working on the execration tablets or texts, the execration texts, curse tablets, that kind of thing.
And different various incendiary accoutrement of magic.
She also discusses the PGM and she said something. She said something that just gave me joyous rapture.
She said, what's most important is that you go back to the original. You really don't understand it, reading it in translation.
You have to go back to the original. So I was so delighted to hear that.
Dr. Kirsten D. Thank you so much for affirming what I too have seen.
There are sources out there. There are sources out there.
And if you will come along with me tonight as the ship is landing and we're getting there into that time, where are we going tonight?
Tonight we're going Bronze Age. We're going Bronze Age.
So be ready for it. It's a little bit rough and tumble. It's gorgeous.
But we're going to get the mystery straight on in.
Chewie, pull us up our first text, please. Tonight I'm very proud to present to you.
And I'm just going to show it to you. Take it down, Chewie. And I'll explain it to you.
Go ahead, take it down.
What this is is a text called the Orphic Argonautica.
And it's typically grouped in with other Orphic works like the hymns.
And so it's a marvelous text replicating for you that experience, that Bronze Age experience.
And I took you tonight. I said, where can I take my congregation?
Where can I take them? I have to take them to the deep things.
We have to go to the deep things of Satan. It's where we find all of our power. Fantastic.
So let's go there. Let's go there to this Saturnian rush.
And let's see what she says in the text. What kind of text is this?
Well, this is the part of the text that talks about Medea as the guardian of the gate.
Medea is the guardian who stands at the gate. She is the way.
She is the way. Do you hear me? Do you hear me? She is the way.
That's what the text says. Let's go dip into that dirt that Kirsten D was so rapturous for.
Let's dig into that dirt and see what we can find. Bring up that text.
I'm just going to give you a translation of this. Yeah, here we go.
It's for this reason, he says, that right there at the entryway to the gates, there's this guard.
And she's a queen. She's so far. See.
She stirs up the fire. She brings that brilliance of the fire.
She stands there. Who is this? This is the one the Kalkians call Artemis.
They call. They worship her even today. They worship her as she who stands by the gateway.
She is the Cala Dodromon. The what? The Cala Dodromon.
What is it? Take it down to me. What is the Cala Dodromon?
Yeah, this is the one who guards the way with the sharp, shrill, oracular voice.
Okay. Okay. I see that. We're already into the Bacchic cult.
You ready? What else are we going to do here? We're going to see a priestess here.
I want to show you a priestess tonight. It's really about that form.
Bring up that text again. She would be fantastic, right?
So the Kalkians worship her and she is Danae.
She's awful, horrendous, terrifying for a mortal to see and terrifying for a mortal to hear,
except for the person who enters into the initiation.
The person who knows the Bacchic implements of purgation.
Take it down. The Bacchic implements of purgation.
These are the Katharama. These are the filthy impurities that the goddess who is the poison poor
is going to supply you with a cure for.
She's going to wash away your filth.
Do you understand where we are? Okay. Right. We all stepped out of the ship a little bit fast.
Okay. Here she is. It's kind of scary, but okay. She stands at the gateway to the entrance of this great way.
Yes. She stands at the entrance of the way.
Let's see who she is. Let's keep our text coming, Chewie. Fantastic.
And for the person who enters into these purifications, right, that person, she is not terrible to see.
What is she? What is she hiding? What's so ever things says the text?
What's so ever things are these purifications? These, the leader of the initiation.
She who is that force to expel the profane.
She guards it. She keeps the way. She is the Aino lejes media.
She is the media of the terrifying bed.
She stands there with her far seeing gaze and is able to protect the way they call her Artemis, the Colchians who do Colchians, the Colchians who were using the burning purple.
These are the people who are establishing the worship that you just saw. They are worshiping a bronze age woman.
She is actively called the one I saw. She is actively called the impress, the impress.
Okay, thank cities with big stones, cities with big stones, cyclopean.
This empire is vast and stretches all the way from Babylonia all the way over to the pillars of Heracles and beyond.
Fantastic. Who is this impress? One more time with the text. We're just taking this text slowly.
Boom. Okay, there we go. And what is she with? She's with her kutaisin kurais.
She's with her Saitin maidens. These are these Scythians.
Scythian girls that were her experts in drugs.
Yeah, and what do they say? Nobody. Nobody gets over, intrudes into this way.
Nobody steps over that threshold. It doesn't matter if they're a foreigner or if they're a local.
Nobody gets across her threshold for she stands there, a theos.
I want you to look at that for my Greek students. Look at that second or last line.
Notice the theos in there. Dene, the adjective being in the feminine with theos.
Do you see that? Theos, the word for God. Flash this up about why it's so important.
Why is it so important? The word. Yes, the word of God.
These are those logoi that we're looking for for those of you with ears to hear.
That Scythian influence is pushing the throne. Do you have the Asterian?
Do you have the Asterian? Because these are the conversations they're having.
Do you have the Asterian? Of course I do. Yes. All right.
We're polythronic. You bring the person up to a polythronic state of ecstasy.
A polythronic state of ecstasy. Dear Christianity. Dear Judaism.
Your beliefs and practices are a corruption of the original Bronze Age mystery
that involves sex, drugs and vision. Who am I? I'm the guy who reads the text.
Bring it up. Let's finish it off. What else? What else is with her?
She completely, this goddess, this terrible goddess, this terrible God Empress.
What does she do? She maintains that way entirely.
How? She breathes upon her. Fire-eyed dogs. Mania. Lyssa. She gives them Lyssa.
She gives them Lyssa. Who are these dogs? Remember Heracles has dogs.
And Heracles dogs have purple lips. Do you know why they have purple lips?
Because they are following the purple. Yeah. They are called Phoenician dogs.
Because they follow the purple. Yeah. They have those purple lips. Fantastic.
And let's take a look now. Okay. I just read you guys the text.
That's a quick translation. And now I want you to look at a couple of words that will anchor us into the past in a way that no professor can BS their way out of.
You got no theories here. I got no ideas. I don't care to waste your time. You know that.
What I care about is letting the source get to you. I'm a librarian, right? That's what we do.
Well, welcome to hell. Fantastic. Pull up the first after my source there.
Yeah. I just want you to look. Can you blow that up, Chewie?
Yeah. I just want you to look at the brightness, the glow, the effervescence, the flash of lightning.
This is what that Artemis controls. This is what she controls.
Look at the very last line and you'll notice. Oh, look, theocritous. Nice, nice, Hellenistic stuff. Love that stuff.
What is he doing? He's using it for love. He's using this flame for love. Fantastic. Let's go to the next.
Let's get a little bit deeper. Do you want to know who this is? This is a Wanasa or Anasa.
If you de-digamify it, this is a Mycenaean word. Where are we talking about now with the Mycenaean stuff?
This can be as early as 1600, 1800 BC. Fantastic. We're in an area now that I feel a little bit more comfortable with where we've landed.
And look at what this means. Look at this. Oh, what is this? See the diagram on the front of that thing right there?
Oh, that's gorgeous. A queen, right? A lady. It's addressed to a goddess up until what? Up until Pindar.
So until Pindar, it's how you refer to goddesses. Now, I know we are not used to worshiping women.
I know our society, much the contrary, does everything it can to keep a segment of us from completely oppressing women.
Yes, yes. We do not have in the modern world the concept of the Wanasa.
We do not have that great Empress who is worshiped. He is very specific.
This Orphic who is writing this is very specific and says she is worshiped today. She is worshiped today.
Medea, a woman of the Bronze Age, was worshiped while she was alive as the goddess Artemis.
Okay, bring us Artemis. Let's see in the next slide. Let's see what we can make of her. Who is this Artemis? Who is this Artemis?
Yeah, well, first of all, let's go to the next one. That's for the initiations. No, one more.
Yeah, those are all our initiation words. Fantastic. There's Lyssa. Here's the madness, people. Look, look, look, look.
Here's the madness that she brings. Wait, what? Yes, she is the one to be feared. It is her bed that brings fury.
They say it's the rabies of dogs. Have you ever seen a dog on a rabid? Have you ever seen one of Hercules, dogs, rabid?
Yeah, imagine. Imagine just a skin of fur. Just a skin of fur and a madman. And a madman. Fantastic. Lyssa.
Rabies. Give us the Artemis, please. Oh, here's a nice, by the way, here's a nice quote.
From the feet up the crown of the head steals the spasm, the stab of Lyssa, eye, the scorpion sting.
You didn't know that these things were associated with drugs until I told you they were. Now you're going to start knowing.
You're going to start noticing drugs more and more and more. Remember, it's those Cretans. They're the ones that are working on the drugs that will allow you to ejaculate scorpion and snake film.
Have you ever ejaculated scorpion and snake film? You have if you're Cretan and you're part of the cult.
Let's go to Artemis. Let's go to Artemis. Pull us in, Chewie. Here. Oh, we're having a little bit of trouble.
I told you to get these navigation charts with these imperial. Oh, this is beautiful. Pull down the Satanic initiation. Fantastic.
Look at this, guys. And now we'll just work our way down. Artemis. Artemis. Notice what they have at the bottom.
They have Artemis equals Elythia. Right? Who is Elythia? Who is the Elythia? She is the one. Well, it's uncertain.
Derived from, we don't know what it's derived from, but we know we have Artemis and Artemis. And Artemis is somebody who kills for a living.
It could be that because she is a huntress. She is a huntress, somebody who kills for a calling. Yeah, kills for a calling.
Do you know what can be your calling to kill in antiquity? Isn't that interesting? Fantastic. Let's go under Artemis.
Yep. Underneath her. What happens if you take that name Artemis? Play with it a little bit. You can either get a killer or you can get a healer. Strangely enough.
From that route, you can get safety and you can get death. Safety and death. Do you remember what Medea was doing?
Why does it say that Medea was made that princess, that priestess? Why does it say that she was made that one who had the right of killing a stranger?
When you hand somebody over to decay, to justice, they are subject to she who has the power to kill. Yes. Yeah. Fantastic.
If you can hear within that, the principles that those who create a democracy set may resonate. It does with me.
I think we're watching it. Let's go to the next one. Artemisia. Artemisia back. I think we're up one. Yeah, up one. Yeah, Artemisia. What is it?
Wormwood. Oh, it's just a plant. You know, Artemisia absintheum, right? No problem there. But look what we have here at the very bottom.
Ambrosia. You realize we just took a little detour down a bunch of several drugs, right? They're using these as drugs and the ritual concept of a communion.
Ambrosia. That is a substance that will give you ionic life. Ionic life. You see how the mystery is set up? It is the ambrosia that makes the poison pour her, pour who she is.
Let's go back. We're following the first Christ, people. Go ahead, under the ambrosia. Yeah, one more. Here's her title and I just want you to notice what she does.
She's involved in parturition, right? Goddess of childbirth. You will be under the influence when you come to the place that you will be giving.
You take it down that you will be giving your child to the world. When it comes to that time, you will be given a drug that will put you into a state where your delivery will be your orgia.
Yes, it will be that orgasmos, the introduction of life into the world. Do you see how the orgasmos works? It is a death. It is a death in which we enter only to come to life.
That is the mystery. And if you're surprised that this mystery is pioneered by a goddess who is the goddess of childbirth, it's because you have not yet been informed that we are all meeting the creator.
And she is not what most of us think she is. Fantastic. I love it. Let's see what else about this goddess. Let's keep going with the definitions.
I just want to give you a little more dirt to kick up in your face. Here's her epithet. Think of this Queen Empress who stands there at the gateway in the mystery, she who guards the way.
I am the way. When Jesus was saying I am the way, he was not the first human being to do so, nor was it original, nor was it unknown to the ears of the people hearing it when he was saying I am the way.
They knew he's one of those mystery freaks involved in his mystery freak sex drug stuff probably associated with prostitutes, naked children in public parks at 4 a.m. Mark 1451 52 27 I got it in before 30.
So, yeah, let's keep going a little bit more vocabulary. I just want people to enjoy.
This is what we're really. This is what we, the person who is genuine, right to to the world. This goddess seems frightening.
And rightly so, to those who were born again, who know these implements of Bacchus, who know these implements of Bacchus, keep thinking quantum.
Those are the ones, right? Notice that what is Diana doing directly associated with Bacchus?
Through Medea, Diana and Bacchus have life. The process is Bacchic worship. And for those of you from Judaism, those of you who know the temple, those of you who stood at the wailing wall, those of you who know what medieval historians teach,
it was she who started your rights, your heritage, your practice goes back to a Bronze Age impress who brought the voice of God.
Yes. And when I say God, I mean Medea. I mean Artemis. Yeah, I mean Bacchus. Fantastic. Let's go to one more word.
I've got one more after that. Yeah, please. Yeah, here are the dogs that we're looking at. And I just want you to notice what are the associations of dogs.
This is how this.
Whoops. That was an asteroid. Another one. Tie fighter. Perhaps. Yeah, we good. I don't know. I need more tea.
Who are the scula case? You want to know who, you know, those of you who are interested in magic, and I know that you're out there.
I know you're amassing and a knowledge and esoteric knowledge that you want to practice instead of just reading and studying about. Yes. Yes.
If you don't find this figure, if you don't read these signs, if you don't break this seal, you got nothing.
Yeah. What is that hound doing? That hound is guarding away. That hound has fire in their eyes. Yeah. And they possess the madness, the madness that comes from the dark star.
They possess the madness of the light bringer. Fantastic. What do they call her? They call her Lucifer. Lucifer.
For those of you who hear Lucifer, you are exactly in the right place. Before there was a Lucifer, there was a Lucifer.
Yeah. So you can say that the origins of Judaism, Christianity and Islam are from Satan. They are Satanic or Saturnian or Satuarnan.
Fantastic. The linguistics is just gorgeous, isn't it? But your religions that you practice are all Satanic. You are following Judaism.
And by that I mean Judaism, Islam, Christianity. Your religions are based on a Saturnian Satanic initiation created by a Bronze Age woman.
Let's bring up that last text. I just want to flash this up. This treat that I want to bring to you. We've talked before about Dracontius and I just want to pull him up. He's a dead Christian many, many centuries ago. He smells a little bit. I'm sorry.
Blow the gas in the wind, right? Nobody got spanked. People have been asking me to spank people here. Let's spank him.
Now, I think he was just pretending. Is it true? Is it true that you were a Christian? What? Yes, no?
Oh, when you feel the pain, you get that madness. Then you want it. Then you're like, oh, get me more. Yes. Yes, you said you were a Christian, but you had so much pagan in you.
Right? This is the same kind of thing we go through at the Transdimensional Agency. This is the same thing we go through with everybody who gets involved.
Next thing, you know, you send somebody out there like Cyprian. He's going to come back with his buttocks full of venom and he's going to be dragging prostitutes out of a cemetery.
Hey, I'm sorry. I repent. I repent in my ways. Right? Oh, God, the mess is out. We can't let this get out, people.
We have to have some kind of court order to keep this Transdimensional Information shut just for now, before trial. Fantastic.
Let's go to this. I want to give you Dracontius. Here, Dracontius. Here it is. Oh, don't you love? I just want to read you a couple of lines.
I just want to read you a couple of lines. It kills my soul to make common for you the things that are so abominable, things done by the art of a virgin.
A virgin who makes God's captive, a virgin who uses the elements of virgin who causes nature to serve her, a girl.
She's the one who manipulates the stars of the pole and the course of the sun and the stars, the constellations. She's the one who does this.
With her mind, it's her decision that makes this way. It's a woman's decision that creates the universe around you tonight. Take it down tonight.
Tonight on Satanic Initiation, I want to introduce you to the muse, the creator, the one who sings the world into existence.
That is the Medwa. That is the Artemis. Go back. Go back for me. What else? What does she do?
She brings the lightning, man. She brings that thunder, right? These are the things that are abominable that she does when she orders the ether around you.
Hang on for the physics. Hang on. She's the one who orders the ether to drop fire, to drop fire.
Those of you with the Asterian, I want you to thank as you're seated on that devil's throne.
But as you're seated on that devil's throne, I want you to thank to take the image of the ether from the invisible and to make it visible to yourself.
From this ether, she brings fire. This is contrary to the laws of nature. Bring us back that quote again, Chewie. Fantastic.
What happens? Her voice penetrates. When all of this is going on, her voice penetrates the wind.
And what does it do? What does it do? It makes things living and it makes things dead. The power that we're talking about.
Insha'Allah. This power is the power to penetrate the cosmos. The power to create and destroy.
And it is in the hands of a woman. And that woman becomes a god. Fantastic. Are you there? The orgia. Do you see?
Do you see in these events, these orgies, these cults, these rituals? Do you see what happens? Do you see why Jehovah yesterday was yelling at us and saying,
Get my wife out of here. Get out of here. Yes, I'm Jehovah. I'm Jehovah. Get out of here. I hate women. I'm Jehovah.
Call me Yahweh. Don't say my name. Did you say my name? Did you say my name?
Yeah. Yeah. We were there with Him. What did He say? Dad? What's up, Dad? Tell me, Dad, what's your, what's your dictate?
Oh, son. I'm going to tell you, I just kicked out your mother. You know? And I want you to clean up the temple. Because I know what they're doing in the temple.
The women are telespherizing. And the men are getting telespherized. Wait, what? What, Daddy? What are the bad people doing in the temple of Jehovah?
In the temple of Jehovah. They are performing the rites. These disgusting, sex-addicted perverts with their drugs.
Yes. Do you see where the face of hatred comes from for the great Queen Aphrodite? Do you see why the Romans said, We are the sons and daughters of Venus, the morning star?
Do you see why Julius Caesar himself walked into the temple of Venus Genetrix and put there a portrait from a famous Greek artist of Medea?
Do you see why the people of Rome so loved the impress?
Yes. Yes. Because you can't have the two together. You cannot have Jehovah and Aphrodite. You cannot. You cannot. It's so deep that the very Sophia that you will base your scriptures on is an Aphrodisiac.
Did you say it? What? Yeah, it's a scheme of Aphrodisia. Oh, wow. Do you mean my sex organs are here for a reason? Do you think that there's some way that this whole universe could make sense like a song, like the song of a great singer pulled right from the event horizon of a black star?
Oh, God. This is Lady Babylon. Thank you for coming tonight. It is an honor and a privilege, and I appreciate your 40 minutes. Hail Satan.
To me on Sunday, Scola Breaker.
