I let that liquor drown my days. Now I'm taking my last ride. I paid the highest price you can pay.
I'm on my way to Potter's Field. The Palmer's Grave is where I'll be to rest until the end of time for all eternity.
Thank you for your patience tonight. Welcome back to Lady Babylon Satanic Initiation. We have got for you a place that we're just going to go and have a good time then.
We're going to find this spot. We're going to mellow out. We're going to enter that antiquity and we're going to do that through this hypnotic song.
I love it. Tonight you're in for a real treat on Lady Babylon.
I'm not going to waste your time but I am going to announce that Gnostic Informant is downloading or uploading I should say.
Gnostic Informant is uploading his fantastic Medea that I have not yet seen. I've heard a clip and it sounds just gorgeous.
So thank you. Thank you Gnostic for that. Tonight I don't want to waste any of your time because we're already blasted off late here.
And I want to value what you have to give. And so tonight as we sit on that throne as we start going in to see what the real mystery is.
Because remember you perverts didn't just come here for fun. This is an investigation. We have to have some evidence and some facts that we're looking at.
And tonight we're going to invade that most intimate of spaces. We're going to enter into that sacred space of Aphrodite.
And as usual Chewie has put together a mesmerizing video to plant within you the correct images now that you are seated on the throne.
Now that you are seated on the throne. Chewie hit it.
One poison, two people, one flame. One poison, two people, one flame.
This is the recipe for all of ancient magic. The Orphics realized that Eros is that central flame of the cosmos.
By the cosmos I don't mean the universe. I mean the organization of the invisible around you. That organization which you and I call nature.
She is that beauty. She is that beauty. Fantastic. Fantastic. I want to start out tonight.
And I want to just go witness some beauty and I'm going to give you some text that you know we're dragging in another one of these drugged out just strung out visionary prophets from the Bible.
And so tonight we've got is Naum. Naum and you say who's Naum. I'm going to introduce you to Naum. You haven't met him.
Guarantee even if you're sitting in a seminary right now. You haven't met Naum. Yeah. Fantastic. Who is this Naum?
It's another dirty prophet having visions. Let's see some of that dirtiness come through, some of that delugma, some of that pollution.
Let's see that come through. Chewie hit us with that first start chart. Yeah. Fantastic. I just want to give you this.
Look, look, look, look, look. This is our invocation. Are you ready? Verse eight here. This is gorgeous.
Isn't that gorgeous? You'll find that gym and that stoned prophet because as they told you as they told you the drugs purpose is to bring out that creativity.
It is to bring it out. And what is he telling you there? He's saying, bring me, prepare a portion, prepare the sacrifice, strike the chords.
Amen. I am. She is the one whose power is in the waves. She is the one who is mistress of the sea. She is the one whose towers are water. Yeah.
Yeah. This is her. So we've, we've gone beyond now and we're at a place where we see what is behind the prophet and his prophecy.
Oh, wait a minute. You said this was about Eros and intercourse. Yes. Just wait. We don't just dive in, right? We take our time. We want that garden for those of you with ears.
We want that garden to be fragrant. We want it blown upon with that breeze. We want the fragrance, the aroma to fill the air. This is Cyprus. This is Cyprus. Do you see the healing?
Fantastic. Love it. Let's go. Chewie, take us to the next one. Next on the star chart. Yes. I wanted to throw Medea in here just so you could see, right? Who is she? She is Medea and I'm going to differ with translators here.
They used, we'll say Medea of Colchis, right? But I've seen her address directly as Colchis. So Medea or Colchis. Remember, she's the one of the many names, the Pambasilea.
Medea is the Pambasilea. When you talk about Hera and when you talk about Aphrodite and when you talk about the Virgin, when you talk about Hera and Aphrodite and the Virgin, the three that we offer the golden apple to, right?
She is each of them. She is each of them. Lady Babylon, Pambasilea, Musterion. She is the source. And in this video, I have narrated for you her activities directly from the sources as the Christ, as the Christ.
Remember, the Christ is a woman, not just the first person Christed. Think about this. Not just the first person Christed, but the person who figured out the Christing. Yeah. This is a single person, a single person through time.
If you hit us with that source again, I want us to keep going on that second one. Yeah. Who is she? Yeah. She's the daughter of EETs. And what is that third, that next word? Pharma Chistate. Pharma Chistate.
She is the most. That's a superlative Greek students. She is the most pharmaceutical. She is the most knowledgeable in drugs. She is the most.
An entire nation of people, an entire ethnic group said we are changing our identity from Arian to Mead. That's what we're going to call ourselves from now on.
And Anisekius tells us the secret of that name. And would you be surprised if it had to do with cult and it had to do with her production of the moisture? The moisture. Remember, this is Aphrodite we're talking about.
Those breezes bring that aroma and with the aroma comes the moisture. That's the moisture of life. That's the moisture of life. To drink of that moisture from that paradise is the water of life.
Wow. Wow. Okay. These people were completely out of the influence. This is amazing and good stuff. Go back, Chewie. One last time. And I just want to point out that they took the golden fleece, right?
And the Greeks call the stuff that you and I call NAFTA. They call it Medea's oil. That's what it says at the bottom. What is Medea's oil? Medea's oil is a petroleum product that is explosive, incendiary.
You can't put it out for some reason. You can throw a bucket of water on the stuff. Doesn't go out. Doesn't go out. She uses it as a weapon, as a personal weapon. Yes. And remember her name from Babylon all the way to northern Italy. All through North Africa.
Medea. Medea. This most pharmaceutical. Now I want to show you in just a second. I want to show you a little bit. Remember we were talking about the translation of the Septuagint. I'm reading from the Septuagint.
So we told you about the translation many, many centuries later into Hebrew that only has that much capacity, 8,000. You cut off a lot of that. It's just extra space. You cut off half of that because they're hypoxlegomina.
And you end up getting just a few unique words as opposed to the Greek. The Greek, which has thousands of years of active, vibrant development, generation by generation through literature, developing genres, pushing, pushing, pushing that religion onto the stage.
Yes. The dance is alone. Right. So that's the language that we're having to deal with.
Let's bring up the next text. I promised people. Yeah. Pindar. Pindar, I want you to notice something. Tell me, Pindar, can you take me to Jehovah's back room where he has his arguments with what's her name?
His wife. Can you take me there and show me Pindar? Pindar, show me. What are you saying, Pindar? Potnia. Oksotaton Beleon. She who is the queen of the sharpest arrows.
She who brought that poikilan yuga, that bird that was tied to that wheel, she brought it from Olympus. And she joined it to that wheel, this monadic bird. This is Kipraganea. This is Cyprus.
This is her. She who taught the prayers and the wisdom and the epodes to the son of Eson. That's Jason. She's the one who taught him that. In order that he might abduct, in order that he might take Medea, right?
He's going to rob her of her shame before her parents and he's going to take her off and he's going to what? He's going to see that she is linked in madness, in madness with these whips of passion.
Medea is the product of Hera, Aphrodite and Athena plotting. Yes, she is. Think about this. The universe is the result of this interaction. These forces interacting. It's gorgeous. You can't.
And this is in the, you mean this kind of stuff is in the text? Yes, it is. Go back. Go to the next text, please. I just want you to see the nafta here, right? And they give us, okay, blah, blah, blah. It has a nominative, I mean, it has a masculine, a feminine and a neuter form, right?
But again, he mentions that the Medes call, right? They call it nafta, this explosive stuff. Just wait for it. We need the nafta there. How is this woman involved with sex, drugs and explosives? What does this have to do with sex in the Bible and Jehovah yelling at his wife once again?
Bring us that conversation. Do we get that one right up next? Should we go hit that one? No, we don't need that. Hit the next one. Yeah, here we go. What happens to people according to the prophet? You're back in the prophet's shoes. Naum is his name. And you'll be surprised to find him. You'll be surprised to find him in places that are magical, as opposed to just your biblical, your biblical stuff. Right? Right? Where did I? Where did I go wrong?
Look at the top. Where did we go wrong, guys? They became weak. Why? They become weak. Why are these people weak? Who are we talking about? These are these people who live in Niva? What? What's going on? Yeah, you become weak in your body. Why? Because you have playthus porneus. Turn us off. Do you have playthus porneus? Do you have too much?
It's porneia. Yeah. When you are in the mystery and you are satirical, you have the satariasis because you've been taking the satirion. And for the last 24 hours, you have had an erection in retu that is being used in the ritual. Your body is being used.
You are taking the communion from others because everybody knows there is no mystery without Aphrodite. There is no mystery without the orgasmos. You cannot, Jehovah, take that out of the cosmos.
You cannot exile her from the cosmos. She is that mystery. And you are a frustrated, lonely God. We bring, we bring. Here's one for the, here's one for the book, the bottom of Jehovah. You feel that? You feel that? You're lying sack? Yeah. Amazing. Amazing.
Let's not follow the liars. Let's follow decay, justice. Remember, we're pagans, right? It's a pagan revival, right? We're pagans. You say, I don't act like modern pagans do. No, you don't, right? And they don't act like ancient pagans did.
Ancient pagans were trying to save. We're trying to save what they had built and to build the museums. They're trying to save society. They're not trying to rip it down, right? Okay, you've got to be pagan about this. It's those Bacchic mystery religions that we have to hunt down because they're constantly trying to overthrow us.
Yeah, it's just the way it is. You can't get Christed and not end up insane. You cannot get Christed and not end up insane. This is Naum, the prophet. Give us the next text, Chewie. This is, this has got to get lighter, right? If we're going to enter into, yeah, this is the portion of Amun. I just wanted you to see this.
This is the portion of Amun. See that second line? Last word in the line. This is his portion. What? She who inhabits those rivers. Yeah, gorgeous. And whoops, that's not the one I wanted. I wanted you guys to see. Look, tonight, technically, I've been talking a lot about languages and I've been saying something that is completely, completely going to be questioned.
Nobody's going to want to accept this. Ten years ago, I stepped forward and said, those people were all on drugs. And people said no way. And the very people who said no way are now writing books about drugs.
Shame on you people. Well, let me tell you the next thing, the next step that we've got. The next step we've got to overcome is the question of the source, the question of the source. These are Greek sources. Look on the left here. Or is that my, this way?
Look at that. Do you see how many? That's 50 words that are part of the family of one root. One root. Look at all these brothers and sisters. One root. That is the root, pharmaq, right? The root for the drug. How many ways do we have of saying drug in Greek?
You can have drug users. You can have drug dealers. You can have adulterated drugs. You can have pure drugs. You can have expensive drugs and cheap drugs. You can have drugs for medicine. You can have drugs for your brain to make, they didn't say for your brain.
They said for your mind. You can have those kind of drugs. You want to get over your melancholy. You can have drugs to regulate menstruation.
Yeah, the blood is on your hands says naum. The blood is on your hands, pagans. Yes, it is. Yes, it is naum. It is. Good. Fantastic. Let's go to the next source. We're getting hot. We're getting hot. Yeah.
I just want you to see. What do we do? I'm putting this up now. What do we do with the 50? With the 50 different words that we have there? How about Hebrew? How about Hebrew? Surely this ancient language had time to create for itself a vast vocabulary, rich vocabulary.
Oh, you know, I'm kidding. Right. What? Wait a minute. What 50? What is our definition over on the Hebrew side? What? What is this is hilarious supernatural powers? The supernatural powers used by idolaters.
Can you hear the primitive nature? The primitive nature of the Hebrew itself? And I'm talking classical Hebrew, not modern, because modern Hebrew blossomed, and it has a ton of vocabulary, independent words.
Yes. What I'm talking about is the thing that is claimed to be the source of these texts. It doesn't say the same things. I'm sorry, but the guys that broke into the temple, right? Remember, what's his name was some prophet getting blown off his head with these awful, crazy vision inducing drugs?
Who is that? Abakum? I think it was Abakum. It was one of them. And what is he? He goes into the temple. Yeah, he goes in the secret entrance and once you see all this stuff on the walls, and it's a lot of men.
And what is the Hebrew translation? It doesn't doesn't. But the Greek says they all had sex with each other. It's sex with each other.
We're talking about religion and medicine and cult, mystery, specifically, all wrapped up into one image. Fantastic. Give us another one. Give us the next text down here.
Give me that one. This is the one we'll go ahead. I just want you to see. Look, what did she teach him? She taught him the Aphrodite. She taught this guy Yasun, right? She taught Jesus. What does she teach Jesus? She taught him in the ways of the drugs of the drugs.
This dude had to get Christed, right? Look at he had to get Christed by Medea. And on the second to last line, you see the second word, there it is again. People take it down to people. I have showed you Christ over and over and over and over again in the classical extra biblical sources.
This is him. This is enough for a case. When we go back to that Garden of Gethsemane, and I don't know how many minutes in we are, somebody click the stopwatch, but I want you to, oh, there it is, 25, 25. Jesus was arrested in a public park with a naked boy.
Jesus was arrested in a public park with a naked boy. Every time we bring him to the stand, his lawyer is going to object and try to shut us up because they don't want Christing brought into the court.
And let me tell you what Christing is, ladies and gentlemen of the jury. Christing is when you apply those drugs that blast your mind. They started with the Scythians who were using them.
And the culture is the one declaring Medea is our Queen, our Pambasilea. And everything that she says, her prophecies will lay out a timeline that will show the world its own progression from which the world can never turn.
When she returns, so will the end.
Oh, wow. Lady Babylon.
That is impressive. That is impressive. You mean all of these Greeks walked around with this crazy, crazy adoration for this one woman.
Yeah, they did. They did. I promised you intercourse. I lured you in. You came in because you could smell the island. You could smell the island at a distance.
You knew what was coming. You knew you would have some sort of purification.
This is the groundwork for the texts that have been misrepresented and sold to you as a fake history, as a false reality.
I know that none of us have a problem not swallowing the flood.
It was a local flood. It was this flood. And then you get all sorts of BS arguments back and forth.
And some scholar will jump in naked and flash himself.
And it's like, you're inappropriate, Yale. Sit down, Yale. Inappropriate.
We don't need your arguments. What do the texts say?
What do the texts say? When we started following the giants and you started looking at Aphrodite, you didn't see the end and completion of the mystery.
When you are staring the morning star in the eyes, you find the end. You find the end. It's her eyes that will guide you.
Fantastic. I want to show you that video one more time.
And I want you to notice that Mike Maroulas, who is Dracula's poet, understood the cult and how the cult operated.
We drink blood for a reason.
We drink blood for a reason.
We drink blood for a reason.
We drink blood for a reason.
We drink blood for a reason.
We drink blood for a reason.
We drink blood for a reason.
We drink blood for a reason.
We drink blood for a reason.
We drink blood for a reason.
We drink blood for a reason.
We drink blood for a reason.
We drink blood for a reason.
We drink blood for a reason.
We drink blood for a reason.
We drink blood for a reason.
We drink blood for a reason.
We drink blood for a reason.
We drink blood for a reason.
Jesus didn't start his ministry until we find him with John out in the wilderness
in the water together and he looks up into uranos and he sees the dove. He sees
that spirit that blows. He sees that spirit that flies across the garden.
Jesus is powered by this mystery and when he is arrested in a public park at
4 a.m. with a naked child mark 1451 and 52 we know he has a reason to be screaming
I'm not a child trafficker. This is a traceable rational cult. We can
follow it through the evidence so that he doesn't get away with it. Thank you
for coming tonight. Hail Satan!
Where I am can't bring no flowers to me on Sunday. It's gonna break her heart, not knowing what became.
