Yeah, all right, one, two, one, two, all night, hell Satan, toxin on the arrow, all the dreams, washing the feet with cloth underwear, peddling his horn on wheels, counter toxins with healing waters, welcome to the slaughter, hell Satan, we're selling the bricks of lies, peddling the wires, peddling the wires, peddling the wires, peddling the wires, peddling the wires, peddling the wires, peddling the wires, peddling the wires, peddling the wires, peddling the wires, peddling the wires, peddling the wires, peddling the wires, peddling the wires, peddling the wires, peddling the wires, peddling the wires, peddling the wires, peddling the wires, peddling the wires, peddling the wires, peddling the wires, peddling the wires, peddling the wires, peddling the wires, peddling the wires, peddling the wires, peddling the wires, peddling the wires, peddling the wires, peddling the wires, peddling the
wires, peddling the wires, peddling the wires, peddling the wires, peddling the wires, peddling
the wires, peddling the wires, peddling the wires, peddling the wires, peddling the wires,
The Apostles were a bunch of confused children.
The Prince of Darkness will ain't cup full of violet,
vagina juice.
Out to you by Teddy Bass.
Oh, God.
I am so head over heels over this sound.
Oh, God, I just want to play it all the time.
Welcome to Lady Babylon.
I am so glad to have you back in the workshop tonight.
I've got some stuff to bring you.
That's fantastic.
But I want you to be seated on that throne.
I want you.
Listen, I had an interview this morning.
It was yummy.
But nothing, nothing is as yummy as Satanic congregation.
And I say that to you.
I look at you sitting there standing there.
I see you.
And it makes me feel at home.
It makes me feel at home.
Thank you so much.
Thank you so much for being involved.
And I'm going to let you speak tonight from the gallery.
Love it.
But look, we got some serious stuff to discuss tonight.
Now, I do have an interview coming up with a guy named Mark at my family.
Thanks.
I'm crazy.
Fantastic.
So as soon as that comes out, I'll let you know.
I'll let you know.
I'm giving it to him, people.
I'm giving it to him.
And they love it.
They love it.
It's so.
Wow.
You know what I'm here to do.
By the way, shout out.
Shout out to Mark tonight, who's going to be in our presence.
Welcome to the Satanic congregation.
People, welcome.
This is fantastic.
Hail Satan.
Hail Satan.
Let's do this thing.
What do I have for you tonight?
What we're going to do is the dirty, dirty stuff you're always asking me for.
You're always coming to me, coming, dating my brain.
We're going to take that little bit, that little wrinkle in space time.
We're going to just gently, gently, don't overdo this.
Just gently.
We're going to pull it to the side and look.
We're going to see.
We're going to gaze right through that little fold in reality.
Boom.
To see through the event horizon.
That's where we're going.
This is fantastic.
Democracy.
Democracy.
I heard someone this week in some popular YouTube bonanza.
It was an interview, a debate, and the people were debating.
And this one gentleman, this one gentleman said Christianity created democracy.
Christianity is responsible for democracy.
Turn your scientific clocks 180 degrees because Christianity has historically been the degrading
force of democracy.
It is like an antidote to a venom.
When you embrace tyranny and become the servant of the savior, you kill the drive of democracy.
I don't want to give you any ideas.
I don't want to do that.
I'm not going to talk about Christianity tonight.
I will because you know me.
But our focus is on what was the, what did democracy really come from?
Because there are many of you out there who may buy in to this educational approach to warping
reality and think that Christianity was somehow involved in the birth of democracy.
No, no, no, no, just the opposite.
Just the opposite.
Yes.
Okay.
What about the actual birth?
Let's go to her tonight.
Let's go to her.
Do we have, Chewie, do we have a depiction of what our AI powers that be, what they project this?
Show me the girl.
Yes.
Show me.
Who is this person?
Who is this person?
Give me another one, please.
Who is she?
She looks young.
She does.
She does.
It is she who produced democracy.
That's who I'm going to, I'm going to bring you tonight.
And at the end, by the way, at the end, I've got a really goody, a gym.
You're not going to find this anywhere else.
This is a gym part of a secret name of the person that birthed democracy.
Are you ready?
This is centuries, centuries before Jesus, right?
This is centuries before Yahoo was invented.
We have the foundations and this belongs to us.
We don't care what anybody else thinks.
Do we?
We don't at the congregation of Satan.
Do we care what they think?
No, we force feed them their own sources until they're fat and bloated and decaying and dead.
That's what we do.
Fantastic.
Let's go there.
I want to use this on the, you know, the ghosts that we have in the basement.
We're going to have to call some up.
I want to call them up.
Let's get to it.
Bring us some sources before these people get mad and storm out.
Look, this is the hymn to Athena.
It's the hymn to Athena.
Who is that?
Who is that one who is deathless?
This is she who brought us democracy.
Let me show you how she did it.
You may hear this Greek text being sung before the sun is rising.
This is the cult of the savior.
If it's things that are sounding familiar, you guys know how it works.
You guys don't even put your seatbelts on anymore.
I know that.
I know that.
I got to give you bigger and bigger bumps.
I got a good one tonight, but this doesn't surprise you.
It doesn't shock you.
Let's look at her.
Who is Athena?
She brought us democracy.
By the way, she's the mother of the arts.
The mother of the arts.
Oh, God.
Where does she go on those purple mountains, majesty?
Oh, my God.
Let me guess.
There are some fruited plains.
Darn tootin'.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Fantastic.
What are some of her epithets?
I just want to take you in.
Now, I want to get the Greek to you.
I want to slide it to you.
You know what I mean?
So here we go.
This is yummy.
I'm not going to give.
No, let's go chewy.
This has to be finessed.
We can't do this by throwing them entire page of Greek and all the Greek students are rushing, rushing, rushing, rushing.
Look what he underlined.
Okay.
Good.
Excellent, guys.
Keep it up, you mongrel demons.
Love it.
Go.
Palas.
That's who she is.
And what does it mean in Greek?
The palace is the shaker of the spear, the shaker of the spear.
Excuse me.
Do we have palace Athena on board?
Is anybody here?
I don't see her.
Is she out there?
Where is she?
Palace Athena calling palace Athena.
She's talking about horse cultures and the development of their oysters.
Right.
She rides horses.
She appeared a couple of times in Athens.
Yeah, she did.
She did.
They wrote about it.
They wrote the heck out of it.
Yeah.
Six foot six.
Always a head taller than everybody else.
The men that is.
Right.
See what kind of epithets they use for.
She's the spear shaker.
She's the one that causes you fear.
Isn't that sexy?
She causes you fear.
Love it.
Go to the next one.
Boom.
She's the monogonist.
She's the monogonist.
Wait a minute.
What does that mean?
Everybody's scramble is doing great.
It means the only born or the one born.
These are unique births.
She was born from the head of Zeus.
She was born from his head.
Her mother was metis.
You know what metis is?
Metis is what you need if you're going to rule.
Yeah.
Yeah.
We don't have her anymore.
Ever since we abandoned the gods and antiquity had to create a term for the Christians called atheist.
We don't have her anymore.
But here she is.
Resurrect her tonight.
She's coming back.
Who said we couldn't bring back the core?
Shut up, Jesus.
Does that ring in your ears like it does in mine?
Can you hear that too?
We're going to try that again.
Let's see.
I love the live.
Don't you guys love the live?
Because it's me and you.
Hail Satan.
It's me and you.
Love it.
Let's go.
What else is she?
Before the only born.
Before we can go ahead with the only born.
Do you know somebody who is the only born?
Of course you do.
Gangsta G is the only born.
She will blow that up so I can read it with my eyes.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
Only borns.
Did you think he was the first one on the title?
Did you believe the fairy tale?
Do didoo.
Do.
Pull down that Confederate flag.
It's not how it works.
Oh my God.
I love it.
Boy Satan is masterful.
Love this stuff.
Oh Jesus.
Christ Jesus.
Scared me. Don't do that. Should we I turn back and look don't yeah, don't it if I know it's come and give it to me
But that gory stuff is the Christians are into me. It's a little bit much for me. Let's go to the next one
That was the only begotten son. Yeah
What else is the mother of?
Democracy she is Phil in thoughts and if you break that down, it's
Lover of the in theotic experience. What is the in theotic experience? Are you ready?
This is the experience of God
within
She can possess you
She can possess you
Do we practice these states today? Do we do this today? Not like they did in antiquity. No
No, we don't familiarize ourselves with physics
The in theotic physics now some of you in the congregation. I know from your deranged email that I love
Yes, and if I don't answer your email, it's not because I don't want to it's because I'm swamped
You know and aging I need to exercise more
Let's get back to it. What was the next epithet chewy?
This is what she is
What is the mother of democracy?
She is the fronesis
For those of you
Who are good?
decent
She is your fronesis
Okay, what is fronesis?
Think of this. It's a great concept. We don't have it in English
Okay
Fronesis is particularly are you ready for this sharp edge? It's the ability to make the right decisions
while governing
Okay, okay, are you loving it? Are you loving it she?
That girl with the horse and the poison arrows
Ah the aegis maker, where's my goat the aegis
Maker, where's my goat bring my goat? Oh give way. Oh such fast. It's too patchouli
It's like hyperdrive is too much tonight. Oh
There's the goat
Look at it. Isn't it lovely you can hear the whole you can hear the angels
I bet when goats do this whatever she's doing. I bet you can if you had ears you could hear the angels
Right the watchers
Is anybody else a little creeped out by that?
They shouldn't call them watchers, you know, they should call them recorders of events. There's a keepers of time
Right. No. No, they call them watchers. I wonder what the watchers make of our goat
The reason I mentioned the goat is because this is the mother of democracy and
everybody knows
That she
nursed a
King
Who was half human half snake?
Yeah, and she nourished him with her own icor her own
Blood
In communion
She gave it to him
Boy, yahoo would kill for Eve
Yeah, he would instead, you know, I just messed it up the party went wrong kicked everybody out
Incompetence of all the divinities
through all time in this succession that is our quantum reality
Yeah, what a terrible job
Look at it getting done, right look at the Balkans watch how it gets done look at the builders of the museum
Look at the crafters of the stage because these are all
The arts of Athena and you say, whoa, wait a minute. Was there another divinity of all there? I said the stage
Shh, shh
This is about Athena tonight
Yeah, okay
What happens what happens give me another epithet charge me up. I'm getting so hot. I'm hot on my brain. I'm hot
It's a retoce. What is she isn't this beautiful? It's describing her. She's a retoce
In
Affable
We are unable to communicate her
In you can't
But then what are the singers of the hymns say right after that they say that she is the song
She is the communicated song that can't be told
The story that can't be told the song that can't be sung. Oh
God purple mountains majesty, you know, that's where she is
That's where she is. Do you begin to see why the founding fathers?
Created monuments that looks like somebody imported them from Greece
Notice the attention to detail with
Athens and democracy
right
America
was a colony of
Athens
America is
under assault
Do you know what the evangelicals if you will let me take it aside? Come here evangelicals. I know there's lots of dead ones
Do you know what they say?
Right now in their meetings. Listen, can you hear them?
Can you hear there if you can pay to get in by the way? I'm still not monetized
I could be but I refuse to
Right, so we're always gonna have this commercialist enterprise that we've got going. I love it
I love it and thanks by the way to the artists who are sending their stuff and the vitties
Some people are watching these vitties. I feature prominently in one called pharmacone that I'm quite pleased with
Oh
God is it sexy? I love these things a cult examiner
Yeah, fantastic. Does anybody get paid? Nope
No, no these contributions or contributions because it's right
Yeah, I thought you built churches on money you do
It's not a church
Yeah, we got a grotto. We got a little cave pan. I can't see you, but I know you're there
I know you're there. Thank you everybody for coming. Thank you everybody for coming
I feel like I can reach into your living rooms or your cars wherever you are
Some people listen to me at work
Right those Brits that are listening to me at work. Oh
You see those morons you see them
Ignore them ignore them do your job do your job find your way. Oh
God, I feel like I can reach out to you. Hail Satan. This is this is fantastic
Yeah, I didn't want to intimidate you that way, but I'm starting to fall for you. Yeah, the satanic congregation
Chewie, I'm serious satanic congregation. Yeah
Mmm, this is the place and I want to have question and answer by the way at the end so that we can talk
Oh, look at this. We have comment. Beautiful. Beautiful. Shall we can let's see what that was again?
I never learned so much so fast about Athena. Thank you. That's nice
That's nice. Hail Satan
Love it. That's a beautiful thing to say. Yeah, right back at you
Let's go to it into the void Chewie boom
What else is she surprised surprised? What is the mother of democracy?
She is feel oyster
Yeah, she is a lover of the mania a lover of the mania. I thought this is the mother
Virgin nope
Nope, as a matter of fact all this hymn that we're listening to that we can hear coming to us at sunrise
All that we can hear is about this person who is both
masculine and feminine
Wait, wait, wait, I knew it the Medusa
Why?
Why is the Gorgon
bearded
They're women
Do you know what they call asana the they call her I'm giving you the dork by the way, I say me if you want
Asana because that's the older version and that's what we're harkening back to
She avoids the bed
There's no union that takes place
Her offspring are derived directly from the seed. Oh
My god, what are these people doing?
First of all, we know they're on drugs, right?
obviously
It's how you get them a doosai. Oh god. Love it. What else is she you know besides fact?
She loves the mania. You didn't know the mother of democracy loves mania. Did you um?
She actually performs. This is a verb in Greek oyster
She and you can see it's just the oyster in a verbal form
She oyster sizes
She causes people to enter into and it says the tool that she uses money
Use the insanity
Do you know how to how to spot?
When Athena is working
You'll find those who are kakoi those who are evil
You'll find their minds are possessed with an insanity and that comes from her. Oh
Wow
Wow, what kind of insanity it's a raging
It's a raging. It's an insurrection
It's a revolt
This is why you need fronesis
Yeah, wake up says Athena
Yeah, love it love it. Oh god, I love it go to the next one. What's your next epithet?
She is the one who slays the
Gorgon
You mean that goat thing and the bringing of the shield? Yeah, right the aegis
With the head of Medusa
Did you know that was her operation to reap that head that turns everything to stone?
Yeah, it was oh, we're talking about somebody bigger here. We I mean I'm starting to smell koki and stuff going on
right
Welcome to the venom
you remember in
The third century when the Septuagint is being written that is what the Christians
Call the Old Testament what the Jews who are religious
Call the Torah
Right
That thing that's being written in Greek in the third century
talking about Moses
holding up
The serpent in the oracular right where he as healer is bringing them the voice of God
Right, that is a reconstruction and appropriation
Shameful an appropriation of
The Greek mystery
Right. Oh god. Let's keep going. I love this madness. Send us the madness, right?
Lady Liberty will send us the madness. What else does it call Athena now?
This one's a surprise for everyone because a lot of you study this stuff
And you know who Athena is or you think you do you've read a lot of myth books. Don't stop reading the myth books, right? Stop
Stop just read the sources and when they start talking about these things then you look at them
Fantastic, what is she? She's dracaena
Dracaena by the way, that's saving you all time the people who are doing research on this
It's saving you time go directly to the primary sources. Don't
mind
Yeah, we got to be tight people these you know if we're gonna hand it to them
You know if we're gonna take that head of yahoo and hand it to the world
We got to do it, right? We got to be tight our ranks have to be good and I'm very pleased
Everything everything by the way. Mmm. Nice. Okay. Let's go to the next text. I want to give you a couple of texts now
Yep, that's good. I want to give you a couple of texts. This is the opening. This is the opening
Mmm. Oh
God of the amenities. Are you ready? Well, let me set the stage for you the furies
The furies are doing thing punishing arrestees for having killed his mother and
they're chasing him
Where where can he go? They have a right to him. They have a right to his life
What do they do they make him nuts you cannot kill your mother and not be nuts
Yeah, believe it or not
Yeah, it's the how the universe works despite what the atheists of antiquity would tell you
Yeah, there are powers. There are daimones here tonight
We have the furies and when I say the furies the arrenois. Oh
My god, I just want I just want you to relish for a minute in the idea of these women
these are the women who punish for
Melio crimes
These are the women who hold that high standard of nemesis, you know the the one thing nemesis hates above all else a
Child the disrespects its parent
Isn't it amazing?
Imagine a law based not on thou shalt not be talk making my image
Thou shalt not be making my image brah. I got it. I got it stay up. I'm making a percentage on that, right?
We're not talking like that kind of divinity. We're talking about a divinity
Proceeding that one that is this mother divinity and she has justice in her
Athena is
The one who brought us justice you cannot have
democracy without
justice
Once you say no to justice you lose it. That's it
It's up for grabs
Yeah, it's just a seed of power now and you are servants to a tyrant
but Athena
First establishes justice the arrenois are tracking
Arrests and he comes to guess who Athena Apollo is his attorney
Because he's the one through the Oracle who told him to do this
Do you see what the diamond ace can do do you see those powers and who do they choose to be the judge
To be the one who breaks any ties in the vote. Wait, you mean their vote?
Where do you think do you think it was a bunch of monks who figured out democracy?
Seriously, do you think it was let's say nuns and monks
Figured out democracy. Do you think that they're going to perpetuate a system like that?
No
Because the phronesis is not with the individual in the Christian faith
The phronesis is meaningless
The faith is everything
Right follow
Follow you know what follows
slaves
That's the speech the devil gave
That took a third of them and turned them and when they were like
Yeah
Yahoo can stork himself
Yeah
Imagine that
Imagine that power to be able to free you of that fear. You know what demons are
They're angels who are unafraid
Yeah, their eyes have been opened
Which is exactly what yahoo doesn't want. He doesn't want you to have that opened
Reality he doesn't want you to have that fruit
Mmm, you got it. Oh god, I love it. I love it. We had a little fruit tonight. Let's let's go to the okay
I'm gonna read this passage to you blow it up to you. I just want to translate it for you. Yeah, so first she says
This is the pithia you see the top this is this is one of the girls that Paul was chasing around
You know Paul the Apostle did somebody flay this in here smells like Paul has been in here junky
Why can't you ever take a shower man put on men I'll hate a day presbeo seon
Ten put all mountain guy on oh god put all mountain
That's the first
Oracle
Pro Mantis who is the pro Mantis guy and this priestess is praying to her
This is gorgeous
She says the second I'm gonna pray in honor of the second and who is the second to sit in that place
Who's the second them us?
Them us and you sit there leave it up and you sit there and say them as who is them as oh god
It this is so sexy. Are you ready?
You ready? This is law. This is custom
This is she who is the custom
She is in charge of that Oracle if you don't put her in that position you get tyranny. That's the way it works
Okay, let's do it do the metaphysics somebody calculated rats punch it up on the magic calculator
Go no they're here. I want to keep translating and who is the third
Who's the third the third was a willing switch?
She wants you to know by the way these are switches between mother and daughter
Right and the third is a willing one. There's nothing that's forced
Right, it's Apollo who kills the python
This is pre-Apollonian Oracle this is old this is earth Oracle. This is all of your
Black sea magic. This is those priestesses of the great huntress
hunting people down
These are Balkans who are eating flesh and drinking human blood. Why would you do this? Oh if you have not tried it
The mental health of your community depends on it. I don't care if you believe that or not
Love it
Keep go to the go to the next one. I mean to that very same one and who else there's another finally. Who's the third?
It's the titania, right? Who is she?
I'm Phoebe
Phoebe. Oh god
And what what does she do? She gave it as a gift
To Phoebus and he gets his name from her
You mean Phoebus Apollo
You you're right, man. You're right. You got it right on the head, right? This
Is who we're in the presence of in order to establish
Justice
Now if you wondered why it was a big deal
To establish justice
There are lots of medieval courts, but there was no justice
Right when you burn people alive for having ideas that are not your own
That's exactly what Julie and the apostate warned us. What happened?
Uh-huh, you know, they'll burn books, right?
You know, they'll get rid of stuff and they'll rewrite the history
Right now imagine this is where democracy is coming from and yet you
Are being bombarded with the message that Christianity
Produces democracy
Because that's what they're going to do forcefully for us
Right
They're going to take ours away and they're going to produce their own and this elacious beast will eat us all
But the one thing the Christians are not telling you I I almost got to this before
The one thing the Christians are not telling you in their kitchens right now
They're saying America
Is an apart
Of prophecy. It's for some reason they have you know, they like to divide up places
They this is so-and-so and this is so-and-so and this is so-and-so, right?
They even know how to read those texts, but they do that
And um, one of the things they say is America is not America
Not in the final days
When the glory of Jesus Christ returns to fail the horse with the blood up to the shoulder blades
Um, why why will they tell you America's not there America gets knocked out?
seriously
So the people are planning right now
For america to get knocked out. Who do you think he keeps telling you to invest in bullets and
Bullets and dried goods
Yeah, it's coming people it's such a special year this year is so hot. Oh god the events
The events
Makes me I smell it
You could smell it when rom burn too
and they were like
Those sybalas
They're they're they're just determined
To bring to reality their prophecies
They're just determined to and if their prophecies say they're gonna burn down rom
They're gonna burn down rom
Their allegiance is not
Is not
To that phronesis
That somehow
those racist
slave-owning
knuckleheads
Managed to come up with we don't need to idolize them
We don't but somehow
Some of them captured some kind of glimmer of some of a reflection from antiquity from a woman
named Athena
And that drove
The freedom that you and I ultimately inherited
That we're holding on to it drove that
Thomas Jefferson said and people said don't get political. I'm not
I'm being an american and I can tell you that thomas jefferson said straight up
The greatest threat to the fledgling american democracy
Is the protestant movement
Yeah known as the presbyterians
At the time that's who it was you say evangelicals now you can say whatever you want
Those people who are trying to rewrite your history right now just like they did in the fourth century
They're doing the same thing again. And if you don't honor Athena
our ancestors
They're not going to let us friggin get anywhere near them
Do you think that's honor my god?
You know what you can do you can take this greek and you can shove it
Where the sun don't shine
Politi cost is a greek word
Used by the people who worshiped Athena
Yeah, long live
Long live Athena. Let's keep going. There's a cut. There's a couple little lessons here
That are just I want to just iron it iron it all out. No, I'm taking people's long time. Sorry 45 minutes
People are like, huh, right? I'm hungry. I need some to eat
Um, look at this get out of here. He says this is apollo. He says get out of here
He's trying to get the furries to go
Get out of here leave my holy shrine
Right before I do what before I unleash my feathered serpent
From my golden stringed bow
Oh, are you kidding me? Did he just threaten when I think he threatened? Oh, yeah, he's gonna get he's gonna get mantic on us
And anthropologically keep it in context of what they're doing that bow technology. It's
driving all of the poisons
Right, they want to find the best poisons as hunters and as
A lot of them are let's just admit they're kind of like pirates
You know, they come into your city. They give you a hard time to steal 12 of your virgins and take them off up into the hills
Next thing, you know, they're bringing back babies and throwing them. We don't want the boys
And their leader is called the strangler
Oh god, wouldn't you like wait a minute my mind just went there
I saw her
Can you imagine this? It's the bronze age
and
there are
gangs of very powerful
technologically advanced
women
Who can come into your city turn it upside down take anything of value
and
Hall off some of your virgins. They're so good that they just have to approach the city and say, uh, you're ready to pay up
And they are interested in the oisteromania
They're the ones who've developed technologically that ability
To be able to cross into death and to resurrect back that life changing thing
They developed that burning off the mortality. Those are all their little goodies
And that stuff is spreading across the Mediterranean
Imagine being around then. Oh god. Give it to me again. Give it to me again, sherry. Give me the next one
Yeah, yeah. Um, yeah
So look, he says get out of here. He says look, this is not your type of place
Where your punishment is used and what how do the renewees punish these women?
By the way, it's they're getting sexier and sexier the more we go. Um, I'm sorry, but that's just my opinion. Um,
I'm being honest
What are they used to the furies? How do they punish these older?
Diamonds that publish crimes against family members these women
Um
It says right here
Karenis that is
Of Thalmorujoy. Oh my god. Oh Thalmorujoy is when you dig out somebody's eyeball. You ever dig out somebody's eyeball?
They're doing this
Right digging out eyeballs. It's not pleasant
Addis does it himself, right?
Not you know, you gotta appreciate the
The power of that but what else are they they're into the slaughters of justice
Wait, what? Yeah, the just slaughter
Okay, just slaughter. Okay. Um, I guess if you really you know, um, if you murder a
family member
You know, um, I'm just saying
For their sakes
And what else? Oh, uh-oh. Does somebody see the word sped matos? I told you this was going to all be related
What else do the iranui's oversee? They oversee taking the virility of the child
Wait, what? Huh?
They oversee taking the virility of the child
Along with these punishments within the earliest form of western
Governance
Is an element of justice
Woven into the bronze age fabric
And what does that justice directly?
involve with
making
eunuchs
It's the kingdom of heaven
And they're making eunuchs
Some eunuchs says jesus
Are made eunuchs for the kingdom of heaven
Interesting that's what these women are
Yep
And who stands between us and them?
Athena
Athena does
What does Athena do? Let's see the next text. Do you love this?
Boom. Um, before we get to what Athena does, this is hera telea
I just want to give you a sacred name of hera telea is her sacred name. What is hera? Everybody knows
Hera is the most beautiful everybody knows
They know that she is that guardian
Of that union
She's what she's guardian of the union the guardian of the bed
Okay
Okay, she's also what telea
She who was the one who accomplishes the right
She is the completion of the right because you see the ride has something to do
With a marriage if you're going to be a christ, you got to talk about your bride. You got no christ. You got no bride
All right, you got a christ. There's a bride somewhere
This is ancient mystery religion
hera telea
Is that protective daimone
That protective daimone. Athena is just enforcing that
What does she do? She is the transition to what you and I call justice
The murderer is brought to her
And she cast the deciding vote
And her vote is to quit
Yeah
And what does that enable us to do?
You can have a city then you can have a civilization that can advance
If you don't have
justice
You will not advance. You will deteriorate. You will degrade
Fantastic. Love it. Go to the next one. Boom. I didn't mean to get preachy there
What are these furies wearing by the way? I want people to see this look at this first word foinicobaptois
Does anybody hear the word baptist in there? Right? They can't read this in seminary
I'm sorry. I don't mean to beat up
It's terrible. It's terrible, but I can do that with you here if we
I just imagine us
in some kind of dive
with
people serving drinks that
Do things to you
You know what I mean?
Oh god, I love it. Don't get the
glass that's shape funny
Let's get to it. What is he talking about? I'm talking about what they're dressing
In what are they dressing here?
foinicobaptois
They are the ones who are dying the purple. You mean baptists originally means the dyers guild. Yep
Yeah, that does get used to it
Right, Mary's fingers are purple. We understand these the the priestesses
the madu sigh
under Athena
Who are performing?
via the purple
Via the purple you mean after you have the purple for the temple practice. Yes
Yes, of course they do. I'm sorry. You didn't see it the version of history that you saw was disney
I'm sorry
But there it is keep going. This is what they're wearing. Let's love love that. Who is that chewy?
Oh, is that medea?
Fantastic. I love that. Oh
I love that expression. Let's go to the next one. Look at this hold us
Hold us. What is the chorus of fury say my tip? Look at the Dorian
You guys relish this in Greek relish the Dorian and how it sounds different from the attic
Wait, what they are addressing night
with a capital in
Okay, we just set ourselves
right remember
Remember that night is that oracle
Right, the Irenia ways are serving the oracle the furies that are casting your
Present that are weaving your present because the future is the grace told us but we all ignored
It's not achievable
That's what defines the future. That's what is the future. It's that which will never come to pass
Yes
In the now is the weaving of your fate
It's where the sisters have power
Go back to that text, please and what do they say mother?
Right, they're crying out to nicks
Right, hear us
Why are they crying out because they've been wronged?
Let them all whether they're blind or whether they're seers
Let them all know
Give us the next one
Over the sacrifice
This is our song
Do you know what their song is the song of the Irenia ways? Are you ready when you hear this remember?
after the trial
We only achieved justice because Athena was able to
Take the Irenia ways and permanently established them as divinities in Athens
Huh permanently established them. Isn't that nice?
If you will recognize
Their
justice
Your city flourish
She understood that
And that offer was enough to appease them because of course what god does not want to be recognized
Yeah
Love it. Let's go to the next one. Well, we're burning it up. We're almost done people. We're almost out
This is the coming around the bin. Um, so on this this is their song. What do they say their song is their song is paracopa
It's insanity. It's frenzy
It's para fora, you know para fora. That's when you're taken out of your mind
It's freno dales
It is destructive
of the flame
Oh, you mean in order to be healed you have to be destroyed
Lias will tell you that yeah
Right that invisible one. It's not we're not talking about him wait
This is the hymn of the iranuez says the text. It is the desmios frenon
It is that which binds your frame
Your midriff your gut from which you think
You're thanking feeling gut
It binds it
Oh god
Not to any music either. It's a shout
to mortals
Get the next one. Can you hear it? Can you hear the shout if you can?
Um, we know that mars is coming
fantastic
Oh, love it. Love it. Love it
So are these are these humans ever going to find their way? Are they going to find that beautiful speech?
Yeah, let me tell you something says athena
From translating from these fearful women
From their faces
Do you know what she says there is something great?
There is a great advantage to you
citizens
from their faces
You know and
Tell us keep going
if she says if you
Will be well-minded
You will honor them always
And establish a city
That follows justice
That's how you practice
From that from the establishment of those courts
from the establishment of that cult of justice
You mean court was originally a cult? Yeah
Yeah, it didn't they didn't build a ziggurat next to it build the courthouse the secular courthouse
They didn't do that
You know, what about on the other side?
What about maybe there's some
No, no, it's temples
Temples to justice
If you don't consider justice, holy and that this is the question
This is the present of the future and the past brought together
If you don't
hold justice
in regard
If you excuse it
when justice is overlooked
You will lose your democracy when you stop looking into the faces
of those demons
that punish
the blood of murder
if you stop
You're in a bad place
You're in a bad place. You're gonna lose it. I've got one more passage for you tonight and then one word. That's the treat
It's the
It's the treat that you've been I've been tempting you with until the end. Um, or estes. What's he say?
Um, this is at the end of his trial. He says oh palace
He uses her he uses her title, right?
Spearshaker. I love that. Um
What is what does he say or oh palace?
Oh
The one who is the savior of my home
You have restored me
to
This paternal place
Oh my god
What's what's at the um second to bottom a kati
The things brought about that you have been witnessing they have been brought about by palace
by loxious
and a third
savior
Look at that last word
Soteros
A third savior
We are sitting
In a theater
We're sitting in a theater. That's where our date was tonight. I should have told you that at the beginning
We're sitting in a theater
There is an invisible god here
Who told us
Wherever you're gathered together
I'm right there
I'm right there in your midst
And he
Was the savior
Athena
Brought justice
Justice brought democracy
Democracy brought bachas
Into the theater
I've got a special word for you tonight a special word
I want you to see it. Let's get those. That was a nice one. That's okay
But who is that? Okay
Um something's going on. Did you get all the athena?
Um representations tonight. We did those the best that we could
Right, it's fun wrestling with the ai is fun. I really appreciate that now. I want to end off with I want to give you a little
Um, I want to give you a word
to take home
I want this to permeate your brains
As if you were a special group of people
Tonight on this date
I wanted to end with a gift to show you how special
I consider our time together and the fact that you are as responsive
As you are and I'm going to take your questions in just a minute
But
I want to give you something. This is a name. This was the name
The epithet
Did Athena receive? Nobody's going to know this stuff. You guys are special. I'm giving it to you
It was a name that was given to her by aries
Just as Hera
Gave the same name
to Aphrodite
Are you ready for this? Are you ready for this?
Oh, isn't that nice? What is Kunamuya? Who?
Better question. Who is Kunamuya?
Yeah
She is the dog fly
The bites
She is the impetus
She is that drive
That causes the bed to come into jeopardy
As Aphrodite
She is the goddess who brings that
Phronesis to war
She will outdo you every time
Every time
We had a passage I think we skipped it, but we had a passage earlier
About producing the black foam
We'll come back to it next time. We had a passage about producing it. What do they do?
What do these sisters do?
Who carry the purple?
What do they do? They produce
A spoon an afron
They produce this substance
That is darkened with the purple
Oh, I want to bring you that the only way to get to it is through her
She who is the Kunamuya?
She who is that impulse
If you passively take insurrection it it will overthrow you
There is an impulse and an impetus
That Athena possessed
That kept that justice
And that force
In abeyance
Yeah balanced
Brilliant
Mother of the mother of all arts
Um, thank you for coming tonight
Thank you for for giving me your time
I want to give you some reaction now if anybody has any questions
And you know just
Just
We'll pick anything that strikes our fancy
I would just want to be able to feel kind of
Reverberate off. How's everybody all out there doing?
Yeah, yeah, oh great Clement of alexander. What kind of
Brilliant nerdy thing is that somebody's quoting him. That's fantastic. Um, oh my god. How say how say it and ride
Hell Satan wait. Okay. Wait. Um, I'll tell you I keep going down here somebody somebody out there
Sitting there. Give me some feedback. Do you like Athena? How do you like Athena?
Hmm wild, you know wild wild
Carl be careful
There's people
No, don't
That's okay. By the way for the people who are guarding
The channel and who are helping to keep it from
Turning into some kind of you know, it's chaotic mess. Oh, thank you. I appreciate your
You're going for it. Hell Satan ride ride. I was beautiful. Thanks doc. Oh, look at that. Who said that? That's
Oh stoic
So I like stoics. I do I do. I love stoic Seneca, man
You got to read the media. Did you read the media? You want to learn stoic philosophy?
Read the media, baby. Oh god. It's so sexy. He's got actual incantations. How does Seneca get those?
Well, he's got access to the Etruscan stuff that's in the imperial libraries
Oh god
Information right at the top. Love it
Love the strong women people need to see this reality. Yeah
Yeah, boston make it happen boston people do need to see it
They need to see it. They need to see everything down to down to the details
Just down to everything stuff that will certainly get you thrown out of any victorian circle
Yes, love it. Love it. Let's keep it going
Lad, doesn't Athena spring forth from the head of Zeus?
It seems like political action and either direction will ultimately be funneled and guided by her. How else
Will the had be split will the head be split?
Yeah, remember, you know, that's a good who was that?
It's vox
Okay vox. Thank you very much. That's the voice. Um, thank you very much
Hephaestus, right? Don't you want to swing that axe?
How do you get Athena? You got a cracks? You got a crack
Jehovah's head open
Isn't that amazing?
Is that what we need to do? We need to crack who is gonna look this is satanic initiation
You know, um, this is satanic
apocalypse
Certainly we have to have a commission somewhere
Somebody look it up one of our lawyers. Check the paperwork. Um, shouldn't we have the obligation of killing God?
Isn't that
Isn't that something we should be doing? Well one way that I've seen that's super cool
Is by splitting open his head
Splitting open his head who takes the aegis?
Athena does
Right, that's supposed to be Zeus's
Yeah, yeah, but Athena takes it
Oh god, is she getting more more and more just
Desirable, I love this. I love this. Um, that splitting open of the head by the way
Splitting open the head, you know that means something
right, so
Uh, let's just let's just all swim in the quantum physics of that
Yeah, right good party on right good
Keep going wait. Let me show
Um, yeah, no no
Wait Carl the idea that you are a wait the trolls is this trollery? It's
Wait, is there trollery? Okay. Um
Yeah, okay
Oh, look, we don't yeah
Um imagine imagine go ahead and take it down
Since people want to discuss and people are free here to discuss
Yeah
Um, I saw some misogyny the other day now. I don't know
I don't know about you, but as soon as somebody gets
misogynistic
Everything else they say becomes garbled. I can't hear it. It becomes like brrr brrr brrr
What kind of barbarian if you know what I mean in the civilized world
Um
The female voice
Is that voice that gave us
Our institutions the great mother, baby. Who who does not worship the great mother?
All right, come on
Athena's the virgin mother. She's the sotae and I before anybody else is she's giving that kid her own ecore
Oh god, wonderful
Love it. It's how I mean Olympus wouldn't be Olympus without it the cosmos the organization. It doesn't work
Unless she's there
Oh god, you better hope that she's here now. You better hope she is
Oh, let's go to that. Let me let me pick calm down people calm down
Look at it. Look, we got a mosh pit out there. Boom. Boom. All right, right one of the people saying
Hail Mary. Hey good. Good. It's somebody's playing a game. Don't let me get it. Oh, no
Oh, no, um, let's give Carl a chance. He let him come back sexism. He says
Sexism only women can do. Oh god. Do you what have we done? It's a hornet's nest
What can we have some order order jury?
Order um, I love it. Look at you guys you debating and
Yeah, doing doing the stuff. I love it. Can we all I wish everybody was so excited
About this almond should debate
Carl no Carl um, I'm not or no who said that he said
Yeah, oh a cult examiner. No a cult examiner. I'm not here to debate Carl right
I'm not here. I'm a lot. I'm here to give
Everybody in the satanic congregation the access to the tax and I've already done it
Right. Um, Carl can say whatever Carl wants and thanks whatever he wants
Right. Um, remember from the beginning
That we have welcomed. I I love it. Carl. Send me something that tells me I'm going to hell or something. I don't know
um
Bring bring yourself to the place of doing what you really want to do
Communication wise. Um, this is a place. It's an open forum for people to be able right satanic congregations should be open
You should be able to come here. The only thing you cannot do here is say jack
If you're saying jack and trying to blow hot air
Um, you're in the wrong place, right? They don't serve that here
This is synthomasque, baby. Love it. Let's go back. Let's go back. Is that are we good? Okay?
Let's go. Chewie says hey flight's over. Um, thank you very much for coming tonight. I'm going to play
um
Teddy base again
On this exit and I want you to love it. I want you to love it. Thank you for coming tonight. Hail satan
Oh
You can see the function of the mystery it's in the oil from India the sorceress
All drugs are always purple. Take a trip a cave in the desert. You'll take care of it
By the command of my voice pull out the dope
Punk funk with the tippy top
I can get you all the water in life. You'll be
