Rwy'n cael ei ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud.
Rwy'n cael ei ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud.
Welcome back to Satanic Initiation. We have a great service tonight. Praise be to Lucifer. We finally have a sacrifice.
But before we can get to that, I need to reiterate the two principles. Number one, we follow reason in this temple space that we have constructed. We follow reason.
Number two, any of our efforts are thwarted by profit. Anybody choosing to profit off of this sacred space is polluted and to be outcast.
Let's proceed then with the purification, shall we? I want to bring up this lamb of a goodie before you, and I want to present to you some of a comment that was given, and I want to look at it reasonably and discuss it just for a second.
And that will be our springboard into the dragon because I know that you all have come here to meet dragon. So it is my honor and privilege tonight to introduce you to the dragon.
I'm warning you, there's quite a bit of esoteric meaning and ritual and linguistics. You can love this. It's beautiful.
Where's it? Bring the sacrifice. Hit the number one, please.
This is from Nick. Thank you, Nick, for the input. Amon, I respect you for popularizing and reviewing ancient texts, but because you are not even aware about city and culture, you are butchering things.
It's the first time I've ever been called a butcher, but I'd rather like it.
Anacarsus wrote about sitting. Anacarsus explained the Scythian history to the Greeks. He's this figure that's kind of the George Washington of the Scythians, right?
Yeah, but late. He's late, right? He's real late. So, you know, this is six. This is well beyond when the late Bronze Age Scythians were at their peak. Yes.
But anyway, let's keep reading. Ares, for example, was a Lord ruler and a God. In ancient papyri, a God is the ruler who has the trust of his followers.
I've been reading ancient papyri all week, and I can't say that that's the case. Yeah, yeah. If you're talking about specific references, I think you're being, I think I just smelled just a slight, Nick, a slight taint of the trust in his followers.
That's somebody who hasn't really, I can tell you, your feet haven't been deep into the Greek and the Greek traditions about the Aryans and the histories of the Aryans.
Oh, you're going to love it. Herodotus would smile, right?
Yeah, let's look at. Let's look at the origins, but I'm going to take you back, Nick. I'm going to take you back and I'm going to make you look into the face of that queen, that queen.
And so what else do we say about Aryans? Yeah, his people took the name Aryans with an eye. Notice that Aryans is with an eye, and all of a sudden you smell. What do you smell? You smell 1898.
Yeah, and you smell some scholars and some intellectuals in Germany. Yes, this is fun. I love this stuff. And descendants, I assume you meant descendants here, decedents, but descendants of them are now in places like Iran, Ireland, Romania, Armenia, et cetera.
And then Nick has a request. I beg you to distance yourself from Satanists. I told you people get me in trouble and pedophilia, or you guys will soon end up hanged by the neck in the public square.
Yes. Yes. Let's look. That provides us the perfect springboard. And Nick, look, you know, between you and me, it's the sources that matter. You're like a detective when you do this, when you look at history, and you have to piece things together.
And you can say that cadaver was shot. But if you don't find a hole and a bullet, you got problems to the Satanic congregation. I want to address. I want you to see what Nick is doing. This is what I warned. I warned about.
Right. There will be those of you who will be seduced, who will be seduced by the academics. I worked with academics. Right. I went. I went to a conference in England once. And at this conference, just so you can know who I am. I went to a conference in England and the London Times happened to be there.
They were they were doing reporting on it, and they came and reviewed the work in my panel, and they said of my work that it was the last wild frontier of classics. An Oxford professor that nobody apparently never talks to anybody happened to approach me and say, you may be right.
To which is graduate students that. Oh my goodness. Oh my goodness. This is wonderful. Right.
Once you're in these texts that provides you with an immunity. There's two types of people. There's people who know this evidence who can read it. And those people read every day. They wake up in the morning. They read ancient Greek.
Okay. It's just the way it is. It's their occupation. And then there are those people. There are those wolves who have come in amongst the sheep who claim a knowledge of the Greek and somebody who's been doing this for 30 years like myself has developed enough skill to be able to tell right away when somebody in his field is a beginner.
Or doesn't have that breadth of knowledge that they should. And I'd like to bring you some of that knowledge right now. Some of these texts. We're going to look at some things that people don't ordinarily look at. And we're going to look at the Aryan connection and we're going to look at the dragon.
And what is the dragon. Okay. So let's let's get into it.
Would you mind pulling up the very next rule please.
I want to show you a couple of definitions.
Yes. Excellent. Good.
I want you to typically so I come over like this typically. So as you can see from Nick's paragraph he spelled Aryan with an I right and I'll show you in a minute how the Victorians very nicely sifted out for us but that by the time was stray bow.
There's this active debate about what's the real route. Right. Is it alpha row OOPSALON or is it alpha row IOTA. And Nick would be jumping around saying this is a Sanskrit route. It's not. It's not. This is a vestan. It says nothing to do.
Here's the problem on the Greek side in this word has its own derivation and I'll show you the text that talk about that derivation and I'll show you a little cannabis in antiquity.
The question tonight is what is the street name of cannabis. Yeah in antiquity the street name. What do you call it. I can't wait to show you.
OK. So here I just want you to notice that this verb in Greek is shown to us in the Oxford lexicon is going to be some type of drawing or pulling a movement that has to do with out of something toward the drawer toward the one performing the action.
And you can see at the bottom there's a lovely little quote about it's used the stars rising out of the sea. Right. So to aroo is to draw.
That's interesting and wonderful because we have the same route that is used in words like Hera and Aris or Aris.
And you'll notice right away. Oh we have names of gods that are creeping in. Yes we do. You're in the right cult. Don't worry. Right. This is where we're supposed to be.
Why can't we. Why can't we turn away from the pedophilia by the way. Why can't we. When I went to the University of Wisconsin I discovered where the ceiling was.
And so I picked up a rock and I shattered it. And I said from now on I'm always going to break through the ceiling because the establishment there was saying you cannot say that the founders of Western civilization use drugs.
You can't say that. And after seeing what I'd seen. You know hey it wasn't it wasn't hard for me to say hey you know Marcus Raelias and those meditations you love to read Professor so and so from Ireland.
You know who you are. Professor so and so from Ireland. Yeah you have to realize what's what's going on with some of the material that's around you. Right.
And they didn't want to do this. They didn't want to do this so I'm going to bring that to you and it starts here with Aruo. Let's go to the next. Let's go to the next. What are you raising out of the sea.
Well we're raising Arians. Right. OK. I want to move here and I want to show you the audio and how it is that the Victorians define them. The ancient name of the Medes.
Ancient name of the Medes. Look at that. It's not. We get about Iranian highlands. Oh that's beautiful. Lays later with respect to Persia. Right. Next slide please. Yeah.
This is a section of Herodotus. And I want to read you a little a little bit of Herodotus starting at Apicomines. Apicomines which is one two three four five lines down halfway through the line Apicomines.
Apicomines de Medes te Hockidos ex Atheneon estus Arius tutus. Yeah. Methebalon caithutol. To Unumah. Isn't that nice Unumah. Unumah.
Autoi perisfeon o de legosi medoi. Yeah it says after you know after the Medes. Excuse me after Medea. After Medea arrived from Athens and which which Medea or which Medwa the Kokian Medwa after she arrived in Athens.
The people there the Arians changed their name right to the Medes to suit her. And this is what they all this is what they all call themselves. So they changed their genos. They changed their ethnic name. Yeah isn't that neat isn't that neat. Okay. Next please.
I just want you to notice that the Victorians are noticing that the root is changing from the Ari to the Aru. And why is it why would we have we can read here at the bottom modern philology gives the name Arian of course very much wider extension which was which indeed was beginning even the time of Straybo so it looks like at least by the time of Straybo that this is this is a.
Debate a linguistic debate at the time because they're these excellent things and these are the these are the authors that these people who claim knowledge and just give you generalizations.
Anytime you get a generalization is bunk if somebody's you know we're detectives this is history and we're detectives you better bring me some evidence and you better lay it out religious historians love love love love the ideas and the theories.
Right. They're not so good with the actual evidence. So what about these Arians. What about these Arians are all right that drawing is the very thing that the medoi become known for doing that connection to drawing down an expression to draw down the moon.
Can anybody draw down the moon. Yeah can you draw the stars. You can draw a third of them if you've got the right tail. You can draw a third of them.
Yeah stars. Why would you want to draw stars aren't those the things that we look up at right now just there's just balls sending a slight old light hitting us.
In order to get there to those stars we got to go through a dragon a dragon who is protecting a sacred space. What is a dragon.
Can you please bring up for me the first dragon.
There we go.
Just bring up dracon please the first dragon. Thank you.
Yep perfect. Take a look at this through the eyes of Alice from Alice in Wonderland. Yes. And by the way we cannot give up that pedophilia. We must track down the source of this Saturnian satanic.
I can't Nick I can't abandon the Saturnian way. I can't stop people from seeing via these dead people via these sources that Judaism and Christianity are inventions of Saturnian or satanic magic.
Yeah I'm going to show you Moses a stick here in a second. Right. Follows the muse. Be careful. Okay. What is it. The dragon bring up the dragon right. Notice right away on the top they tell you it's from Derek on my and that's because our ancient etymologist our ancient etymologist the people who sat down and tried to figure out make lexica figure out where these words come from.
And there's quite a few you can read them. I'm saying this door is my favorite. But anyway it's only because he says I was the anti Christ. I don't know why. Anyway so if if if we can look at how the where the word come from remember I tell all my students the first and I love this the first.
I really get into this the first day I tell him everything that you're going to be seeing in the vocabulary in Greek. All of these words come from somewhere they all have roots.
And these roots have histories. They're their own organisms. Tonight I want to show you the S. T. R. root. The S. T. R. root. I'd call it the sigmatal row root because that's how I see it most. But I'm going to use the Latin right. Okay fantastic I'm so excited. Okay let's go back to the dragon. What is that dragon.
Are you ready. What is the dragon. The dragon is a serpent. Yeah a constellation right we know there's we know there's the constellation Draco right fantastic look at Roman numeral number four.
What is a carry on. That's something that a carry carries around. Don't you love that. I love that capital sigma combination. It's a see. Love it.
Anyway so the Cadwx. Who's the Cadwx. He's a messenger bra. He's a messenger of God. Messenger of God. And what does he carry around. This thing called a carry on. And what are the what are the Victorians point out there under dragon.
It's a wand with a serpent coiled on it. Yeah right right so the dracon is the wand with the serpent coiled. And for those of you who want to jump ahead to you shut up you for those of you who want to jump ahead to you.
You'll find the serpent wand and who has it who possesses it in the red book is the girl who is half virgin half viper. Love it. Love it. Yeah did you know about dragons. I think he knew a thing or two and his seal proves it the seal on his text proves it by the way.
Nobody's responding to me yet about young seal. Nobody's found it. I'll show it to you. You will love it. It's it's delicious. Yeah. Okay. It can also be people look at the dragon standard. Yeah. And we have two sources that tell us the dragon like the wolves are temple guardians.
And we know that they're individual people right and we're meeting with these people there's we're talking real concrete history now I don't want funny funny story land. I want the actuality I want to bring you the actuality and that's the sacrifice that Nick has to pay.
He has to see the reality of the Aryans with a why. Why is it the why is it the why. Why is there the debate over the OOPSALON the why English why isn't OOPSALON. Right. So why why do we have the debate over the OOPSALON or the IOTA. Right.
Oh it's amazing. Something's hiding. Something's hiding in the OOPSALON. And it's a diagramma. It's a diagramma. It's an old old old Greek letter. I'm talking Mycenaean Bronze Age letter. I'm talking contemporary with the very origins of what you consider Sanskrit right and earlier.
That's what I'm talking. You think Aryan came from Sanskrit. You don't want to know why they put the W in it because it's a diagramma. Yeah. Yeah. Isn't that nice. Yeah. Who are these. Who are these people and what's with all their cannabis.
We know that Herodotus spills the beans on a cannabis. Let's just go now to the cannabis in the ancient text. No put that back up. I like that. I was just starting to. Yes. Let's just go to the cannabis in the text now and look at what these civilians. Nick.
I know that you've never. I don't want to do this because it's painful but I know that you've never met Sita. Right. And she is the name given to Medwah or Medea by the poet with the flattering tongue who is named Dracontius. Yes.
And if you would read you didn't know Dracontius was a source for the city instead you know I know you didn't neck. When you're around the professionals enough. You started you start to see where the knowledge is able to filter to.
I want look look at this people that that's an entire volume 770 pages 770 pages on antidotes antidotes antidotes and great. You see it's translation. No you don't because it hasn't been translated just on the antidotes.
So let's blow the lid off this thing and let's look at what the actual history was bring us up. Did you bring us up the diascorties. I hear by summon diascorties great pharmacologist. We really don't have some people want to say he's a physician but he doesn't really classify as a physician.
He doesn't look like he practices as much. He looks like he's more on the pharmacology side he's more like the buddy of the root cutters that we were looking at. Yeah and anyway he's got a great section if you could bring that up now.
Yeah it is here. I will show you excuse us folks. Yeah so we need to get to the oysters as well. Oh and yes for us. Here we are. Looks like this so diascorties. Thank you Chewie appreciate it. You're doing a sterling job by the way everybody out there says what a good job you do. So I appreciate that. No not that one. That's a nice one. But here yes this one. This is a nice one.
This is it. Okay so this is diascorties who is himself. You'll have to excuse me this background. Diascorties is the one who is writing about all the botanicals and where to get them and what they do and what powers they have and he's also writing about the poisons and the poisons that you use to counteract those poisons. Wonderful stuff.
Oh love it. Love it. Let's anyway bring us back to text there of diascorties. Yep no there we go and cannabis. There you guys see cannabis in its original breed form. Hey Meadows that's just the cultivated kind right. There's wild agria. There's wild cannabis and the kind that you actually work with. Yeah and now he's going to say
Cannabion. Hoi de Scuiniostroffon. Hoi de Asterion Romaioi. Cannabemma. The Romans call their stuff Cannabemma. He has street names for the drugs that are used. And as you can see here Asterion is one of the streets.
You take it off please. One of the common names. And he says that the street name is Asterion. The common name is Asterion. You go to the marketplace and you order up some Asterion. And what is Asterion? Notice that it's got the STR route that everybody is looking for. The STR route.
Do you see the STR? The word for star is Asterion. Asterion is star. Little star. Give me some little star man. I need to go where the Aryans go because the Scythians you know are into the star. The Scythians are into the star. They love that star.
Okay so let's what can we do with the star right? What can we do with the and why did they call it that? Because of the one of the reasons that is explicitly stated is because of the shape of the leaf. Yeah that's nice. I kind of like that five pointed star thing. That's kind of nice.
Not to get too overly satanic Nick. But there you go. There's a nice connection. Give me that really ferocious look of Satan there. Oh no that's just more star. We're transporting into the star. There we go. There we go. That's a nice one. Fantastic.
Okay so now I want to take you to some oysters. A couple of people have asked what's the oysters. Right and please remember that we are entering an initiation. Right so these images I want to tell you to be careful these images could cause you serious discomfort.
Serious discomfort. Yes in a in a series of discomfort is we can get on YouTube and still maintain the historical accuracy of our research. Right we're scientists here reason first. Right we don't just jump in. Nick remember that. Okay so here we go.
I want to bring up. Yes for us please. Yes for us. That's fine. That's fine. I can do that one. But we have that one a smaller. I want you to bring up this one please. Yes for us. There you go. Yes for us right. Look at the Doric.
Aos for us. You like that. Ios an aos. So there's I tell everybody in the Greek class it comes from the verbs and the vowels are really adjusting the are adjusting kind of fine tuning the root but it's really not the vowels that matter. It's really not the vowels that matter. It's the consonants that carry the weight and under certain circumstances that can change like.
Hey ra that first Ada is is a part of the route. So. Okay here we go. What is this word? Ios for us. Ios for us. The bringer of Morn say the Victorians the morning star and you'll notice that it equals Hesperos. Yes and Afrodite's.
So this morning star or Afrodite or the one that for root is carried right the one who carries the dawn. I asked you all who it with the utmost sincerity and I think this area and exhibition is the perfect place to do it. It's the perfect sacrosanct place to spill this blood.
The mother of Lucifer I heard recently on a podcast of Harvard religious studies expert say that it was that it was Lucifer didn't exist right this is a later invention etc etc.
What I'm saying to you is that Lucifer is a bronze age. That's the oldest we can we can track him back and he is that carrier of Ios right he's that carrier of dawn his mother the mother of Lucifer is the dawn and for those of you who are interested in the vampire side of that remember this is a half version.
Viper we're talking about for those of you who are interested in the viper side of that and the actual vampires and the order of the dragon and Vlad and the impaler and his court poet you're going to find that this dawn bringer will introduce you to she who is of the rose colored skin.
Yeah. Yeah. Our Aryans. Yeah.
What are they doing with the rose colored skin now they're bringing us vampires they're bringing us a girl who is half vampire half I mean this is okay back to the dragon back to the dragon and the oysters there there's the dawn bringer by the way so for those of you in religious studies from
the big Ivy League schools trace simply trace Ios for us and you will find that Lucifer is indeed there and that Saturn is just a de-rotified Satan.
What that contradicts the 10th century on a domani sect who said we have a Hebrew manuscript right that's the complete edition we're going to make it we're going to back translate right it contradicts that yes it's not Semitic it's not it's actually not a Semitic word.
Nice Satan Saturn S.T.R. What is the oysters if Satan and Saturn have a bunch of satyrs are you a satyr of Saturn if you really want to strive to be a good satanist you have to be a Saturn satyr of Saturn.
Yes you have to have satiriasis by after taking satyrion and why would you take satyrion in order to become a satyr of Saturn.
Why would you do that because you entered the oyster mania and you are alive you have experienced the mystery and now you your eyes are open right and you you wonder was that guardian there for the sake of the oysters bring us oysters what is oysters.
Yes a gad fly.
Yeah probably it gives us pieces Jansen species of which which one of these bugs that stings cattle right look at number two an insects that infest tiny fish right a small insect divorce bird metaphor a sting oysters is a sting.
Anything that drives somebody mad.
Yeah and the Greek there talks about by means of the oysters of the air renewies the renewies you know what the renewies are there what's produced when you castrate Uranus and his blood meets with the earth.
You get the renewies and what do they do they send you oysters in the orphic hymns.
There's a beautiful one dedicated to millinowy who is the.
The one who dances with the dead.
I love this I love this when you like to worship this guy imagine this a queen.
Who dances with the dead whose power is to put you into a maniac state.
Yeah it's very bachic it's very bachic I love it I love it where are these things where are these things why don't we ever discuss these things anymore anyway and if you'll notice in the bottom so that's the that's the gad fly they call it.
Now let me go excuse me chewy go to the source go to the source.
Of Rio I want the verb Rio can we bring up Rio for me.
I want to show people I've talked about this a little bit before but this this is relevant for the dragon for us understanding the dragon and if you'll notice at the bottom of this definition of Rio right which.
To rub anoint with scented ungwents nice nice rubbing anointing stuff to wash to wash something over and you can wash with other things you don't have to be water right you wash with oils.
Yeah you can apply things this Rio is just the application process but then at the very bottom at the very bottom I rob will be with you in a second at the very bottom of this definition.
Do you know you'll see that Rio means to be stung by the gad fly so the one who is stung by the gad fly that is the Christos that individual is able to enter oyster mania and complete the mystery.
By means of the Trinity.
And this is so teria.
S T R salvation.
Nick will we ever get away from the will ever get away from the boys I'm trying from the naked boy in the garden with Jesus no right our job here as Saturnians as Satanists is to show you that naked boy.
And that means we have to go to some pretty awful places and deal with some pretty awful people.
And and see the reality.
Yes and isn't that the moment isn't that when you perceive the reality and that awakening isn't that the real profound moment.
And.
And.
And.
And.
And.
And.
And.
Ruffies it's gorgeous it's gorgeous.
Arends and drugs and how will you guys can get this anywhere you can't.
This is this is this is the depth right this is the underbelly Rob has joined us.
a Rob will go ahead and end out our satanic initiation for the day.
Rob, I know that you've been doing a lot of work and a lot of research and I know that you've been
watching questions. Is there anything you want to bring to my attention now?
Yes, quite a few things. First, I'm going to go first with a gut wrench who's been in there
ac rwy'n cael ei wneud. Rwy'n cael ei wneud. Rwy'n cael ei wneud, ac rwy'n cael ei wneud, ac rwy'n cael ei wneud. Rwy'n cael ei wneud. Rwy'n cael ei wneud. Rwy'n cael ei wneud. Rwy'n cael ei wneud. Rwy'n cael ei wneud. Rwy'n cael ei wneud. Rwy'n cael ei wneud. Rwy'n cael ei wneud. Rwy'n cael ei wneud. Rwy'n cael ei wneud. Rwy'n cael ei wneud. Rwy'n cael ei wneud. Rwy'n cael ei wneud. Rwy'n cael ei wneud. Rwy'n cael ei wneud.
Rwy'n cael ei feu hyd rhai, alech ti'n ardu'r wahne, ac oh, ond... ym Рuð.
Ym Rhunodd.
Dym ni'n gweithio effaith,呼, rydw i'n ddarparu
繁 a gyddoi'r r intersection
Rhaid am trydenau
I love it, good stuff. You should do Scrobonius Largus, too. He's the guy who talks about the witches taking the
livers of the gladiators and picking up their mouths and being like, ah, and stuff like that.
Go ahead, whoops, turn that off. Okay, I want to take you back to the last episode.
A question Lord Snappy asked, and he asked, and he's asking again, and this is through the discord,
so he says, could you ask Amen to repeat his academic guess as to who thinks is responsible for
turning the savior figure male? He answered last stream, but the internet caught off due, and he's
answered, and nobody heard it, and I put that down to, like, you're profaning, and I've noticed as
you have these cut-offs, you have these happenings, we've discussed it, and I put it down to you
profaning every internet. I think there's some sort of restraint aspect going on, but maybe now you
can answer that question. Thank you. Yeah, perhaps that restraining force is being removed. Yes, it started
out right from the beginning, right from the beginning after Medea invented the thing, right?
Heracles and his offspring took it up, took up the cult, and converted it into a masculine form
that only she was allowed to to be present for, only Medea. There's no woman that's allowed
except for Medea. There's something special about her, and since we know that in the mystery she
is the cup, then we know that there's some kind of distribution, whether it's mirrored in the
carpacrations and the nicolations, whether it's mirrored in them more accurately with their
semen use in Helen, for example, and contributing her semen. If that may be why the right allows
this one female figure, but it is turned to a completely male initiation, and it's pedorastic.
It's a pedorastic initiation. So can we turn from the pedophilia? No. Jesus is arrested in a public
park for an STR reason, and Hercules is providing us with the very same example, the same
religion. It's the derivation, the maturation of the child, and in the process you derive the
communion. Let this cup pass, perhaps unpleasant, but it's one of the avenues. So it looks like
as a Bronze Age phenomenon, this serpent on a pole is used as a feminine art that then can be
kind of taken and changed a little bit into a masculine art, and hence, and you always have to
have naked boys, right? Naked boys, naked boys, right? All the naked boys. I can't stop
educating you about the pedophilia in antiquity. We can't. Yeah, it's the reason that those priests
that are involved, according to the gentleman, the Monsignor that I knew, it's the reason that
they're so arrogant, and when they get caught in their ways, in their ritualistic
rape of children, that they get upset like it's your fault. You know, they should be free to do
this. I'm trying to show you a world that exists that you don't know because you are following
the fairytale dream that everybody is having. I'm offering you the rod with the serpent wound
around it to come out of the dream. Rob, what else questions do we have? Yeah, I love that. What
well said. I like that. I'm going to go to Darren G next. This is of discord too. I'm not saying
encourage everybody going discord. It's just these are the questions that I've asked previously
and created like 24 hours before the show. So I'm not going to ignore them. I'm going to
pull them out. There was a conversation you had on discord and the warrior poet
Arman was talking about is one of our discord calls that I don't think we ever got to the bottom
of who it actually was, who the warrior poet is. Now, I need my memory, John. It really bugged me
because I've got a feeling when you want to see so what we'll do now with a marble head
for me, maybe. Maybe I don't know. Can we bring the dawn? Is that the trick? Can we bring the dawn?
Yeah, please. Excellent. Yeah. So who is this warrior poet? Yeah, who is the warrior poet? Right?
Today we're introducing you to the dragon. So we get to see the one who guards the voice
and that voice uses the power of the muse to write your surroundings, to write your existence.
Yeah, the dragon guards that voice. And there's only one way, there's only one way to master that
voice if you master the dragon. Yeah. Okay. So does that, I answer to you in parables.
Yeah. So that those of you with ears to hear will be able to hear. Yeah, I wanted to read you.
There's a little section. I didn't want this to get missed tonight, but I had brought you guys,
Valerius Flacus, who writes about the dragon, and he's, Medea is bringing Jason to the dragon.
And Jason is afraid and, you know, she's guiding him because he's big jigging. And
he sees the lightning in the flashes. And he says, what is this? And she says, that's the dragon.
And he says, how can I possibly get the fleece? Because he wants the voice that's on the fleece.
And what's the dragon to sleep? But in very eloquent Latin,
it, it tells us that this dragon has a crest from which flashes great lightning. Yes,
here we go. Oh, this is wonderful. Look at this. Yes. Yes. Yes. So she said these things
and being furious. She ran across the path. She carried herself over the path, right? With these
frenzied steps. She is in Oystromania. No, bring us the text. Forget my face. We don't need my face.
This companion of hers, this yason. This yason. What does he do? He clings to her.
And, and, and he's, he's pitting her. He's clean to her as a scaredy cat, yet he's pitting her.
He saw this gigantic flame coming from the middle of the clouds.
Get your karaoke on ready. Right. Get your karaoke on ready. I'm showing you the dragon.
Right. The clouds with the fire from in them. Good. Go back. Bring us the text. Oh, bring us.
Yes. I love you guys, flakas. Thank you so much. Um, yeah. And so let me keep reading. Um, et
saiva, we branteis, lukei dinabras, beating the darkness. Right. With savage light. Savage light.
Right. He is the execution of the power of the light bringer.
Nope. We want to stay here.
Quis rubor isti poli. Cod tan lwgubre, bwyd efo'r ffordd sut sedus. Oh, look at that word sedus.
We got the word star. Yeah. Jason says, what is this? What is this redness around the pole?
Right. What is this star? Sedus? What is this star that shines with such morning?
That's what he said. And so the text says the Virgo. See where it says Virgo? Wirgo.
The Virgo. Wait a minute. This is Medea we're talking about. Right. Yes. She is the Virgo. She
is the Minerva. Yes. Um, what does she do? She answers. She returns back to an answer
to her, to her fearful little companion. And she says this ipsus in oculos et luminatorua
draconis a spicis, a spicis, excuse me. And notice, notice that this is using language from a guy
who read the sibling books. This is in a meter. Correct? Okay. So watch what happens.
ipsus in oculos. Behold in. Look, look, a spicis. You're looking at what? You're looking at the eyes
and the lumina torua of the draconis of the dragon. You're looking into that
illuminating terrifying torua, that thing that puts you in sudden shock that's coming from his eyes.
The word dragon, the word dragon comes from the Greek to see, to see. And it's a very common,
very common, um, saying, statement that the blind dragon sees.
Yeah. I'm Tiresias, for example, right? Seeing the Virgin. Tiresias sees the Virgin.
And the cost is his sight in return for which she gives him ionic vision.
Yeah. Gorgeous. Anyway, it says it continues to say the dragon is afraid of only Medea alone.
Okay. So do you feel the cult? We kind of tried to run in there. We tried to run in there with
Hercules. We tried to sneak in that door and see what's going on. This is the precursor to
Judaism and to Christianity. This is the mystery that is driving Judaism and Christianity.
Okay. More questions. We still have a couple of minutes before the hour.
Excuse pronunciation. I'm going to go with Pierrot, I think. Are you interesting going to the
Hercules or Heracles? Just in general, there's a discussion. I'm sitting at my wheelhouse.
No idea. So I'm interested in understanding what that means, to be honest.
Yeah. Yeah. The pillars of Heracles and the labors of Heracles and the opening of the gateway
to Atlantis. I knew it would not be too long until somebody brought up Atlantis. What is it with
Atlantis? All of a sudden, people are looking for the thing. Yeah. What do you think? What do you
think, Rob? Yeah. All these things are going to be due and come up. It's all out there and people
read this stuff and it comes out. I like the method echo in that respect. You'll read something
and then you'll repeat the last thing you've read or the last thing you've heard. Rather than
thinking about it and reflecting upon it, complying to it, you move on to the next one and the next
one. You start to begin to gather a list of interesting facts, but you really need to
acknowledge what you're reading and reflect upon it because you've got to take that to the higher
level in my estimation. That's what I try to do. That's my goal. I think we could safely say that's
the path of reason, isn't it? It sounds like you're one of these crazy Saturnians who follows
that reason to its conclusion. I love that, Rob. I love that. Thank you. We've got Brian Ryan following
instructions from previous stream. He's endured some cannabis with the powers of the gods and he's
now ready to become an oestromania. It doesn't have to be a question. I've just picked out comments
as well, which I feel, and it's like that. He's now ready for the oestromania. I want to bring
up for his sake. I didn't put it together. I just stole it from Alice. By the way, everything
that I do, guys, is stolen right from the news. I just ask her and she opens it up.
Somebody asked me today to come and to do the sortase in front of you. Somebody else has asked
me to do this in the past. You're looking for something, so show me this and you take a book
off the shelf from the library and there it is. I have to give credit to her because I just ask her
the muse and she shows me. That's the dawning. That's the dawning. There's a reason we worship
Urania. There's a reason the Arlong are using the Areis. There's a reason they're using it.
If you could understand these and all this stuff is buried in the language, watch this.
This is your question for oestromania. It is brilliant. Look at this chart.
Look at this chart and I just want you to see on the left side in the entry.
Yeah. Oestroboleo, that literally is just to throw or to beat something with the
oestros, to inflict the oestros. Oestrodinatos driven round and round by the gadfly.
Well, that's an interesting. You mean you have a word for me to be chased by the sting of the
gadfly? Yes, they do. I want you just to jump down to oestromanes. Oestromanes, mad from the
gadfly sting. So when we have the sibling oracles, that's okay. Leave it up. When we have the, please.
When we have the sibling oracles and she says, I enter into oestromania, you will know that she
is not following fairy tale as we do. That she is using a drug compound. It's a compound. In order
to enter into a state, a quantum state where she can draw down the stars and bring dawn.
Oh, it's gorgeous. Yeah, I'm glad you went there.
Because I wonder Brian Ryan, do you really want oestromania, that frenzy, that fury?
Yeah, yeah. I must consider that fury. It's not frenzy.
Moving on. Cranium maximus has listened to half of Cain today at work and so far it appears
that we should hear might be the bringer of truth. It's just a comment. I like that comment.
Any thoughts on that comment? Because you were asking, it's in response, I guess,
kind of a response to who was saying that. Yeah, I think he, yeah, I think that commenter
would appreciate Petrarch for bringing
it up.
I'm even muted. I'm talking while I'm muted as it is left me alone. This is my night there.
Welcome back. Thank you. I was talking to the gallery on mute asking the gallery,
am I, does anyone in the gallery lip read? I'm not made for YouTube.
You're doing great and I need your profound intellect to help me break down. Most of you
don't realize it, but Rob is digging into the deepest and most beautiful British soil possible
and he is digging into his roots with with how this purple, how this burning purple was accepted
and received where his ancestors walked and lived beautiful. But you would like that last
commenter, you would like the Petrarch because he is bringing Veritas. He puts Veritas in the position
of the muse. So I would say you are very Petrarchian with your approach and I believe that it smells
of the fine incense of purification. I believe that I can smell your purification. Love it. Love it.
Okay. A question mewn now. How do you think the devil's wall was the trick of Robert
Sudden? Would you recommend the devil's wall? I've no, I've not. The devil's wall, tell us Rob,
tell us about the devil's walk. I'm completely, completely unfamiliar. No, you're not. You know
who Robert Sudden is. You just need to remind him, I'm sure. The poet from the Lake District.
Well, obviously, Charlie paid him a visit once he'd settled down. But when we're talking about
Byron, then I like to also include the devil's walk. He met his friends and he must have had similar
ideas and similar methods of laying this down. It's, he was a working man from my understanding.
He comes from a layman background, not Craig Least. And I like, it's similar to my background.
So I appreciate the terminology he uses and each part, each part you can go into it and
it's offering quite a lot of knowledge that you can research and you'll spend a good deal of time
researching if you can reach wherever you're called. Does this dead, does this dead man lead us to the
lead us to the virgin who's half viper in the cave? Does he lead us to her? Well, in part, in part
early goes, he goes in part. But for me, he gave me a better impression of the world
and how it runs essentially. That was the reason I got out of that, out of the devil's walk.
Anyway, I just want to suggest it. For those of you who want to read and discuss, I encourage
you and that would be something good for the, for the, the inquisition or what is it called?
We talked about getting bitten by the Godfly. I got bitten by the don't, the don't fly
when live stream is in the mix. Yeah. Rob, that's a, that's a discord discussion though.
You need to bring that up and resurrect these guys for the people to see. You've been working with
numerous authors. And I mean, Mary Shelley is out there for all of you women specifically who want
to hear the, the voice at its most clear or what they call in Greek legaea. You can either read
Edgar on pos legaea or Mary Shelley. And you've been, you've been working with Mary Shelley, Rob.
What, what can you tell us about? I mean, I heard she crept into the caves at Kumai and she was able
to find the leaves upon which were written the oracles and that she was able to rearrange those
into a story. I mean, there's a reason that Frankenstein is Prometheus, right? I mean, wow,
what's going on? She wrote, she wrote Frankenstein while in the company of Byron and then the company
of Percy. It was the, the, the, behold a kind of competition and writer and a cult story,
something off the wall and an 18 year old Mary Shelley, Shelley came up with this Frankenstein story
in that competition, one competition where it's real. But she's the history of Mary Shelley, a mother,
a father, very interesting story, very interesting group to go down and you can see why Percy was
attractive. It's a, it's a very, very, very interesting narrative and you put me
onto it basically through Queen Mav. You sent me to Queen Mav and I found, I went down to
Braddysole and found a cave. Yeah, you'll find it. I really enjoyed the last man on all day.
I can't take credit. At the time, I've got
Orgy's of Words at the time, which is revealing Nannys' mystery terminology. Oh, supposedly,
it doesn't go deep enough for my liking. What went deeper for my liking was the last man. I was
reading that and listening to an audio group and when I went to the last man audio group,
I was receiving more mystery information than I was in a text book that's out there to reveal
mystery terminology. It was just quite astonishing how much information Mary Shelley
gives in that novel. Because you're devoted, that's perfect, perfect wrap up. Because you're
devoted to the muse. Do you see what he did? Do you see what the Satanist did? Oh, congregation.
Do you see the Satanist with his shaved head? Do you see what he did? He worships the muse
and follows her and she explains to and shows him a reality that allows him to be awake.
He's able to understand in a way that he normally isn't. Can we bring up, Rob, just because you said that
and just because the commenter, Nick, said about the pedophilia. Can we get away from the pedophilia?
Just because he said that. Can we end with the devil and pedophilia? Is that okay? Let's go.
Where are we going to go in this text? I'm going to bring it up to you. It is. Oh, you're going to love this.
It is. I only remembered it, Rob, because you brought up knownness and nobody ever talks about
knownness, right? It's these two lines, please, the upo lines. Thank you, Chewie. I wouldn't be able to
do this without you. Yeah. Yeah. Thank you. Look at these lines and Rob, this is taken right out of
the heart of the Bacchic Satanism, the Bacchic Satanian age.
There's our word for star. Isn't that nice? Aster at the end of that line.
U po emos stelag iddyn eos fhoros. Nice. That's the end of this sentence.
So, not yet. What is this translated into? Not yet has my star arrived or been drawn
on having bathed in the outpouring, having bathed, having been bathed in those waters.
Not yet has ios fhoros stelag iddyn. Not yet has the bringer of dawn shown his holy light.
Yeah. Isn't that nice? This is directly, you can remove it now. This is directly, and why do I say
there's pedophilia? This is the derivation of ios fhoros from the waters in the book of the
Apocalypse and the Revelation. You will all be familiar with, because then, well, maybe not everybody,
but a lot of people will be familiar with the dragon's use of the waters and what that means. Now,
if you go back and look at it in the book of the Apocalypse, now it will suddenly start to make sense.
I am profaning for you this mystery so that you can make sense of it. Not yet has the morning star
been drawn from the waters. What is that holy line that is penetrating our hexametric
oracular wisdom? Oh, isn't that nice? Where's the connection with the pedophilia? This is in a section
that has to do with the boy lover of Apollo, the sun god. Remember, we're in the astral religion now
with the Saturnian cult. This is the sun god we're talking about, and of course, if we're going to
talk about dawn, dawn is the culmination of the entire cycle. It is everything that the great
mother represents. Are you kidding me? You mean Lucifer represents the, is the bringer of the great
mother? Yes. Yes, the bringer of dawn. Oh, it's simply great. Where was that exit from?
Oh, that was book 11. That was book 11 of notice in his Dionysiaca, which is the war,
like the one we had tonight when Dionysus went over to India and fought the gods of India
and brought them drunkenness and ecstasy, and you'll say, oh, that's the soma plant. What about the
soma? Right, right, jump in there, dive around, get into that cult stuff. Right, who's going to,
is anybody going to read the antidotes? Yeah, we need to do it. Okay, I think we've had,
I can't waste more than, much more than an hour of people's time. I don't want to.
Can I give a quick shout out to Nancy Devine. She's reading Byron, loving Byron. Please,
what does Nancy say? What does Nancy say? I've got to read more Byron. Re-read is what I mean.
What's to think about and exquisite language. The re-reading is amazing, which I appreciate
because you've missed things in the first reading, the second reading you go back, the third reading,
the fourth reading, and there's so much depth to these texts that you can kick a busy grouse,
kick me busy grouse, and I appreciate what Nancy's doing. She's engaging with the texts,
recognition. She's following the way, she's following the way, and she's using necromantic
techniques to do so. She is raising the dead in honoring the muse. Yeah, yeah, this is
I do want one more time to bring up, can you bring up the name of the dragon for the people?
This will be the last thing that I throw in, but for the people who can't really visualize
the dragon because your mind is stuck in Tolkien and you're thinking dragons from Tolkien, right?
Who by the way is a thief, but you know many of the best authors are. So you're thinking this dragon.
I want you to see this is not, this is not that dragon. This is an individual and what you have
on the screen in front of you or what are called the Orphic Gramatha. These are the Orphic writings
or the Orphic letters and our text tells us that this is the name. This is what the dragon is
called. If you could translate this, you would be able to possess. If you could translate this,
you would have the image that is in the name and with the image of the name, you would be able
to possess the power of the dragon. Isn't that cool? That's one of the coolest things I've ever seen,
right out of antiquity people, right out of antiquity. Do the scholars at Harvard do this stuff?
No, they don't. Do they do the medicine? No, they don't. Right, the safe?
This time I'm not on mute, you know what? It's lacking strength at the end, hasn't it?
I'm going to the chat. I can see next in the chat. I'm up next.
I'm not made for YouTube. I'm not made for standing in like this.
Other people are really good at it. Amen's really good at it. Thank you.
All right, guys. All right, guys, I'm holding you and I'm not respecting you to keep holding you.
I appreciate everyone and I'm next satanic initiation. I'm considering you've asked me,
people have asked me to show them a magical operation or to bring it to an accessible point.
It's the same thing. Keep the question about the asking if I will do the sortase
in front of you visibly so that you can see it and experience it and what it is.
Can we communicate with these sources? Can we create a template where the muse is able to function?
I will ask the muse. I will ask the muse if she wouldn't mind.
Rob, I thank you for joining and to everybody out there. I thank you for your time.
I'd like to thank the gallery. Thanks for your comments. Thanks for your questions.
They're very much appreciated. I need them. They're going to be my bread.
Please send them and I'll get them up and try and address them in the best way possible.
The best format possible. Let me know what you think, what you think about what you think
about what's gone tonight and I'll try and improve. I've really enjoyed everything tonight.
And with that, we say Hail Satan. Yep, Hail Satan. Goodnight.
Y Llywodraeth Cymru
