I let that liquor drown in my days Now I'm taking my last ride
I paid the highest price you can pay And I'm on my way to Potter's Field
Potter's Grave is where I'll be To rest until the end of time
For all eternity
Welcome back to Lady Babylon. This is Bible Study.
And we are here tonight. I've got you the direct consent of the devil.
I am bringing you texts. We're going to first dive into that dark place in the Bible
where we bring out the most lurid sex acts.
We're going to bring these to the fore. And then we're going to talk about
we're going to talk about sacrificing your children.
We're going to talk about burning off mortality.
And we're going to talk about drinking abortions tonight on Lady Babylon.
Tonight we're going to have to dig deep and uncomfortable.
I can tell you right off from comments that I've been looking at.
This is not going where you think it is going.
You see, I don't take that common path that the religious historian from Yale does.
I don't take that path. We're going to go to some sources and look at some of the most hardcore Greek on the planet.
Hardcore. We're going right into the middle of it.
But before we do it, I need to pass on a message.
The message is I've been talking to preachers.
Preachers out there. I know in my audience, I know there are several of you.
Preachers who have come out. Preachers who have seen the light and died again.
Yes. I would love for you to come on the show.
I would appreciate it if you would come on and stand up and give your thoughts perspective for the rest of us.
If you are a priest or who has lost the faith or if you are a nun who's thrown away the habit.
I would love to talk about your experiences in order to come.
Same rules for everybody set for us by Lucian.
Either you cut your hair completely off or you present yourself in public to honor Aphrodite.
And how do you do that?
I think you're adult enough to figure that out.
Or you can come on as a challenge for a fight club in which case you just have to be wearing beautiful ladies lingerie and a platinum blonde wig.
Those are the same rules.
But I'm being contacted by people who really do have good input.
I'd love to have you guys on.
So I'll leave away for us to get in touch, which is just my professional email.
And we'll go from there.
Let me know.
Now Devil's Word.
Tonight we've got to go deep into the abortion in order to get there.
I've got to take you through the Virgin.
So I want tonight to hit you with these images and this particularly vampiric poetry.
This is called Poetry of Mike.
Poetry of Mike
Poetry of Mike
According to the pagans, justice was the last goddess to abandon mortals.
Justice.
If you have justice, you have everything.
You have freedom.
So let's let's proceed with the Virgin.
I'm going to give you a group of texts now.
And I want you to realize we're going to, as the ship is going right now, blast it off.
We're moving through time.
We're coming to a place that's going to make you uncomfortable.
Now I know I've said that quite a few times and we've talked about drugs and we've talked about sex.
Today we're going to talk about abortion in antiquity, but we're not going to talk about like a medical historian
or like a social scientist.
We're going to talk to you about it through the text.
Yes, just directly through the text.
And these are not all abortion texts.
I'm going to have to take you in the cult doors.
And once we get into the cult doors, and these are the things that the people who are charging you right now in their channels.
And they got this site.
And if you go there, you can watch these videos and see the mystery.
It doesn't exist.
They cannot come here.
So I am inviting all of you now to step on outside of this ship, this beautiful ship that takes us through space and time.
And I want you to look.
I want you to look at the Virgin.
I want you to look at her right.
And I want us to find out what are we doing with the kiddos.
Let's go to the first.
Let's go to the very first one tonight.
Our first text here is yep.
Very good.
This is brought to you by a physician.
And I just want to throw out there.
I just want to throw out my glasses.
I'm going to need that closer.
Thank you very much.
So what are we doing?
This is a text for people.
I'm just going to translate it.
It's a text for those who were smearing this stuff into their skin.
What are they smearing?
They're smearing that dipsass.
What kind of dipsass?
What kind of snake venom?
The stuff that is unstoppable.
The stuff that is incurable.
And what happens when they do this?
Well, a lot of them die.
And I know that some of them also consume the dipsass venom of that specific viper, the horn viper.
The stuff that makes you thirsty and cry out, especially when you're getting crucified.
Oh, I'm thirsty.
Here we go.
Are you ready?
And I didn't mention them yet.
I'm not going to mention them.
Okay.
And what do they do?
What are they also doing?
They're eating this.
They're drinking this particularly antique wine.
Yeah, this is old stuff.
This is the aged stuff.
They drink it along with the dipsass.
And what happens to them?
Well, you know what happens to a sailor when he gets abandoned?
He's out at sea.
He doesn't have anything to do there.
He's got to get some water.
So what does he do?
Eventually he's going to get thirsty enough to drink the sea water.
And we all know what happens to those people, right?
I'm thirsty.
I'm thirsty.
I'm thirsty.
This is what the physician says happens to those who are using these venoms.
Yes.
Yeah.
Fantastic.
Let's go to the next one.
Why am I taking you to snake venoms?
Don't worry.
It's all related.
I'm going to take you to Cleopatra now.
Now all of you religious historians out there at Harvard and Princeton and Yale,
you worthless bag of bones.
You would never get such thing.
I'm probably looking at this for the first time in your life.
Let me talk to you, Jake, you Harvard.
Let me show you something for the first time that you have never seen.
I'm talking to the oldest, most experienced of your people.
You don't know this.
You don't work the sources.
You sell it and the devil says the word from the devil is this is your prison.
This is your prison purveyors of garbage.
This is your prison.
Look at this to Cleopatra.
Look at this people.
I got a recipe for Cleopatra's dies.
Oh, what?
What is she doing?
I just want you to look from the fourth line down, fourth line down, 10, 11, 12.
This is line 12.
I just want you to look at the second word.
Chiesto.
Let her Christ herself toy farmacoy with the drug.
Let her Christ herself.
This is after she shaved her head.
Did you see it in the text there?
No, you didn't, but I'll tell you it's there.
This is how you guys at Harvard, you can pause it.
You can go back and read it and educate yourself.
Fantastic.
All you religious historians here.
Yeah.
Here we go.
Why is Cleopatra doing this?
Cleopatra is in the line of the Medwa.
Right.
She is that priestess of Isis.
She is that incarnation.
She is.
Yeah.
And you'll notice that the verb Rio, which, which is seminarian.
Wait, I'm going to mention seminaries.
Let me get my whip.
Which is seminarian.
No, that's okay.
Just sit there.
When the seminarians come out and all of the ancillary support group for
seminaries, everything that comes out around them, that includes the people
studying the religions.
It includes the founders of Yale using Hebrew.
It does.
It includes them all.
What happens when you believe a lie?
Your timeline fractures and you go the way of the lie.
You take the wrong handed path.
And what happens?
You put the fake history up.
You and I as Satanists are here for one, one reason.
We want the text.
We want the evidence.
We want what it says.
We'll make the decisions from there.
What we want it.
I'm giving you access tonight.
I just gave you access to Cleopatra.
What is she doing?
She's doing the right.
Now let's go look.
Yeah.
Let's run and look at the right and see what it is.
Give me the next little bit that I've got up there.
Oh, before we get there, why don't you see the Trojisco?
These are little pills.
Nobody ever believes me when I tell them.
But the Trojisco.
Do you remember the wheels that Isaiah talks about?
Boom.
You remember the voice of God coming in?
Boom with the wheels.
This is them.
What are they?
Little lozenges.
Little lozenges, boys and girls, full of goody, good, good drugs.
Right, right?
Good drugs like Synthemask.
These are drugs that you put in places.
And the Trojisco is the one that you put in your backside.
Rectal, rectal administration for the scientists the most.
Yes.
Or you can dissolve these things in wine as well,
which they typically do.
But here for Kefalogia, if you want, if you have head pain,
they call it head pain.
If you got head pain antiquity,
you can take it and you can put in a little bit of drugs
that will put you to sleep.
Fantastic.
Fantastic.
And you can use that rectally
and end up in a perfect place under the supervision of a priestess.
Fantastic.
Let's keep going.
Find these priestesses next.
Yep.
Next text.
Oh, this is great.
Now, this is from Ezekiel.
Thank you, prophet Ezekiel.
See, you guys thought the theriac was a beast.
I think you call it a beast, one of the watchers told me.
You guys call it the beast of the apocalypse.
Right?
No.
The theriac is a substance.
It's a compound substance that is half of the communion,
if you were.
If these courses that you took online
or through these different sites,
if these professors who are offering this crap
had any truth to what they said,
they would know these things, but they don't.
They don't know these cults.
They don't know what the mystery was doing.
These texts do, though.
Let's bring out the text.
Am I going to mention someone?
No, I'm not.
Okay, let's get out next.
So this is Ezekiel.
This is that stone prophet.
Let's read what he says.
And you take the, blow it up to me,
and you take the scapegoat.
You take the scapegoat of the calcaseus.
Wait, you take the what of the who?
Bring me up.
Bring me up.
I got to know what the what is.
What is the scapegoat?
I've got it for a definition.
Bring it up.
Look at this to people's scale.
Any kind of equipment, a tire or a peril.
It's your equipment.
Leave it on.
It's your equipment.
Are you ready?
Everybody.
This is going to get a little bit tense.
Are you ready?
Look at number two at the bottom.
It equals aidoion.
If I tell you to bring your aidoion,
I'm telling you to come to an orgy.
That's your equipment that you're going to be using
at our orgyistic right.
You're going to be using that to find your way
to the orgasmos.
Oh, love it.
Love it.
You don't understand it until you've been there
and seen it and it changes you.
And I'm going to read you a description
of how it changes you through the eyes
of somebody who was treating patients
who had been through it.
Fantastic.
That's a write up.
That's like that's right in your face.
This is going to get good.
Okay.
Back one more time.
I just want to make sure I didn't miss anything
in that last one.
Yeah.
And so this is our tool of what?
This is our tool of Calhases.
That's our tool of glory.
Paul uses this.
Paul uses this expression.
It's our tool of glory.
Does it make sense for all you seminarians?
Listen up.
Does it make sense?
This would be roughly at the same time
as Paul would be writing.
Yeah.
Is it stylistically similar
to that first testament, coin A?
Yes, it is.
You seminarians?
You evangelicals?
I know you haven't.
You Catholics?
I know you haven't seen this.
I know you haven't read it.
Don't pretend to know Greek.
You don't.
Let's go.
Let's go back to the source.
So what is this glory?
Right?
So we've got this tool of glory.
He says, you took your tool of glory
made from gold and silver,
the gold and silver which I gave you.
Remember, this is an argument.
Leave it.
This is an argument between God,
between God.
What is this scene?
God is arguing.
He's arguing with a woman
whom he treats as his lover.
Yeah.
And what has his lover done?
Oh, goodness.
Goodness.
You didn't know it, but Jehovah got cuckolded.
Yeah.
Jehovah, Jehovah Yahweh
is a cuckold God.
Let's see.
Can we see it?
Yeah.
You took your instincts complaining.
You took your glory
and you gilded yourself a dildo
out of silver and gold.
The gold and silver that I gave you,
you made an arsenicos eikonas.
You made a man image.
You made a phallus.
You made a phallus.
And what did you do with this phallus?
You expornated on it.
Look at that second line.
Last line.
You expornated.
What does pornelo mean?
It means to have intercourse
or to engage in religious worship.
You mean their word for engaging
and what you and I and people
who are part of the sisterhood of frustration
whose faces will crack
at the slightest bit of sexual emotion.
Yes.
Do you know what?
Do you know what they were doing?
They were worshiping.
But their word for worship
is the word for intercourse.
Their word for worship is the word for intercourse.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Fantastic.
So they expornated.
They expornated.
They thoroughly entered the job, right?
They got the job done completely.
That X is intensifying.
Go back to the text, please, Joey.
The one we just tacked.
Good, good, good.
And what did they do?
They expornated in our ties.
Yeah.
In our ties.
Yeah.
Oh my goodness.
They're using these devices.
You know, at the worship of the Bona Dea in Rome,
you get thousands of women together.
Just women who use dildos.
On themselves and on each other.
Don't be surprised.
It's a novel concept for us.
But for them, it was a part of your education
and the expression of your sexual health.
Yeah.
That sexual health is a cosmic health.
It is wrapped up in the cosmos.
If you don't want people to be running out
and killing other people for the sake of not having
any sort of intimacy in their life,
then you should keep up the direction you're going.
But if you want to be purifying citizens,
to be better citizens, to be less violent,
to be more unified, these are the kind of rights
that you have that spring up.
Mystery rights.
Mystery rights are unifying.
Unifying.
Fantastic.
Let's go to the next source.
This is, I love this.
This is just Paul.
I just wanted you to see where he said,
oh, his big glory thing was in Christ.
Right?
Good.
Keep it next.
Good.
Thank you, Paul.
Have a seat.
No, that's all.
That's all I needed.
Here's a great, big, long text.
I'm going to translate this to you really fast.
It's going to be really dirty.
And you took sons and daughters
who you gave birth to
and you sacrificed them to the gods
for the sake of analysis.
Bring up the next.
Analysis.
What is analysis?
Look at the definition number two.
Definition number two.
Consumption.
Consumption.
What is being consumed in the sacrifices of the children?
Their mortality is being consumed.
And every once in a while, it kills them.
Oh, let's see what they're doing with these fumigations.
Let's see what they're doing to the babies.
Right?
They're doing this to the babies to burn off the mortality.
This is gorgeous.
Let's keep going with that same giant text up there.
That was disturbing.
Fantastic.
Yes.
And what else are they doing?
Caesphaxa.
Statechna.
Su.
Caedocas alta.
Yeah.
So you're sacrificing these children
and you're giving them for the sake of this apotropa...
Apotropaic exercise.
This is literally in the Greek where it is.
It's apotropais this thigh.
What is that for?
What is that for?
You are averting evil.
What do you do when Lady Justice...
What do you do?
Bring up some images.
What do you do when Lady Justice needs support?
You give her that support.
If you do not, you have a society that is no longer clean.
They have become tainted.
A lie is not necessarily a lie.
Did God say, remember who is the first biblical liar?
It's not the devil.
The devil is the first one to point out the biblical liar extraordinaire.
And that's God.
God, Jehovah, the guy who's screaming in his wife now
for what I'm about to show you.
She did behind his back.
He's screaming.
A lie.
If you lose justice, you've got nothing between what is false and what is true.
That's not natural.
Justice is what you should naturally possess by following reason.
Fantastic.
That's the pagan way, right?
I don't mean to lecture.
Let's get back to the text because you're not here to hear my thoughts.
You're here to see what the texts are saying.
And so there's an even greater bad thing that you did.
You can't imagine.
You can't remember when you were an infant.
Whoops, now I can't see the text.
Are we okay?
Okay.
Good.
Sorry.
I think we hit an asteroid.
We hit an asteroid.
We're back up, Chewie.
Fantastic.
Thank you for taking care of that.
You don't remember when you were an infant, do you?
And what happened to you?
You were Goomne.
He's talking to a woman now.
You were Goomne.
You were naked.
And you were in a place of exposure.
And you were baptized or dipped or died in the blood.
And you lived.
Pull it back right away.
What you just had described to you from the Bible is the right of the child sacrifice.
And when I say sacrifice, I say the burning of the incense.
That is the Greek sacrifice.
Are they killing their children?
Are they killing their children?
Do you really think?
Do you really think?
They take all of these new mothers and they're just going to step forward and follow the
fairy tale that Christianity has taught you that there's this great statue of Molek.
And we take our children.
It burns.
Man, the mother comes in.
They sacrifice to their gods.
No, that's a fairy tale.
People, he just described to you what the ritual is.
They are burning off the mortality of a child by subjecting it to this process of fumigation.
Do some of the children die in the process?
Yes.
It's sad to report that some of them do.
Okay.
This is not what you've been told.
Check the text out itself.
See what it says.
Let's go back to it.
Let's keep reading.
Keep reading.
This is fantastic.
I appreciate everybody's attention.
I'm going to make it in time tonight.
Yeah.
And what happened when all of this was taking place?
There's a great evil that was behind it.
And what is that evil?
You built.
What did you do?
You built places for, go ahead and bring that.
You built places for prostitution.
He says you built them in the roads.
And ahead of every road is a place of prostitution.
Is the temple of Aphrodite.
You built your society around this.
You built it.
Okay.
Interesting.
Interesting that Jehovah is so pissed about society building.
Wow.
That's something.
Perhaps we should all live in a tribe somewhere.
Right?
Jehovah's got terrible advice.
For those of you who haven't finished the Bible, Jehovah's advice is always terrible.
And he's the very first liar.
So, oh my God.
Let's bring up that same text again.
I'm going to finish it off.
I just want to make sure at the bottom.
Look at verse 26.
And you ex-pornated with the sons of Egypt.
Uh-oh.
See why God is really mad?
It's because she was ex-pornating.
His lover was ex-pornating with Egyptians.
And what are these Egyptian men doing?
They are megalosarcos.
Wow.
You mean the entire...
Megalosarcos.
You mean all of this is about the size.
Megalosarcos means big meat.
Big meat.
Literally.
Big meat.
Here's the meat as the flesh.
As the flesh.
I'm going to cut you to the flesh.
We have the ancient Greek saying, bring it up one more time.
I'm going to cut you to flesh.
I want you to look, look, look.
Oh my God.
It's that fleshy desire.
Your sexual desire is in that organ.
When you think of that organ,
that organ contains that desire,
that overwhelming drive.
That's what it contains.
You went after big meat.
Literally.
Big meat.
Yeah.
Shame on you, I guess.
I mean, good for her.
That's the problem.
When your vocabulary is only 8,000 words long, right?
Yeah.
You know, it's like, uh, it's not big enough.
You know what I mean?
It's just not big enough.
The devil will tell you the truth.
The devil will tell you the truth.
You see what, you see how big it is?
Yeah.
These are the Megalo.
These are the ones with the big ones.
All right.
Okay.
Fantastic.
Let's go to the next passage.
We're getting to the abortion for those of you who are waiting,
who have come here sickly looking for the abortion.
Yeah.
Don't ever make an agreement with your neighbors.
He says, don't.
Anybody around you don't make it because you're going to end up
exporting with their gods.
And what's going to happen?
They're going to invite you and you're going to end up going and
you're going to end up.
What does that last line say?
You're going to end up eating.
Look at the second to last word.
Greek students.
Heimaton.
Heimaton.
Oh my God.
You're going to end up eating blood.
You're waiting for the virgin.
Right?
You're waiting for her.
How do we get to the abortion?
How do we get to the virgin's abortion?
We get there through the blood.
That blood of that virgin savior.
That has the power to open your eyes.
That is what we call the aqua-wita, the water of life.
Okay.
Or do you hear the cult?
Right?
It's through that.
What are they doing?
What are they doing with that virgin?
They're administering to herd drugs that are verifiable abortifations.
A lot of these work by contracting the muscles in the uterus.
Forcefully expelling the fetus.
Now, of course, the fetus in ritual with the virgin doesn't exist yet.
We partake of that life essence through the process of drinking her blood in Ritu.
Fantastic.
Fantastic.
Let's keep going.
Boom.
With the next one, fantastic.
Pull that down.
I want you to notice I just translated that as blood and if you will look at the last
line of all of these translations, they will invite you and you will eat their sacrifices.
There's no word for sacrifice there.
The new living translation and you will go with them.
Wait.
Sacrificial meals.
You're going to eat sacrificial meals together.
Interesting.
Well, that certainly civilizes it.
Okay.
What about the third one?
You eat the sacrifice.
Now, why are they all saying sacrifice because children?
A thousand years ago, there was a lie that altered our timeline and that lie said this
is the holy language of this text.
Only it wasn't the holy language of that text and that text was the original.
It's not a translation and I'm about to show you how this can't be a translation.
Are you ready?
Are you ready?
Let's go back to the...
Go ahead.
Hit it.
Yeah.
This is why they all say sacrifice because they all looked at the lie.
The oldest text we have is the Septuagint of the Bible and it is a native Greek.
Don't believe the fairy tales.
Follow the evidence.
Ask somebody, please, from the devil.
Here's the word of the devil.
Anybody from a seminary who starts talking to you or from a church who starts talking
to you about the sacred Hebrew, ask them how many Hebrew medical texts are there.
And when they tell you there are none, ask them again, bombard them.
How about pharmacology?
How about astrology?
How about any of the things that were in the museum?
There aren't any.
Why?
Because they weren't being written and why weren't they being written?
Because the language was dead.
The language was dead and had been for many hundreds of years.
Fantastic.
Let's go back to the living language that captured it.
That's all I'm saying.
Let's go back to what the evidence has for us.
Now you can see why all the people who make such a big deal out of the Dead Sea Scrolls,
you see why they do it.
Do you know how many scrolls?
Do you know how many pieces of parchment?
How many pieces, fragments that we've got of papyri?
Do you know how many of those are in Greek for straight up Greek?
Oh my God, there's so many that you would drown if you threw them all in the swimming pool.
All these papyri fragments, you could drown in them.
Yes, the Dead Sea Scrolls.
The Dead Sea Scrolls, I'm going to tell you right now.
There's an entire museum to them in Israel.
Yeah, and I'm going to have to tell you this.
They are translations of Greek texts that were with them.
Oh my goodness, somebody was trying to resurrect the liturgical dead language.
And we, because of our position looking through history, think just the opposite.
We see ourselves as in a mirror.
We are the reflection.
Isn't that great?
You're not seeing yourself for who you are.
You're seeing a reflection.
Let's go through it.
I love this.
Let's hit the next text.
Hit it.
Hit it.
Drive.
We're taking these things back, right?
And what else did they do?
Because you're my hontoed.
Yeah, what is my honto?
My honto is translated as to have sex or perform idolatry.
Wait a minute.
I thought you said that was what porno is.
Yes.
Yes.
You mean they have two verbs that we have to describe by a whole set of words that
mean something about sex and mystery, something about sex and the practice of religion.
Yes.
And we identify them the same way.
And you know that's bad.
You know that's bad.
It means our people cannot express what they were expressing.
Let's go see how these texts are explicitly Greek.
Okay.
And what did you do?
You got the blood all over your hands, right?
You got the blood.
Why do they have the hand?
Why do they have the blood in their hands?
What are they doing with the substance there?
You even entered into a union of the things of the mind, the intention, the passion.
You entered into a union of that.
And what happened when you did that?
Back to the text.
What happened when you did that?
Yeah.
You what?
The agagon.
You led your children through the impuron.
Bring up the next.
Through the impuron.
Look at it.
Take a look at it.
Oh, I love it.
Getting scorched.
Did you ever get scorched?
Did you get the mortality burnt off you?
Did you get scorched?
You see, this is not fairy tale BS.
This is not mothers bringing their children to be killed.
This is mothers participating in a ritual that derives itself from the midwives.
This is a process of bringing your baby to a place where it can survive.
And what are you doing when you're amplifying this child?
You're introducing this child to the invisible, to the invisible.
Oh, my God.
And if you don't do this to your child, don't expect anything immortal.
You mean that chemical has that much power?
You mean that group of drugs has that much power?
You can take a child and you can develop.
Think about that for a minute, people.
They took their children, their newborn children, and they developed them with drugs.
Sometimes it killed them.
But you know, sometimes the oracles died too.
Yeah.
Yeah, sometimes the oracles died too.
Let's see somebody taking this stuff.
Let's see what happens to them.
But before we do, one more dirty passage from the Bible.
Let's go to it.
I just want to read you this.
Look, you people will recognize this right away, but I want you to know it's the Septuagint, right?
Yeah, who are you, my beloved?
My beauty?
You're a garden that is secluded.
You, my sister, are a nymph.
You are a garden that is secluded, shut off.
Your spring has been sealed in the shoots of your paradise, those growths of your paradise, right?
Those are the pomegranates.
Oh, goodness.
And those are the cuproy and those are the nardon.
Wait a minute.
We're getting into drugs and, yeah, nard, right?
And what else would the nard, the crocus, right?
And the calamus.
Wait a minute.
We're back to the calamus.
Calamus and kinamomon.
Calamus and cinnamon.
Wait a minute.
This is the same group of drugs that was mentioned before in the temple that everybody and their brother now thinks is cannabis.
I would love for it to be so.
Unfortunately, it's not the case.
And here is proof that it's not the case.
These are aromatics, people.
This is what you smell coming from her.
This is the garden that has the wind blown upon it, right?
My garden.
What is that?
Okay, let's go back to the, what is my fruit?
What is my fruit?
Let's read more of that passage.
Yeah, here we go.
Here we go.
And what happens?
You're a fountain.
You're a fountain.
Yeah, a garden fountain.
You're a frear.
You're a well.
You know, a frear is a man-made well.
Something you made.
It's not a natural deposit, right?
You're a well of the water of life flowing out of Lebanon.
Oh, isn't that a nice way?
And what does he say in verse 16?
Blow.
Blow, Boreus.
Wait a minute.
Look at line 16.
There is a Greek God in line 16.
Jehovah just acknowledged, because this is the sacred word of truth.
Jehovah just acknowledged that Boreus and his brother notice are actual gods.
You just gave them place, right?
Of course they are, because they were at the time.
What does the lover ask?
What does the lover ask?
Let's go back.
Blow.
Blow, Boreus.
Blow, notice.
Blow upon my capon.
Wait.
Blow upon you.
What?
Go back to the capon.
Go back to the capon.
Yeah, right there.
Go ahead.
Yeah.
What is the capon?
Well, let's see.
It's a garden.
It's an orchard.
Or plantation.
I see you.
A garden or a plantation.
Look at it.
What is that number three?
Robin numeral number three.
What does that say?
Pudinda muliebria.
Oh, I see.
A garden.
A garden is the vagina.
Is the labia.
Is the pudinda.
The external genitalia.
Right?
This is the paradise.
And what is asked is that those winds would blow upon paradise.
So that paradise would produce that odor, that fragrance of life, that power, that power
of Aphrodite.
That is the power of the mystery.
For those of you who claim to follow a mystery, that is the power of Aphrodite.
That is the power of Aphrodite.
That is the power of Aphrodite.
That is the power of Aphrodite.
That is the mystery.
For those of you who claim to follow a mystery.
And I know you watch evangelicals.
I know you do.
I'll speak to the Catholics too.
To those of you who claim inheritance of a mystery, you have no idea.
You have no idea what the source and power of your mystery truly are.
Fantastic.
Let's go.
Let's go to the next text.
This is wonderful.
I just wanted you to see, because I know some of you are, some of you are not going to,
you're going to, you want to see the abortion, right?
You know, I brought you an abortion passage.
I just want you to look at the top two words that we've got.
Imbru ul kai, kia, excuse me, kai imbru otto miai on the, on the cutting out of the embryo
and on the hooking out.
One of these, these are both ways to remove, go ahead and take it down.
These are both ways to perform abortions.
This is not the type of abortion that we are performing in Ritu in antiquity.
This is the type of abortion that we are performing at the request of women who need this surgery.
And they would use embryotomes.
What's an embryotome?
It's an instrument for cutting out of fetus.
We don't have to worry about that.
We don't have to worry about that on the cult side because our abortions on the cult side,
they're at an early stage of development.
Yeah.
And it's, they're chemical abortions.
The chemicals do for us what the instruments do for the midwives and doctors, right?
The chemicals do that for us.
And we're consuming that anyway.
So thank, yeah, interesting.
Let's go to the next one.
Next one.
I just want to give you a glimpse of that abortion, abortion.
Yeah, fantastic.
So here's a text.
I'm going to flash it up here and then I want you to take it down.
It'll be our final text for tonight.
I want you to see that the title there is Perry Toxicoo.
Perry Toxicoo.
Yes.
And what is that?
Go ahead and take it down.
This is on the drug called toxicon.
This is from a Byzantine physician, which I know none of you have ever read.
I'm talking to the so-called scholars now.
Devil hates you, by the way.
Yeah, he told me this is your punishment.
I was like, are you sure this is the punishment of the scholars?
He's like, dude, it's my prison.
All right.
Who do you think he hates most?
He hates the purveyors.
He hates the sellers most.
Fantastic.
Devil has such high ethical standards.
It's amazing.
Amazing.
Anyway, this is from a Byzantine physician.
You're not going to see him repeated elsewhere.
And I don't believe that there is a translation into English of Paul of vagina.
I may be wrong.
I may be wrong.
I haven't seen one in years.
So I'm going to have to bring this to you from the native Greek.
Don't, don't be worried.
It's pretty straight up sixth century Greek.
It's not, you know, difficulty wise, it's not too bad.
And because it has a lot of medical lingo in it, I've been exposed to that stuff.
So after a while, you kind of learn how to talk the talk.
So go ahead and pull that up.
And I'm, I can't tell you how fortunate I am that I'm able to have access to these things.
Blow that up.
I'm able to have access to these texts.
We should all be thankful for this.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So it seems that the toxicon, and remember the toxicon is a drug that's described by
Scrobonius Largus as being so bad, being so bad that the people who get it speak in tongues.
Yeah.
They babble.
They babble.
These people speak in tongues.
And for some reason their tongues are on fire.
Tongues of fire.
They say the lips too.
This doctor says the lips too.
Okay.
Let me translate this thing to you.
So it seems, blow it up please.
It seems that the toxicon is named from the act of Christing the arrows performed by the
Batabaron, right?
Performed by the non-Greek speakers.
They're talking about these people up around the Black Sea is what they're talking about.
Right?
So, but notice on that second line.
Wait a minute.
This isn't the word for anointing in Messiah.
No, it's not.
It's the word for Christing something.
Why?
Because when you're using a drug, as we already saw in Euripides, you're Christing.
When you're sitting in a gymnasium, you're getting anointed.
The Christing has to be there in the case of the application of mind-altering drugs.
It is the drug that brings you the fury.
The fury.
You look it up.
That's all it will say announced.
The fury.
Yeah.
Love it.
Love it.
Okay.
Bring us up that passage again.
Let's keep reading what this doc says.
So, yeah, what is this thing?
Well, he says, it's very bad when people drink it and it causes their lips and their tongue
to be inflamed.
It says that they get a form of mania, a form of mania, and it causes them to see many varied
types of vision.
Yeah, it causes them to see, and they're tough to treat.
Most of these people don't make it, but when they do, right, it's, he says, first of all,
it's necessary as they're coming through it.
And then he reads off this giant.
Look, this is, okay, I got to read this.
It's necessary to treat these people by binding them in chains and compelling them to drink
sweet wine with rose oil in order to throw up or vomit, right?
So, she's trying to get them to vomit the stuff that they've eaten.
Then he says, then you take the seeds of this plant along with some wine and you drink it,
and then you do this every day.
You're applying the roots of so-and-so, the blood of so-and-so, and by the way, the blood
of so-and-so, there's specific types of ingredients, right?
The semen of Helios is an ingredient, right?
The sun semen, right?
They're not talking about actual the sun and actual semen, right?
So, okay, it's cult speak.
What else are you going to be using?
You're going to be using these substances, including the Sidonian apple, and when you're
going to be administering this stuff, right?
With all of these wonderful plants, you're going to be doing it in the wine.
And after much time, if the person manages to come through the danger, I'm translating,
if the person manages to come through the danger, they're going to be bedridden for a while.
And then when they try to get up and move around and assume a normal life, what's going
to happen to them?
They're going to be constantly frightened, constantly, take it down, under stress, right?
Constantly frightened.
It has such a profound mental effect on you.
This arrow poison has such a profound effect on you that it changes the way you react to
people around you after you've been born again.
Have you seen what's there?
I'm going to give the call, right?
Did you know what I want preachers to write in?
I want these blood suckers.
I want them.
I can give the call.
The word of the devil now.
Do you hear it?
Do you hear that call?
You want to see the unseen.
There is a world around you.
There is a world around you functioning alongside and contrary to your own dimension.
There is another dimension that exists, and that dimension impresses itself upon yours.
As the guys at MIT are now fond of saying, you are the reflection through that event horizon
of the actuality that is on the other side.
You are the reflection of the actuality through the event horizon.
All the space around you is filled with that world.
You interact with it every day.
You smell it.
You taste it.
You live it.
You're experiencing it.
Those acts of passion.
Those acts of passion are because of those interactions between the seen and the unseen.
Those of you who have eyes to see, like the dragon.
The dragon, it's from the Greek word for seeing.
But we know the dragon is blind.
So why did they name the seer as the blind one?
It's because that invisible dimension around you cannot be perceived except by entering into blindness.
You have to become like children.
You have to be able to come from a state of being unaware to a state of awareness.
Yes.
Interesting.
That's quite a cult thing you've got going.
Well, it's Bronze Age.
Right?
Old stuff.
Health.
Health and drugs.
Yes.
And now intercourse.
And how do we keep our oracles from becoming pregnant?
We give them the burning purple.
It is that burning purple that Mary herself had access to that she had in her culprits.
Right?
It's that burning purple that the midwife said, whoa, burn in my hand.
Right?
Something's wrong.
Yes.
It's that cult power that allows the virgin to bring into the world the Son of God.
And all of a sudden, you know, we're right back at home.
We're right back at home with the giants.
We're right in that culture of drugs.
None of this is available to you through the modern fairy tale of Christianity, church history.
It's not there.
You're not going to find it.
I'm going to bring that to you and you can find that stuff yourself with the text because this is the age of you got no excuse.
I used to have to go to library.
Right?
Nobody does that anymore.
It's all going to be online now.
Fantastic.
Fantastic.
This is a huge universe.
Okay.
We've got Gnostic Informant who's going to come and he's going to, he's going to say some strange things and I'm going to shut up for a minute and just let him hit at it.
How are you doing Gnostic Informant?
I'm doing all right.
I have some little allergy bothering me.
My eyes look a little red itchy, but it's okay.
I'm all good.
So I, that was fascinating, by the way, and I was like, I always do when I come on here, I listen and then I start thinking of stuff to pull up to bring to the table.
And I'm thinking about the time period in which the Greeks started to move to Magna Graecia, which is it, which we know is Southern Italy.
They called it the Magna, little or greater Greece, right?
Magna Graecia.
And a lot of these Greeks came from what was Asia Minor, modern day Turkey.
And a good book on this that I learned a lot from Peter Kingsley.
He, in the dark places of wisdom, he, he gives you all the sources.
It's really well sourced primary sources showing pictures of like archaeology.
I love it.
I love it.
Well, here's what I want to connect with what you said.
He talks about how like Parminides and Pythagoras, they would come to Italy and they would set up the first thing we do is they would build a temple to the Muses.
And then you, so they built this temple, they built it a certain way, certain dimensions, certain ionic columns, it would be like rectangular, it would be up on a hill.
And you go inside there and you would find on one side of the, whatever, north side, I'll say, there is obviously Apollo, golden Apollo with his lyre.
And this particular Apollo that was worshipped by Parminides was Apollo Ulios, Apollo the healer.
And this place was a multifunctional place where the people would go and they would deliver births there.
It was like a hospital.
There was also a temple.
So you had your, you had your doctors, you had your, your magi, you had your priests, you had all your, you know, your, your, you had your poets, you had your scholars.
This was the place, right?
It was the temple of the Muses.
This is the place where everything's at.
But on the other side of the temple, you're thinking, what is it?
Zeus?
What is it?
Nope.
The most important thing ever is to have a statue of the goddess Themis, the goddess of justice.
I have a screen that I want to share.
Thank you for that.
True is on point, by the way.
Themis is the Titan goddess of divine law and order of traditional rules of conduct who first established by the gods.
Prophetic goddess who presided over the most ancient oracles, including Delphi.
And Themis is referred to divine law.
She is the early bride of Zeus, often represented seated beside his throne, advising him.
She's that wisdom.
You know what I mean?
She, without, without, without, think about this, without justice, what do you have?
People call, people like, I get comments on my channel all the time.
You're a social justice warrior.
Fuck yeah, I am.
Hell yeah.
Thank you for that compliment.
They think they like got me on that one.
That's a, yeah, I am a warrior for Themis.
Of course I'm a warrior for Themis.
Why wouldn't I be?
That's the, that's the divine way.
That's the, you're the one that's off.
You're the one that's on the, on the off course, not me.
So, but I might, but I want to get back to the medical side because that's, that's all cool and important.
Oh, by the way, you're probably wondering if Themis is the earlier wife of Zeus, Hera must be very jealous.
No, Hera actually called her Lady Themis and looked up to her as like a motherly figure.
There was no beef between them.
Weird, right?
Hera is always mad at all Zeus's other girlfriends.
She wasn't mad at Themis.
She loved Themis and called her Lady Themis and respected her.
Anyways, put that aside for now.
I have a, um, so that's not all though because you would go down a pathway because you, you know, the Greeks weren't stupid.
They knew that you couldn't just put all the sick people in one room.
Certain people had to be separated.
They had to be quarantined.
They knew this stuff.
I think the word quarantine is even Greek, not mistaken, but I could be wrong.
It could be Latin or something.
But anyways, um, they would go, they would take them down this path and they would go like, I don't know, half a mile, a mile away and they would bring them down to the shores where there's a cave.
And in these caves, they set up these, well, first of all, they had a grove for Dionysus down there.
They always have the grove for Dionysus outside the temple, not in the temple.
For some reason, Dionysus always was outside the temple.
They have the grotto of, grotto of Dionysus.
You kept going and it's called the plutonium, the caves.
And in these caves, they would take really, really sick people that are about to die or put them on, or if they're on some sort of drug incubated and they put them asleep into a coma.
They would bring them to these caves and then they would, uh, they would come back from these caves and report their dreams.
And oftentimes these dreams were considered to be prophetic and the priests would be waiting.
The priests would be waiting for people to wake up and say, tell me what you saw.
I'm writing it all down right now.
This is serious.
This is the, this is the oracle.
This is the symbol.
You have to buy a lot.
Tell me what you saw.
And they took the shit seriously.
This is no joke.
This is no joke.
Well, anyways, I have a primary source about where these are originated from.
Because by the way, I mentioned these Greeks came from, from the East to Magna Graecia.
This is a, this is a, uh, this is a, a thing that goes back to the times of Medea's kingdom.
Remember talking about the ancient Medea kingdom, the area known as Nisa, you know, in Asia Minor, where Dionysus, the God of Nisa Dionysus means Dionysus.
The God of Nisa is where he's born there.
So I got a source from Strabo.
I'm going to pull this up on my, on my screen right now.
This is the last thing I want to say.
And then I'm done.
This is going to, you're going to love this.
You're going to love this.
So this is from Strabo from geography.
And what you're about to, what you're about to hear right now, I'm going to read it and read this whole thing.
It's real short is the, the, the, the origin of these incubation caves.
They're called plutoniums.
Here we go.
On the road between the Tralions and Nisa is a village of the Nisians, not far from the city, our car, our caraca, where there is a plutonium.
Remember, I mentioned what those are.
Those are these, these are these caves with the costly sacred priest, sacred priest and a shrine of Pluto and Corey.
And also the coronium, a cave that lies above the sacred priest, by nature, wonderful.
For they say that those who are diseased, diseased and give heed to the cures prescribe.
I was just mentioning this.
They're on their drugs.
They go to the caves.
They go to, they go in their incubation.
They go and they go into a coma.
They're, they're prescribed by the gods to resort to their and live in the village near the cave among the experienced priest who on their behalf sleep in the cave and through dreams prescribe the cures.
This is mind blowing.
This is ancient medicine practice, man.
This is amazing.
These are also the men who invoke the healing power of the gods and they often bring the sick into the cave and leave them there to remain in quiet like animals in their lurking holes without food for many days.
And sometimes the sick give heed also to their own dreams.
But they, but still they use those other men as priests to initiate them into the mysteries.
What?
They're getting initiated into the mysteries here too.
And to counsel them to all others, the places forbidden and deadly.
A festival is celebrated every year at Akeraka.
And at that time in particular, those who celebrate the festival can see and hear concerning all these things.
And the festival too about noon.
The boys and young men at the gymnasium, nude and Christ said, I'm using the Greek Christ said with oil.
Take up a bowl with a haste, carry him into the cave.
And when let loose, the bowl goes forward on a short distance falls and breathes out his life.
There you go.
That's, that's the city of Nisa where Dionysus was born.
And that is where these, these pre-socratics came from to Italy to set up these temples of the music.
They did it.
They copied it exactly how they saw it over there.
This is where the source of that from.
Brilliant.
Brilliant.
Nice.
Look at that everybody.
One source there.
Pow.
That is more biblical history and context than you have ever gotten in your entire life from any priest or any preacher anywhere.
Beautiful.
Beautiful.
I love it, Gnostic.
I love it.
Tell me something really quick.
What are you working on?
And what's, what's the latest thing?
I just want, we've got you here and I like your art.
I dig your art, man.
What are you doing?
Tomorrow, the video that you and I were working on together will be finished.
Medea.
Okay.
And what else do you, what's your latest?
I'm just curious.
What's your latest?
Truscans coming next.
Truscans.
Fantastic.
Are you going to tell us?
This is going to be a good one.
Yeah.
Are you going to tell us some crazy stuff?
Medea.
Medea is in the, she's part of the story of ancient Italy.
Yeah.
Can you imagine that?
Medea is in Italy before any, before any of these, you know, Roman senators even thought about.
Like Medea, that's, she's there first.
Yeah.
I, you know, you wonder why Julius Caesar went to the temple of Venus Gnetrix, Venus the
mother, the producer of our people.
And he hangs up a portrait of Medea by some famous Greek guy.
I don't remember who it was, but yeah, famous portrait of Medea.
Love it.
They've got her name is, and people don't realize, Neil, think about this.
Um, you and I have talked about this, but she is famous all the way from Babylon to Northern
Italy, how in the late Bronze Age, with their technology, with their technology, how is this
technology?
How is it that one person can have such a broad power base and they end up in Athens and they
end up in the kingdom of Corinth?
Yeah.
Oh my God.
The entire, entire peoples will give you an example.
The Arians, they were called the Arians.
They changed their name to the Medes to be named after her.
So when I think of this, when you think of like, worldly famous people, you know, Alexander
the Great, Julius Caesar, uh, Genghis Khan, you know, whatever, there's a lot of them.
She was the first.
She was the first world famous queen before any, but before Caesar, before Alexander the
Great was Medea.
Everyone knew, whether from coast to coast, everyone knew who Medea was.
Yeah.
She's the, exactly.
She is the inspiration for the earliest Greek literature.
We know our sources tell us before the Homeric epics, there were epics about Medea.
It's amazing, but people think the most powerful human ever is a man.
They're going to pick some dictator from the 20th century or something.
No, no, no.
Medea created an empire of the mind that guided all of history.
That's, you realize it's her mystery.
You Christians who are, who are, who are celebrating a mystery, it's hers originally.
Yeah.
Oh God, I love it.
And last thing I was going to say, just to highlight how, how famous she was in Athens
in the fourth century, fifth century BCE, there's people writing plays about her still
600 years later.
And this is geographic wise.
This is a whole, this is a three seas away, the Mediterranean, the black sea.
This is two, three seas away.
So why are people all the way on this side of the, of the, in this, in this area, writing
plays about a queen who lived all the way over here 600 years ago.
That tells you something that's never been done anywhere else.
You can't, you can't, you can't like match that up with another example of someone else.
You can't.
I love it.
I love it, Neil.
I love it.
This is so, for those of you who want to buy this, you can't.
But this is in the sources and as you can see what we have just done is just straight
from the sources.
We got no arguments.
We got no scholars here going, Oh, I've got to keep my reputation.
Right.
You, those people can, as my good friend Cyrus said, you can sit and spin.
You know what I mean?
Neil, thanks for coming tonight.
I'll give you the last comment.
The sources, like you said, you can, we live in a time right now where you don't have to
get on a voyage and do a boat that you might sink in and just try to travel to Alexandria
and then maybe if you can read that you'll be able to like try to read some different
language.
No, we live in a time now where almost everything's translated and it's all on the internet.
You can go, you can look it up.
Get the knowledge.
There's no, like, you don't, you don't, there's no, you don't have to go to college.
I mean, you could.
Great.
I'm not saying if I'm wrong with that, but like you can, this stuff is like right at
your fingertips and it's beautiful.
It's a beautiful ancient world.
I love it.
Beautifully stated and with that we'll end.
We'll see you guys on Friday.
Hail Satan.
Hail Satan.
