I let that liquor drown my days Now I'm taking my last ride
I paid the highest price you can pay And I'm on my way to Potter's Field
The Palmer's Grave is where I'll be To rest until the end of time
For all eternity
The Lady Babylon Satanic Initiation
This is going to be a great time
Because today I can promise you one thing
Today I can promise you are kicking down that door
We're going to take that guard down
And then we're going to castrate Jehovah
That's what we're going to do
We're going for the big guy tonight on Satanic Initiation
Satanic Initiation
Hail Satan, good to see everyone
Tonight we're going in and we're reclaiming
According to our mandate
According to our mandate
For the fifth season we are to take back
These blessed books that have been maligned
For so long through time by mortals
Tonight we're taking it back
And I'm going to take you to the giants
Now this is going to be special
Because I'm not taking you to any fairy book giants
I'm not doing it
I'm not taking you in to see some kind of Grim Brothers
Awful transmogrification of the real pre-socratic wisdom
I'm not doing that
I'm taking you back
We're getting in that ship and we're going back
And we're going to shake the hands of a couple of giants
I got two giants for you tonight
I got two giants
We're going to shake their hands to find out who they are
We will start out with a little bit of propaganda
These
I want you to watch two
I want you to watch two Orphic hymns
Orphic hymns, remember the images
These things should have a warning with them
Because the images are those which are putting you into the state of initiation
Remember that
The song is everything
Chewie, take us to...
It was a golden age
But we're here for the testicles of God himself
What we need to do
Is we need to get by Michael at the door
We need to approach the throne
We need to take it out
We need to cut off those testicles
Who is in it with me tonight
To take the testicles right off
We're going to establish a new reign
And we're going to do it
We're going to do it through this power of ion
Love it
Now, what do we need though?
We need one more thing
Before we go
The ship's still running, right?
But we need one more thing before we go
We need her
Everybody knows we need her
Who? You say who?
We need her
We need her to chart the course
We need her to guide the way
We need her
Chewie, hit the hyperdrive
Let's go right to Rea
Rea
Rea
Rea
Rea
Rea
Rea
Rea
Rea
Rea
Rea
Rea
Rea
Rea
Rea
Rea
Rea
Rea
Rea
Rea
Rea
Rea
Rea
Rea
Rea
Rea
Rea
Rea
Rea
Rea
Rea
Rea
Rea
Rea
Rea
Rea
Rea
Rea
Rea
Rea
Rea
Rea
Rea
Rea
Rea
Rea
Rea
Rea
Rea
Rea
Rea
Rea
Rea
Rea
Rea
Rea
Rea
Rea
Rea
Rea
Rea
Rea
Rea
Rea
Rea
Rea
Rea
Rea
I want to introduce to you the giants who are these people. There were giants on
the earth in those days and after that as the sons of God went into the daughters
of men they produced children and these children were giants from Ion. Men who
were famous illustrious renown. Go ahead and take it down. That expression there
op Ion is strange and right away I just want you to keep in the back of your
head. Op Ion. What is Ion? Not a what but a who. Ion is who. Yeah. Yeah. Who are
these giants? Who are these giants? Now get ready. Here's the interference. Can you
feel it in the atmosphere? Here comes a little bit of electricity.
It's the Nephilim. No. This is a Greek text we're reading. Throw us up to one of
these what are these so-called scholars done to us? The Nephilim giants. Look at
the definition. Giants. Let me remind the audience. Take it down. Let me remind the
audience we are reading the Greek text of the Septuagint. You have been told
that it's a translation of a Hebrew text from earlier but that Hebrew text
doesn't exist. It is not from Hebrew and I am not the first to come up with this.
They did so in antiquity the grammarians that studied it said this thing is not a
translation brah. Wow. So what we're looking at is a Greek. I'm showing you the
giants like nobody else can. I'm showing you the giants so you I'm so excited for
you to meet these giants. Oh my goodness. The sons of God. The sons of God. Who are
these sons of God? And where can I sign up? Where can I sign up? This is fantastic.
Who are these people? You will watch on the on YouTube or any other place that
you can go and you can pay for this and that and by the way some people raised
the issue we are not monetized. I cannot make money off of this. It's a deal
that I made with the devil. Fantastic. Let's go back to the sources. This is so
amazing. So here we are with the giants and the sons of God are walking around
doing some strange things. We're all afraid of them. What do we call them? We
call them giants. Gigas. It's a it's a Greek word. As old as the hills. What is a
giant? A giant is the offspring of a Titan. Oh my God. Oh my God. They come from
Titan blood. These earth-born monsters come from Titan blood. Well I'm getting
closer. I want to date one. Can I go out with it with one of these giants? Can we
just can we just go pray pull us the next text coming up here. Yeah look at
this. This is a this is an Ezekiel. I pulled this one from Ezekiel because
he mentions the giants again. Here they are. Metatonguigantan. See that? He laid
down with the giants and that sleep death peptokoton up Ionos. Wait a minute.
Here's Ion again. What's the relation with Ion? What's the relation? He's that
one who is from? Yeah. From Ion. From Ion. Okay. Who's this Ion character? I'm
getting like this. If you walk into Israel, I'm gonna confuse you now. I'm gonna
confuse you. Are you ready? Hold on. If you walk into a synagogue in Israel, just a
little bit north of Jezreel Valley, you'll find a synagogue and in that
synagogue, what is there? Ion is there. Right? Start looking for it. Right?
Fantastic. Why is Ion in the middle of our deal here? What is this Ion? Wait, I
hear her coming. Come on. Come in, Nellie. I believe the Ion is the eternal. Okay.
Shut up, Nellie. You have no idea what you're talking about. But I have had some
no testament Greek. You don't know what you're talking about, Nellie? Yeah.
I Dios is eternal. That's the words you want. I Dios. It's got I on the front of
that from my Greek students. Always. Yes, that's not Ion. They are not coming from
the Ion. Yes. Who are these giants? Let's see them. I can start to smell them.
There's a reason that people were afraid. Next one, please, Chewie. There's a reason.
Good. The people were afraid. Look what happened. What do we know about these
giants? These are the people I'm describing to you now. Are you ready?
They, Hote Exif, Fallbesant, they were all afraid. They all feared the Gigantas. The
people around are afraid of them. All the tribes and the territory around these
dudes, they're afraid for how long? Look, Greek guys, it's a genitive duration of
time. Yeah. Time within which. What is that? It's the whole life. Zoes. It's that whole life.
They're always afraid. These guys have a reputation. These giants. They were, okay,
I still want to date one. Let's see. Come on. Come over. Giants have a seat. Next slide,
please. Yes, I call them slides, annoyingly, because they're not. Yeah. These giants are,
are you ready for this? Are you ready for this? They are the offspring of Gaia and Uranos through
the Titans. Are we all children of Earth and Sky? That's the question. Children of Earth and Sky.
In the beginning, Hoteos, God created that Earth and Sky. He was the Protagonid. Oh my goodness.
Do you hear the, do you hear the, the strains of Old Testament just coming apart? We're taking
these back, man. These texts are good peg and text, man. Moses is waving around a snake for a
good reason. And for those of you who can't embrace the richness of your own heritage,
I don't care. I can embrace it all. Moses was a drug use in Magus. Drug use in Magus. Just wait
until we profile Moses, because he's on the witness list for the trial of Jesus on charges
of transdimensional child trafficking when he was arrested in a public park with a naked boy
at 4 a.m. and I was 15 minutes. Fantastic. Let's keep going with the, keep going, keep going.
You can't get this stuff anywhere else, people. You can't get this stuff anywhere else. It's
not going to come, right? I'm going to pull up because people talk. I was going to say,
I was going to rant there for a minute and I really need to for just a second because you're
going to be watching. Oh, God. You're going to be watching on YouTube and you're going to be watching
shows on, and you're going to see dudes with this. Don't think about it, right? We're going on a date.
I've invited them to come on. Let's see who they are. Everybody's scared of them. Everybody's scared.
Don't be a human, right? Come on. They're going to teach us some good stuff. We'll know them by what
they, what they exude, what they give us. That's how we'll know them. Oh, take me to it. Take me
to that next source, please. Loved it. Oh, God. Okay. I'm going to take my copy here, which is
for some reason on the page previous. Give me just a second. Sorry, that's poor
preparation. My book fell apart though, so I have the page. I'll just look at it here.
Yeah, Cronus. I just want to read you something about Cronus. What is he? I thought I remember,
these are hymns, and the reason it's so important for you to watch that video is the same reason
when you walk into your church, you understand? And it says, before I have my long, boring speech,
you guys go ahead and listen to some music and get energized, right? It's those images in the hymn
that we're transferring. Now, those people are not under the influence of strong drugs,
and they're not in the sex orgy. So the experience is going to be a little bit muted. But let's read
to him so you can see it. Cronus, what is he? I thought he's that always fresh, you know,
vigorous chude. He's that father of the great gods and men. He's that one who has such crafty advice,
so intelligent. He's that strong one. He's that great Titan. Titan. What are the Titans? The Titans
are what was before, took over. The Titans are what was before. Everything that's ruling now is.
Yes, very confusing. It's the older generation. And I'm trying to be extremely specific with
Titans because you'll have people BS you talking about Nephilim and BS you about what these things
are. These are Titans produced, these giants. And what are Titans? Rhea and Cronus are Titans.
Rhea and Cronus are Titans. What is the, this is the last one, too. I put this up on the,
my very last interview today. Yep, go ahead. That's, yeah, here is your verb, right? I'm,
I told my Greek students, everybody, don't forget, all of Greek turns around, it's verb.
The verbs are the engines that drive the language. Excellent. So what I want you to do is what,
what is the Titan verb? It's titino. What you can see is epic, reduplicated for tano and
adectano will do, right? But look what this means to stretch. Wait a minute. Read that Greek
following stretch, toxa, titino, stretching that toxa. Wait a minute. Do I, do I have a bow?
I do have a bow. This word's associated with bowing. Yes, it is. Look at, look at the next line.
There's another bow reference on the line after that. Another bow reference. My goodness. What
other kind of references do we get? We get the harp. We get the harp. Okay, stop. Pull it down,
Chewie, because you got to see the reality here. It's that stretching action. It's that thing that
brings that bowman and that musician into the same realm. It's the tension. It's the tension
of the cosmos. Those Presocratics are sitting around talking about tension. Nobody understands
what that means, right? It's the attunement. Do you hear the attunement? Those of you who, who fancy
the magic arts, particularly classical, the real stuff. You guys, you guys know what that means,
what that tension is. It's the power that drives everything. Why are we talking like this, Mr.
Guy, Mr. Titan, giant guy sitting next to me, talking to me. Tell me, Mr. Titan, your children
that are giants, what do they do? They make lightning. They make light, they make what?
They make lightning. Okay, now I'm in. Okay, these people are cool. No wonder,
people are afraid. Could you tell me a little bit more about the lightning here? Give me the next.
Boom. Let's just take the root. Let's just take the root of the oistress. What is the
oistress? That is that sting. That is that sting. It's also poison. It's also the power
to put you into an oracular place. And if you know Moses, he likes his oracles, right? He's
out in the desert, make him tense. Yeah, hearing the voice of God, bringing the voice of God,
right? Bringing the voice of God. And here we are to clip him. Are you ready? Here we're going to
get our chance to clip him. Look at these. Oistrate to Ekmine. This is Hesechius people.
He's a Greek who's writing about the Greek language. Forget about modern scholars. Are you idiots?
Are you idiots at Harvard, Yale, Stanford? All of the schools everywhere. Guess what? It turns
out the best definitions are from the Greeks themselves. Yeah, that's what we have to do.
Any good classist knows that, right? It's too bad. This generation following mine. I don't know
what happened to it. Broke down. Got soft, weak, not enough drilling. Need more drilling. People
like to be drilled. Drilling is good for you. It's good for the driller. It's good for the drilly.
What is the next one? Oistrate. To enter into that, you've heard the word idolatry,
the performance of those rites. That lat root is that. So it's the oyster with that regulating
lat root. And how does he define it here? I need to bring that up again, sorry.
Minotai. To be maniac. To be crazy. To be running around, pointing at ghosts that nobody else sees.
Yeah, we're talking about the mantic rites. You know what Heracles was? He was a mantic.
He was a mantic. Love it. Let's go back. Let's go back. Oh, there he is. That's nice. Who's that?
I don't know. He's got a nice hat. Go to the next. We've got to get these quick or else we're
going to lose them. Are you ready? Oystraplegos. That just means to be struck by the oysters,
right? To be in mania. It says in mania. Go up one. And I just want to grab those two bottom ones.
Look at this. Yeah, look at this. Prumanoi. Oh, wait a minute. We've got people who are doing
the oyster mania, who are entering into that state. And if you weren't invited to the right party,
you're not going to get there. This is a chemical process. The oysters is that madness
that is induced by the poison. Fantastic. They've got too much scopolamine and atropine
and high osciamine going on. These people are flooding themselves, right? They're inducing,
intentionally inducing mania. Now you understand why everybody's so afraid of them. Yeah,
they can hit you with an arrow. Next thing you know, you do a Mitch McConnell.
Is it too early? It's too early. It's too early. I listened to that man lie out of his lying tongue
for so many years. It felt good to see the fury stop him, cut him short. It felt good. And I'm not
afraid of them. I'm not afraid to say that. Everybody faces Moira. Everybody faces your
equalizing destiny. Yeah, yeah, we all think we're getting away. But we aren't fantastic. Welcome to
prison. That's the Caldean thing, right? It's punishment for all of us. Fantastic. Unless you
work for the place, in which case, it's fun. Fantastic. Let's go. Yeah, go ahead and go down one.
Yeah, let's just see that oysters. Let's get Hasikius to tell us what oysters is, shall we?
Okay, are you ready? I know some of you have seen the oysters before, but look, here's a Greek
defining it. This is not me. This is a Greek. And just like yesterday, we're not going to insert
words into our Greek texts that aren't there like cannabis. We are also not going to provide our own
definition of things. We're going to use him. We're going to use him. Look at this. Look at this.
Edithismos. What is Edithismos? Oh, this word makes me so excited. This is the dirty part.
For those of you who, you know, who, whatever, everybody should see this. Go, bring it down
to the next one. What is that Edithismos? That's an irritation. Have you ever had that irritation?
I've got that irritation, that itch. I've got the itch running me. And sometimes I've got to have
this Edithismos. I've got to have this itch, this irritation that leads me to Aphrodisia.
I want to go to Aphrodisia. I want some provocation and some rebelliousness. Oh,
don't you love that? It's a perverse rebelliousness. Don't you love that?
You may be able to bring more medicine to more people through the temples of Aphrodite.
Bacchus, the cult always leads to Aphrodite for a healing reason. The oracle is a healing oracle.
You need that. You might not go in, as one of the watchers was telling me the other day,
you might not go into your school or your workplace and shoot up people and then
write manifestos about how you hate women because they all rejected you. You might,
if you had been put through a society that recognized the value of sexual initiation,
you wouldn't have never have gotten to that place because you would be mentally healthy.
The priestesses in the temple, they'll help you. They will help you. Are you depressed?
Are you depressed? Do you not feel well? Does your body out in an imbalance? Come, come.
We will help. We will help. Yes, this is mental health people. Mental, straight up mental health.
Yes, designed by women. It's gorgeous. The history here is fantastic. Let's go to the next.
Yep, go ahead. Yeah, and what is that Aphrodisias, right? This is what the
Oystrus does for us. Are you ready? Takes us to Aphrodisias or Aphrodisia in the plural, right?
And what are those things? They're the things that belong to the goddess, the things that belong
to Aphrodite. And pray tell, Mr. Titan, who's going to introduce your giant children to me, pray
tell. What, what, what are these Aphrodisiacs do? What are these things that belong to Aphrodite?
Back to the definition, please. Yep. What are they? Sexual pleasures. Ow, sexual pleasures.
I see. Does everybody see that? Look at number three. Pudinda. Pudinda. What's it? Can somebody
look that up? I don't know what that is. I know there's a Latin word, pudor, that means shame.
Shame. These are your shamed bits. Yes, they are. That's what the Oystromania leads me to.
When I'm taking the Oystrus, when I'm getting that sting, boom. Yes, it leads me to
Aphrodite. Look at number three. Temple of Aphrodite, right? They got places for this.
I need to go. I need to, that's where you're going to find the drugs. That's where you're
going to be healed. You get up off your backside and go down to the temple and spend the weekend
there and come back and you're going to be refreshed. You're going to be refreshed. You might learn
something. You might walk away with a little more respect, a little more respect for those
priestesses. You may. What a perfect, perfect solution to your problem. Gorgeous. I love it.
It's brilliant. No, I need that one more. There was one more thing on the Aphroditeus.
Yeah, I just want you to take that down. I just want you to look at the bottom.
Yeah, we're in Cyprus. It's the name of a month. January, February, March,
sex. May, June, did you hear me? January, February, March, sex. May, June, July.
Do you like that? January, February, March, pudenda. It's pudendal season. Let's celebrate.
We're celebrating the female genitalia. If you're celebrating the female genitalia,
because it's female genitalia month, your society might be a little bit less
misogynistic, you think? Maybe a little bit less. You can get to that level of understanding
and comfort that you have a national vagina month. This is national sex and vagina month.
Women's health, 101. Think of that. How wonderful that is. You don't get there. And I can hear you,
evangelicals, though. I heard you through the screen. I heard one of you say something about
demons and drugs. Yes, that's where we're going. We're going to drink and we're going to drink
and abort affections out of aborted fetus drizzling out of the priestess. Yeah, sometimes it's just
the fusal stage, right? So it's just like punch. Do you see why are they fearing these titans?
They are bringing this technology. They are bringing it to the people. They are bringing
it specifically to the women and the women are taking it over. Who are these Nephilim? You thought
they were, oh, I'm a big giant angel, dude. I'm going to go have sex with some women.
That's what you thought it was. And Jehovah steps up. That's right, Jehovah. That's one for you.
One big one right on the place that it's going to hurt most. What does Cronus do the titan?
Cuts off those testicles. Cuts off those testicles. Fantastic. Love it. Let's keep going.
More text, right? People say, you need the text. You need the proof. This is all this is. Text.
We're drowning in the text. I want to take you to Enoch. I want to take you to Enoch.
And by the way, I've got a show coming up where I'm taking on. I'm going to look at one history
channel, history channel documentary. Having said before I say this, let me tell you,
history channel approached me and through a production team and said, we want to do
documentary based on your book, Chemical Muse. Fantastic job was done because I advised them
to get profs who had access to these texts, particularly the medical stuff, who know the
drug texts. I told them, you've got to get this hardcore stuff. You've got to get. And so it was
a great documentary. Yeah, history channel. Wonderful. But this video, this recent documentary
came out a couple of months ago has every has every player lined up, giving you the line of
squat that's going to stain your lips with poop that comes out of Michael's rear. That's what
it's going to do. You say Michael doesn't have a rear. He's a he's an angel. He doesn't have any
parts either. He doesn't have any parts. Yeah, well, you don't know about what it smells like
to be around the devil. Yeah, and it smells like that. Right. This is cult we're talking about
people. This is real stuff. This is not a joke. This is not a prank. This is real textual work.
We've got to see what's going on. These are sexual cults. And I'm going to bring you now through
Enoch. I just want to read you a little bit. I know I've mentioned Enoch before. And all I'm going to
do is yeah, all I'm going to do is translate here. I've got these are from the geese. This is from
the geese of fragments, right? And so this is a copy of the text. And what I'm going to do is
there are two registers. I'm going to use them both because I'm going to go from both translations
just to get as well around that it hit on as I can. But our first comes. I'm just going to read it
to you. And yeah, they took to themselves women. Each man, right, got his own female and entered
into this way of living and that included staining, staining himself, staining himself. Huh. That's
kind of odd. Well, let's just, okay, let's keep reading. Let's keep reading. How else are we going
to defile ourselves? Yeah. And they taught each other the use of drugs. That's what it says.
They taught each other epodes. You remember that sexual singing meant to excite that I told you
about? Guess what's there? They're teaching this with the drugs. With the drugs, these are the giants
that are produced from this generation. These are the giants. Fantastic. You mean they're not,
they're not Anguloid? Actually, they are Anguloid, but they're human Anguloid, human messengers.
Yes, human messengers. That word Anguloid, the dude with the wings and the flappy flap flap,
okay, within the symbols. That is only there to convey the progression of the language. They're
always about the language. Remember Hermes? He's the chief. Your messenger has to be the one
who can do the hermeneutics, the hermeneutics. Do you hear Hermes in it? The translation. Isn't
that nice? The meth hermeneutics, the translation. That's, that's incredible. I love this stuff.
Okay, one more text from Enoch and I want to tell you what else are they teaching them? He says
they're teaching them about the plants. They're teaching them about the plants and they're teaching
them about the drugs. And he says here that, look, one of them, here, one of these guys teaches the
other ones about the craft. And what is he teaching? Please, I'm just going to run through the list.
I'm just going to run through the list. They teach him how to make weapons, weapons, and shields,
and how to make war, how to press on a war. They teach him how to mine and how to work metal.
Oh, okay. So these guys are at a time when they're working that bronze. There, those bronze were,
okay, cool. I got it. I can see how that'd be intimidating if your neighbor can show up in
bronze armor. What? That could be scary, I suppose. You know what I mean? They show them how to work
that metal and they show them how to make those drugs that are used in things like the cosmetics.
Yeah. And wait, what else do they do? They teach them Bafika. Bafika. I've got this one. What is,
what is Bafika? I think that one's up there, isn't it? Yeah, Bafikos. Look, this is dying.
People, we have walked in to those dyes yet again. Okay. Fantastic. We've walked right into the
dyers. That, of course, that art is, of course, associated in antiquities, antiquity,
with a technology that was allied with drugs, drugs, right, that oysters. The Eos is called the
violet or the purple. Why is it called the violet of the purple? Because when Io, when Io, right,
what started the war between the Titans and the Olympians anyway? What started all of this?
The Io started all of this. That was the one issue was the Io. Oh my God, you mean it's all
about this oyster? It's all about that draw, that itch, that drive. Yeah, it is. Look at what
they're doing. And Paul the Apostle spank his holy bottom. Paul the Apostle would tell you,
look what they've done. They put the nature into the divinity. They worship the nature and the
Greeks and Romans would say, of course, why wouldn't you? Why wouldn't you? Yes. Well,
right? Do you see what happens when you worship the nature? You castrate Jehovah.
You castrate Jehovah. If you want to have young girls who cannot be educated, you have to have
Jehovah intact. If you want to follow that mother, that great mother, you have to castrate Jehovah.
It's why, it's why she came to Cronus. She was like, look, Cronus, nobody else castrate him.
And he was like, yeah, way, man, yeah, way, man, I'm there. And what happened when Cronus castrated
him? Boom, the foam born came through Aphrodite. Do you see how she is that perfect Aphrodite is
in their mind? That perfect manifestation of nature. Urania, they call her, the Iranian one.
She comes from Uranos, that foam from the water. Yes. Gorgeous. Oh, I love it so much. I just want
to put on, I just want to play the rea for you. I seem to have dropped my notes, my tags. There it is.
Let me just read you a couple of things about rea. And while Chewie regaled him a little bit
with rea, they don't watch the Greek the whole time. Yes. I'm going to read the second half because
it's in Greek. Yes. So yeah, she's that beautiful form, right? She is that incredible mate of Cronus
who rejoices in what? She rejoices in the screams, the hallelujahs, the hallelujahs of mortals
in the mountains. She rejoices in that. And there is both dark and light in that,
because that ololudo can be a shot of war. And we know that rea is full of this war.
That flow, rea is a flow. That flow is full of this war, full of it. Fantastic. What else is she
called? Sotera. I don't know if you noticed in the clip, I'm going to play it again because I want you
to see the titans and the giants. But that flow that is rea is called the savior.
She is the savior. Why is Cronus important? Why is Saturn important? Because he responds to rea
and does what she says. She is the one who has the power. And what do they call her? The palm
bacillia. She who is the all queen. He's only a one ox. Cronus is only a one ox. That's that
Mycenaean king. This is before anything, Moses, anything that you can possibly think from
from what you and I call the Bible. This is before. These are the Mycenaeans doing this.
And there she is. What a beautiful, beautiful goddess. Image that hits you right here. Like I said,
Nazis are no match. This tears through them all to the core. Love this. And she is that one who
loves war and she is what the savior and she is what the one who brings that cleansing of demons.
Do you have demons today? Do you have a little demon that needs to be cleansed? I can cleanse
you demon. I can cast out that demon. I've got a place for you to go to Cyprus several thousand
years ago. And once you're there, those demons can be drawn. They can be drawn from you.
Yeah, it's a place of healing. It's a hospital. Those clever Greeks were building communal
hospitals, places where they could purify their citizens. Isn't that nice? If you had a place
like that, we might have we might have a little bit more calm. There may not be this electricity in
the air. Yes, yes, you have to bring that mania, that madness in order to achieve that calm.
That calm. Fantastic. And I just want to say at the here near the end of the oath, near the end of
him, excuse me, says she's a savior multiple times. And then it says, remember, this word
savior is far before Christians are calling anybody savior. What does she send on the whole,
on the entire earth? What does she send out, Rea? She sends out the Cades. She sends out what?
What does this great goddess send us? The nurse of Bacchus. What does she send us? She sends us death.
Death. You know what the Cades are? They're those sisters that pull, that pull the soul from the
body as it's dying. They fly. They fly to you within a moment. Nobody's faster than these kitties,
right? Nobody's faster. They fly to you at the moment of your death, particularly violent death.
Right? We're not talking due to falls asleep in his bed or, you know, we're talking about
a person who loses it, who has their life taken. Yeah. This is what Rea, this is what Rea gives us.
Now, welcome to the mystery. What did, what did it say in the, what did it say in Enoch that
they were teaching them? I'm sorry. I just want to, I just want to say this. Oh, they were teaching
them drugs, epodes. Oh, Sophia's wisdom, words of wisdom, cleansings of these demons. Astroscopia,
looking at the, looking at the stars and determining fate from stars. That's nice. Astrologia,
right? The eighth one. What did they teach me? Oh, that eighth person. Here's a clue for anybody
who's paying attention to the clues. Fish, there's your eighth person, the eighth that is spoken of
in the book of the apocalypse. The eighth is there within the right. And what is that eighth doing?
Yeah. They are teaching the iroscopy, the observation of the things that take place in the air.
Do you have that ability to see the signs? It says they taught them signs about the sun and the moon
and drawing down the moon. And then the very last line, I don't mean to keep you. I'm sorry,
I'm keeping you so long, is they teach them the hand down, the mystery to their children,
the hand down, the mystery to their children. Yeah. And they, it's at this time, says your author.
That these giants started eating human flesh.
They were eaters of human flesh. And I know if you're a Greek, an ancient Greek,
it pains you to bring up the past that you don't like to talk about. But you know that you can
drink a woman's abortion. You know that you can. And you know the power that it conveys.
Because you're part of the Titan culture. You are those bow people. You are those
strainers who find that tension and run around with your songs and your drugs.
Yeah. Do you see these people? Get off the Nephilim. Get off the Nephilim. That's fairytale world.
This is a Greek text talking about good old fashioned anthropology and history.
Let's pull our heads out of it. That's what we're trying to do is pull our heads out of this
and see the world. It's fantastic to be able to work with you. And it's a real pleasure.
I want to just play Rhea one more time. I want to play Rhea one more time.
And then we'll call it out. And I want you to look for those giants and Titans now.
Her mate Prometheus the great vulture herself eats out his liver. We come to Cronus the Promethean
and we say one more time. What is that golden age?
Thank you for coming tonight. Hail Satan.
Ours to me on Sunday. It's gonna break her heart not knowing what.
