Take me to that happy hour I never had Show me the girl I never met, I want it so bad
Where is that golden palace Where is that hawk called destiny
I think she ran on without me
Hey, thanks for coming back to Lady Babylon.
We have our Wednesday night Bible study, and tonight's topic will be a little bit dark
and spooky.
We're going to look at some coded language within myth that is used in cult, cults with
vampires.
In order to warm up tonight, I thought I would introduce a new segment.
It's called testimonials, and I'm so humbled at the responses that people have had to the
material that I thought it would be important for you to hear their voices, or to hear your
voices.
I'm going to ask these people all the same questions, and if I didn't get you in tonight,
don't worry, it's because the question wasn't yours.
The question that we have tonight is, how has reason freed you from a cult?
But reason got me out of the web of the Churchianity that had been strung around it, so I reasoned
out of that, and just saw the flaws in it and understood the worship of the Bible, which
is what Christianity is, it's the false God, alright?
Because they want every word to be true, they want, somehow God is exonerated because the
Bible is true, and when you realize all the holes in that, that is reasonable.
And that got rid of that side.
So I was left on my own to discover this, and so my family encouraged me, they're like,
well, we ain't going to tell you what to do, but try to go to a church.
And so I went to some several churches, and I had a bad experience at a Catholic church,
where I remember where they wanted to baptize me.
It took me in a back room, and I ran out, I remember being like 12 years old.
It was some years later that once the family situation got cleaned up, and all the bad
kids, the older siblings were in jail and have you, my father converted to Jehovah Witness,
and they would come over to the house, and I had long hair then, because I was rock and
roll, and they used to tell me, you got to cut your hair, you got to shave your head,
you got to cut your hair.
And I showed them the magazine, the Watchtower Track Society, they would have these little
magazines they'd bring, the Jehovah Witness, and I said, well, Jesus had long hair, and
I showed them the picture, and I go, why can't I be like that?
And they said, well, that was different.
And that's what set me off on my study of what is Christianity, who is Jesus, and where
do these books come from?
So yeah, basically what happened with me is, as a young person in high school, I got involved
with evangelical Christianity through youth groups and through friends, and I became very
heavily involved into that religion and way of thinking, and it became quite abusive.
And even after I left because of abuse that was happening, I was still in that kind of
mindset for a long time, and it wasn't until I got into academia, and I went to the roots
of these texts, like in the Bible, and I realized what these people were telling me was wrong,
and that they were lying, and I started to embrace this reason approach, and I started
to think about and face reality as it is, and I realized that for me, the reason why
I fell into this trap of abusive religion is because I was looking for some kind of magical
answer.
You know, I was denying the reality that was staring me in the face.
So I think it's a huge important thing that we embrace reason, and we think about and
approach the world from that perspective, like we're looking at things as they really
truly are, because if you don't, you open yourself up to be lied to and exploited, you know.
Thank you so much, everybody who participated in that round of questions.
We'll have more to come in the future.
Tonight, I want to start by turning to the friend, poet, warrior, who created the
hymns that were used in, at a period of time in history when Vlad the Impaler was doing his
thing.
This is Mike Maroulis.
Mike Maroulis, I want to bring in tonight.
He's the first ghost that we bring.
Mike, can you tell me from your century, can you tell me, Mike, where is she?
Where is the Minerva?
I want to go with a little bit of the Etruscan tonight, because we're going to be looking
at some coded language, and I want you to be able to absorb that from the Etruscan.
So let's go to Dracula's Poet Warrior.
Let's go to Dracula's Poet Warrior.
This is Mike Maroulis.
His hymn to the palace.
If we can bring that up, that first reading, please.
Thank you.
Oh, it's gorgeous.
Te te Suprema Maximi Proles Joes in Nupta Palas in Wocco.
Let me take my position here.
Nupta Palas in Wocco, hasta e potente nobiles viraginem, quam forkes asperat ferox, qum multilingue
sibilis quasans kaput prokul profanus submoet.
And with those words, the Orphic Way is begun with purification.
She stands there, this manerva.
She stands there with her many languages and sibilations, just bringing out this tone
that causes all of us to be purified.
It prevents the arrival of what they call the profane, the profane, fantastic.
I want you to go to the next page of this then.
This is the end near the end of the invocation.
This is, I just wanted you to read, this is round line 64.
I want you to just look at line 64 and see the Latin word fanata, fanata.
That should sound familiar to those of you who have ears to hear.
Wait a minute.
He's calling manerva fanata.
No.
I'm not just calling manerva fanata or fanase.
He is invoking the light bringer.
Yes, he is fantastic, fantastic.
E adim virgo, virago, excuse me, mas e adim, e adim furor sapientiakue, e adim et quies.
She is the virago.
She is that masculine, feminine form in its perfection with complete sapientiakue with
that wisdom.
That's her.
This is the person that we, if we are with Vlad, that we are approaching to bring a cleansing,
to bring us to the place that we can establish our templum and its practice.
Yes.
Oh, did anybody smell the Etruscan connections?
And by the way, there's Etruscan bits and pieces all over being spread with the mirrors
looking through the mirrors into both the Asia minor influence, the influence within
modern day, what you call Ukraine, Thrace down into just following the coast, right?
And down into, this all starts with those people on those horses.
So those people on those horses, yeah, yeah, wonderful, wonderful stuff.
And it ends up, it ends up in Romania.
Yes, it ends up in Romania after years just blossoming, blossoming under Vlad.
Well done.
Well done Vlad.
And I might remind you for those of you who can't taste the difference, this is wonderfully
classical Latin, wonderfully.
The Latin surrounding that came before this is terrible.
It's terrible.
It's, oh God medieval Latin, sorry medievalist out there, but I'm a classicist and your
Latin is terrible.
Yes.
You might be good at it.
Don't get me wrong.
You might be good at that terrible Latin.
Okay.
I'd like to go to the next hymn.
We're going to continue on and bring dawn, right?
This is Eos de dawn.
And I just want you to see that in the first two lines, Cluthi Theob, remember the images
that we're putting into your mind are the images of the Thesmaphoria, right?
You're here if you're a man, you're dressed like a woman, so you don't get kicked out.
If you're a woman, you're here because your rights are the oldest.
Oh, and that makes it makes me want to make the goddess dance like every mystic God does.
And that brings us back to the hymn, to dawn.
And here she is in these first two lines.
I just want to read them for you, Cluthi Theothnatois, Faizim Brothon, Himal Agusa.
Oh, isn't that beautiful?
Yes.
What is it about dawn that we must enter into her worship in order to perform this mystery?
It's because she is bringing the mystery itself.
She is that one that brings that light.
She is the one.
Let's go to who follows her?
Who follows light?
Well, since we're in the Thesmaphoria, next text, please, we're going to be looking at
Thymus because the Thesmaphoria is all about Thymus.
You thought this was Bible studies.
It is Bible studies because you're here to watch.
You're here to witness an actual mystery.
If you don't understand what a mystery is, how can you possibly ever read the Bible?
Think about it.
Yeah.
How can you ever read the Bible?
How can you pretend to read the Bible?
I've had seminarians tell me I was right.
You can't.
You can't.
You have to jump into the crime scene.
You have to look around.
You have to take things.
There are clues here.
I'm going to give you the clues now.
Let's look at the clues and follow it.
Let's go to Thymus.
Why are we at the Thesmaphoria to honor Thymus?
Thymus.
You'll notice Urano, Paede, Hagnene, Calleo, Thimen, Eopatraean, Pateraean.
Excuse me.
Gaia Stablastema, Neen, Calucopi da Coren.
That Calucopi da Coren, take it off, that Calucopi, that Calyx-faced Cora is who we're
talking about with Thymus.
Who is Thymus?
Thymus is what we bring women in the rites of the Thesmaphoria.
Yeah.
Remember, we've beaten all the men away with sticks.
Right?
Can't come.
Right?
Why?
I don't know.
Maybe it's because only you can do it.
This is Lady Babylon after all, right?
So we're all here and we're looking at these, we're looking at these bringing her, Thymus,
into a reality.
And I just want you to notice in that second line, that Calucopida, that face, what is
her face?
What is her alps?
It is the face of the bud, the Calyx, protecting that bud, right?
The new, fresh, Thymus, the Coren, right here, it's Coren, do the dialect, right?
Yeah.
And why is this so important?
Bring up the text one more time.
I just want you guys to see this.
You have to see this.
Look at that third line.
Hei proti kat edek sebrotois mandeion agnon.
Isn't that nice?
Isn't that nice?
She is the first to show to mortals what?
The mantic holy right.
Yes, next page of her.
What else is she going to bring us?
She's going to bring us the actual mysteries, right?
She is sabasime, nukti poleote.
She is that one who rules by the power of Nix.
She brings that.
She is the one.
Look at the third line from the bottom.
Exe ogartimae makaron musteria thagna.
Yeah, thagna.
Yeah.
You notice the word musteria there.
You see that word musteria?
She is the one who brings the honors.
She's the one who brings the holy mystery.
You can't have it without this Korah.
You cannot have the mystery.
The mystery operates around her.
Yeah.
Makes you wonder why.
Mary didn't jump in before it was too late.
Let's go to Hephaestus because I want to show you the key to opening up the head of the
God of Jehovah, opening up the head of Jehovah to bring her out.
How do we do that?
We do that through Hephaestus.
And who is Hephaestus?
Just look at the bottom line here.
Phosphore.
You know who else?
They call Phosphore the devil.
He is the bringer of that phos.
Yeah.
Lucifer or Lucifera, the male-female, Minerva is the devil.
Wonderful.
Take us to the, take us to the, um, to Malinoway, please.
Isn't that nice?
Look at the very bottom line.
Who is she on the top, first of all, for those of you who want to know Malinoway, Malinoway
is the Chthonian numphae.
What is that numphae?
It is that stage, immediately preceding marriage, Chthonian.
She's not just any numphae.
She's the Chthonian numphae, right?
She is that Chthonian nymph.
And um, where was she born and who was she born to?
Persephone.
Excuse me.
You're not supposed to say that.
You're supposed to say Korra or Korwa, if you're coming from the Mycenaean side.
You're never supposed to pronounce her name.
Yes, interesting.
Um, look at the last line in that very same, him right there.
Look at this.
Um, this is caused, I usually don't bring up translators, personal translator, because
they try, they try to do their job, but this time I'm going to bring up the most excellent
translator of the Orphic hymns, who is Athanasakis.
And he does a fantastic job, typically, except here in this last line, Thumoi, Persephone
is the translation here.
He translated the somatons dual-bodied or double-fleshed, which would be great if it
was this plus omaton, but we know the root soma is in there.
So the prefix really here is D, not this, this means twice.
But D, as lactantius tells us, is the beginning of the word si bule, si bule.
Who is the si bule with the si bines?
She is the one who brings the bule, the council, the rule of the si or, as we're told, D, through
an Etruscan loop, we get to the sea.
Wait a minute, are we in Northern Italy?
Yes.
Are we in modern-day Turkey?
Yes.
Are we in Ukraine?
Yes.
Yeah.
Wow.
Wow.
Remember, I've warned you about getting taken out back, a lot of the stuff that they have
in academics is meant to kind of come here, come here, little person, and one of those
big things that's used as a lure, big candy for the kitties, is the Indo-European and
the Indo-European, the Proto-Indo-European, that do not exist, tend to obscure our understanding
of the linguistics of antiquity.
What do we know from the Greeks that there is this group, there's this ethnic group,
the Polaskians, and there's some of the old, old, old generation that comes, that is part
of these Bronze Age migrations.
So we get their groups scattered in different places, with different people claiming to
be the ancestors of that original group of Polaskians.
And you can put your connection to the Etruscans right there.
So what is happening in the language, what is happening in the language, the, bring us
up that last hymn line again.
Thank you, Chewy.
Yeah.
How is this translated?
Yeah.
Well, it's translated terribly here.
I'll just read to you.
I'm sorry, Dr. Athanasakis, but you know, you can take it.
You can take it.
Yeah.
And here's his translation, whose skin, when she was pregnant, he mangled in anger.
Yeah.
He's trying to form this, but wait, he's trying to form, I'm sorry, he's trying to form this
to his preconceived notion of the myth.
You know, this is done all the time.
Don't worry about it.
It's translators have to try to make sense of things.
But if this is de somatone from the Etruscan side, and it's leaking in here, then what,
which makes sense in the right, right, to write for the Korah, then what is the espace?
That really is the word for drawing.
Yes.
Yes.
For drawing or sucking, drawing out, drawing out.
What's happening?
Now is drawing out the God bodied sustained flesh, the God sustained flesh.
And it's whose flesh?
It's the Korah's flesh.
And where is this flesh going?
It's going through my, it's going into the, into the breath, into the understanding.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So here we have a reference to some kind of consumption of something, some kind of, well,
here's the fun thing about classics.
If we know that we're in the context of a hymn, and we know that this hymn is being sung
during performance, during a cult performance.
And we know that these mysteries, and we can get just a little tiny look inside the mysteries,
we thought you guys were getting the mysteries, right?
Weren't you for 55, 95?
That's not how it works.
Or if you go into Harvard, Japan, you guys are paying $60,000 a year, right?
Anyway, you can't sell it.
So let's look inside.
Let's look inside just for a moment inside this hymn that we've gotten.
It's opening up for us.
What is the background of what's being performed in the song?
What's happening?
And when we get there, we find that somebody is consuming the flesh of the God.
Okay?
Everybody cool?
Everybody cool with that?
All you Bacchants, all you Menad women who got together, you have this thing where you
descend from the mountains, and you take out human beings and maraud through villages,
and you tear apart men who shouldn't be messing with you, and you consume the flesh.
You go into the homophagy.
Yeah, you guys won't be offended by any of this.
But let's look at the language and we'll give you a chance to look right into the religion
now.
So what happens?
We're drawing the flesh of this.
We're sucking the flesh of this.
Where else do we see this draw?
We see this draw on Escalus.
Go to the last text here.
Not that one.
Yep.
Oops.
Here we go.
Got this.
Here is a translation by Smythe.
I just want you to see it's an engagement in the libation bearers to the Chorephoroi,
to between Orestes and Chorus, and you can see the talent he says, and where does the
tail end?
And what is its consummation?
And the Chorus says, she laid it to rest as if it were a child in swaddling clothes.
Oh, I forget to tell you.
This is Clyde of Nestra, and she dreamed she gave birth to a serpent.
Okay.
She dreamed she gave birth to a serpent, and what does she do?
She put it in swaddling clothes.
Yeah.
What food did it crave?
The newborn viper.
And the Chorus says, in her dreams, she offered it her own breast, and Orestes says, surely
a nipple was not wounded by the lusts and beasts, and the Chorus says the line relevant
to us and our hymn, no, it drew the clotted blood with the milk.
It drew the clotted blood with the milk, and this is the last line at the bottom.
Yeah.
And it says, Spasi, she's drawing up, she's sucking that, excuse me, that serpent is sucking
up this clotted blood congealed with in the milk.
That's fine.
You can take it off.
In the milk.
Yes.
Drawing up this clotted blood in the milk, in this act, yeah, gorgeous.
What is happening?
We know the glane is drawn from the breast, so there we have a reference, a balancing
of our dote and our antidote.
Right in the hymn, it's nice that it's right there snug, and in the context of the drugs.
Great.
Now, how do we take this and apply it one step more outward so that what's the utility
of this so that we can see our own reality?
Look here at the top.
It says, Adam said, this is now bone of my bones and sarks of my sarks, flesh in my flesh.
Right.
She will be called Gunay.
She will be called Gunay because from the man she was taken, yeah, yeah, from the man
she was taken from LA thing is the Greek here.
And people will say, wait a minute, wait a minute.
I thought the Old Testament was written in Hebrew, right?
You've been paying those guys in Harvard too much.
You thought it was written in Hebrew, right?
Okay, well, let's see if it was because in the Greek, the idiom doesn't work.
She'll be called Gunay because she was taken from the man, but the man's name doesn't have
anything to do with Gunay.
So why is it saying she'll be she be called this because she was taken from man?
Now, linguistically, it doesn't work out, right?
Okay, must not be written in Greek.
Mm, must be Greek, must be a translation.
That's what we've all thought for so long.
The problem is the Hebrew is Isha.
The ah on the Isha is just a feminization.
It has nothing to do with the verb for pulling out of or coming from.
So once again, it doesn't make sense.
The only language that it makes sense is the Latin that uses the Etruscan, old words.
We find old words in Latin that are from Etruscan, from Etruscan, like paulculum.
That special cup that you drink the ceremony of potion is, that's a paulculum, yeah.
And here we have one as well.
We have a word that's coming through the Etruscan tradition here.
Yeah.
And that is where I go.
And it means from led from man.
Where is man and I go?
The agroot in Latin is the word for leading or driving.
So what's funny is this statement should be called woman because she was taken from man
makes perfect sense if the word we're all girl is used, but it makes no sense either
way in native Greek or in Hebrew.
Now there's no way this Etruscan tradition is coming through the Hebrew.
The words are different, but the words overlap, the roots overlap in Greek.
So what is likely to be happening, your Septuagint, your Greek Old Testament is the original
and it is conveying as Greek does aptly Etruscan ideas.
That's as close as we can get to that original source.
Now you were told that this isn't how the world is put together and you will have somebody
come to you, a Semitic study scholar, and they will throw the 10th century at you.
Yes.
And you can tell them.
You can tell them that you are looking for that original.
That original is the secret of the vampires.
Yes.
It's the secret of those who suck the hyma.
Yeah.
It's the secret that is both medical and individual and personal.
Their secret is a woman.
Yeah.
And that makes me want to make statues dance.
Thank you for coming tonight.
Now that we know the secret of the vampires is a woman.
Let's next time we meet, we're going to traipse through in the Bible study, we're going to
traipse through the Renaissance and we're going to follow those who also followed her.
Isn't this nice?
I want you to see the Saturnian rights through time.
I want you to see the dragons who protected those rights.
I want you to see the order that was established and what exactly the vampires moved into what
they became and what they did and how your history is not a history of Bram writing
about a guy in a box.
There are real, real roots of Dracula out there and these are preserved for us thanks
to the people like Mike who was able to write down perfect, possessed, Orphic Latin hymn
was able to write down exactly for you.
The description of her, yes, beautiful, beautiful.
Have a good night.
Thank you for coming tonight and for all of you who are asking me questions, I'm getting
to my emails.
I'm getting to them as quickly as I possibly can, but I just want you to know again how
nice it is to be conversing with people who are stepping up and who are saying, oh, well,
you know what?
Let's go investigate this.
Go look at this and using their reason.
So thank you.
Thank you.
And thank you for your time tonight, everyone.
