Sunday morning, dark clouds rising, oh there's no sunshine anywhere, strong winds blowing,
God give us wisdom to grasp the message in the air.
If I could have one wish and know that it would come true,
I'd wish that God would give us strength to know just what to do,
then we could tear down the fences that fence us all in.
Fences created by such evil men, then we could tear down the fences that fence us all in.
Maybe we could walk together again.
Lady Babylon, this is Satanic initiation and tonight I want to bring you to the place of the Hexad.
I want to shatter that reality that is the fairy tale around us and I want you to see into the eclipse.
Tonight on Lady Babylon.
Tonight before we cleanse the place, I want to do something special.
I want to bring to you just a little bit of the past, the past that will show us the present and the future as one entity.
These are three sides of the triangle.
I'm going to take us to the crossways tonight.
Tonight we're going to go into that eclipse.
We're going to see with the eyes of our Achillicus.
We're going to watch as Zeus covers that sun's power and through the moon brings us those moments of darkness when the kingdom of darkness has its sway.
Welcome to Lady Babylon's Friday the 13th edition.
What I'm going to do right off the bat before we grab the sulfur and cleanse this place is I want to bring to you Chuck.
Chuck Baudelaire. Chuck has written something for us, you say.
Well, of course he did. He's a prolific author.
No, no, that's not what I'm talking about.
Charles Baudelaire has written something for us.
You see tonight it comes off the page.
Let's go Chuck.
I'm going to read to you from the Oxford world's classics.
Charles Baudelaire, the flowers of evil, a new translation.
Yes, fantastic.
Just for you. Just for you, the congregation. It was just for you. You're going to thank me for it.
Don't worry, it's just connections. That's all.
Tonight examination, the clock chimes the midnight in and ironically gives us the charge to remember the fleeting day.
What usage we made of our time today, that fateful day, Friday the 13th.
We have, in spite of all that we know, behaved like a heretic.
We have blasphemed Jesus, the most incontestable of all gods, like a parasite at the feast of some monstrous profligate.
We have, to please the brute, that worthy vassal of hell insulted what we love and flattered the one we scorn.
Vile torturer.
Welcome. Welcome to the Friday the 13th. Tonight I want to bring you to the hexad.
So in order to do that, we have to cleanse this temple and we have to summon the spirits of the dead.
Please take us to the hexad, Chewie.
And just how do we go about finding this hexad?
How do we walk the steps? How do we follow the way?
In order to get there together tonight, we have to first partake of the blessed communion.
The blessed communion. Shall we get there? How are we going to get there? Is everybody ready?
I am going to show you a text in just a second. This first text that I'm going to show you is a text that 10 years ago I had to fight anybody on the planet
to read and understand. It's a text about drugs. It's several. It's several about drugs and about the communion and about the wine of Bacchus.
And I remember. I remember this is so important because the whole idea 10 years ago of the communion being a compound drug, people were laughing.
Yes, they were. Somebody came to me and author came to me and I consulted with them and there you have it.
I want you to see it tonight. I want you to see the communion. Let's pull it up, Chewie. Let's go to the first start chart.
People, look at this.
You know what? The guy started speaking. I'm translating. The guy started speaking. He was totally in awe.
This sweet, sweet, sweet potion that he's drinking so much so the next line down, he starts.
He starts. Hallelujah. He's screaming. Hallelujah. Are you screaming? Hallelujah. You ever had a drink that made you scream? Hallelujah.
You probably haven't been to the mystery yet. If you haven't. If you haven't.
He screams. Hallelujah. And what comes out of his mouth, this song, this agrarian song, this earthy nature song.
Okay, let's give me some more of that waiter. Can I have another one of what he's having? Please. Thank you.
Agronomoi. Who are these guys, the agronomoi? These are the farmers. These are the guys who are out in the countryside, right?
What do they do? They're very greedily filling up their cups. Why? Look at that second line, people in Greek.
Look at that second word in. Right from Bacheo. Oh my goodness. They're causing their minds to be what? To be. How are they doing it?
With this mind with shattering wine, with this mind shattering wine, this wine that's going to make you lose your mind.
Have you been to communion? My brothers and sisters, have you been to communion?
Somebody wrote in and they said, I wish you could know about the peace of Jesus Christ and what it is to be filled with the spirit.
I thought, my brother or sister? Yeah, I forget which one it was now. My brother or sister, I thought to myself, I thought, I know exactly what you're talking about.
Exactly. And with that power of Christ, I brought people to salvation. I changed lives.
I watched people get up off of the very bottom and try to get back on their way up through the power and love of Jesus Christ, the Son of God.
I witnessed that. I lived it.
It still does not erase the scientific historical fact that Jesus Christ was arrested in a public park with a naked boy at 4am.
You can't wipe that out of history. He is still there. And I'm telling you, my brothers and sisters in Christ, I am telling you.
I am a man of faith. I am a man washed in the blood of Christ. And I am telling you, he was arrested in a public park with a naked boy.
Let's go. We're getting the cup, people. We're getting the cup. Let's get to the next source, Chewie. Watch this, people.
Oh, my God. And this chorus of these people come down now. What are they? They're driven last.
They're last by this murderous, and there's the, look at the last word in the first line.
With the oistress, the mania, the purple. Guess who showed up? Yay, it's the lightning. We're all here now. Welcome back, everybody.
Get up and start dancing. You can take it off now if you want. Throw on your leopard skin. Off we go. Off we go.
Somebody, somebody, give me that text. Here, look at this. Wait, go back to the first one, Chewie. We didn't finish our job here, did we?
No, but they ran upon, look, and what does this group of people do? They run up on this guy named Icarius.
And what's in their mind?
What is that?
Lyssa is the goddess of madness. If you don't know Lyssa, you haven't been anywhere yet. You think your feeling of the spirit was something?
Seriously? I'll show you how to raise up snakes. I'll show you how to drink poisons that won't kill you, right?
I am the Christ on the 13th. Isn't that nice? The antidote for the dote. Fantastic. Give me that last one.
What's happened? Look at this. One line of Greek people. And now remember 10 years ago, all kinds of people told me and told other people and flushed me out of academia because I was saying they were using drugs in the ancient world, right?
Not just medical drugs, but drugs related to the religions. Yeah. And people said, no, no, no.
We will not live in that world.
Yes. And I said, come here, you.
Do you feel that? That should get you all the way back to St. Andrews. That's where that should take you.
Sorry. There should be no spanking. There should be. Make a note of that, Chewie.
Let's go to the next. I'm sorry, but it feels so good. Look, the what is somebody's going to drink this stuff. These beyond somebody's going to drink this stuff.
And what's going to happen? They're going to drink this run this flowing of this wonderful wine, this amazing wine that does what?
That's a combination of mind and awakening. It literally says awakening the mind. Look at how fast.
Look at how fast. Incredibly powerful the ancient Greek is. Do you think you're going to find a word like this in Aramaic?
No. You think you're going to find it in Hebrew? No, you will not.
Do you think you're going to find it in any of the Italic Italic languages? How about Oscar? No, Umbrian? No, no, no, no, no.
How about the Samaritans? No.
It's Friday the 13th. Yes. Let's find where's that? Chewie, where is that whipping?
Bring in the whipping boys. Bring it. Yes. Over here, guys. Let's go. March, two, three, four. Bring them out. Bring us the next.
Bring us the next one. Bring us the next one in. Look at this. This is the awakening. I'm about to give you the awakening.
Oh, you're going to love it. This is why Jesus is walking around grabbing children's hands, bringing them back to life.
Where are the drugs, Jesus? Where are the drugs? Show us the next one. Here, where's, bring it.
Whipping boy, grab me the drugs. Grab me the drugs. Look at this, people. It's Greek. Be civilized about this.
And what is this? This is Genesis chapter two, verse one. Now, we're going to read the actual version tonight. You've never seen this.
Let me bring in the whipping boy of not so sophisticated linguistic savvy. And let's see what we can make of this Greek.
I want you to see the real tax for the first time. I want you to see it, right?
Okay, let's start. Let's go to the, I want to start with the Hebrew because you and I are swimming backwards in time.
Tonight, yes, the next one. Tonight, we're swimming backwards. Okay, now we're at the 10th century, 10th century AD.
All you guys, get off, get off the bus. Get off the bus. Step out for a minute. Don't worry, the bus will wait for us.
It's a little vacation. I used to take these when I was living on Kibbutz in Yisrael.
Kibbutz Yisrael in the northern kind of just the north side of the West Bank. Yeah, and I got off one night to the howitzers that the Israelis pulled up.
They pulled up these howitzers because the Lebanon had been shooting rockets at us. It was not nice. They killed somebody in the city.
It was where I got falafel every day for lunch. It was, it was most inconsiderate. It was tragic, right? For a family, it was tragic.
Yeah, but we would go on vacations. We would go on vacations and that's what we have to do here. This is a break.
We've had the communion. We've had that wine that's driving us out of our wits as initiates, and now let's go through the 10th century Masoretic text
because you guys are all lovers of the English translations. Go to the Masoretic text. Blow it up for me, Chewie. Blow it up for me.
Look, this is verse two, and I just want you to take a, you know, just a cursory look at the English.
So something was finished and then heavens and then earth. Yeah, right, right, right.
The Eretz, baby. The Eretz. Do you know what I mean? The Eretz. They got the Eretz. Love it. And what about that?
What is it? Ha-Shamim. Is that what that is? Yes, it's been a while since I've pulled out my Hebrew.
But okay, we got the heavens and we got, you know, this kind of army thing going on there. Huh. Okay. What did the King James do with this Hebrew?
King James, where is that? So, you know what I mean? King James, next one. King James, here it is. Here it is.
Oh, thank you, King James. Thus the heavens and the earth were finished and all the host of them, all the host of them.
Okay. Is that what the Greek says? No, it's not. It's not. Now watch this. This is what I'm bringing you. It's not. I'm bringing you a sacrifice.
This is a piece of the past that has shaped your present, but your future will no longer be affected by it because you will cut through this fragment, this appropriations event.
Cultures are doing this in antiquity. They're appropriating things, right, for their own uses.
And the Septuagint was appropriated to the use of a people who used it to establish a text because they had no established text.
By the time that the Maserids are worried about this, you've had 2,000 years of established text on the Greek side. Why? Why people? Watch what happens.
Watch what happens. I'm going to show you the Greek one more time and then I'm going to show you. I'm going to translate it for you. Are you ready?
Kaesun etelets desan houranos kaigei kaipaso kosmos auton. So your sky and your earth are uranos and gaia, or gay, right?
And what are they doing? What are they doing? They're soon teletowing. They're soon teletowing. What does that mean? We'll see.
And what about the whole cosmos? I didn't hear a cosmos in the King James translation. What's the cosmos? How did that get in there?
Let's go see right now for the first time what this is saying. Go to the next one. The next one.
Soon etelets desan. Here's our verb. What does it mean to do this thing? Next one.
Well, look, it comes from teletow. Teletow, right? And here are all the meanings for teletow. For teletow. To finish, right? To finish.
Look down here to fulfill, right? To bring the completion. People, I just want to sit for a minute. I want you to look at this thing and I want you to notice all of this blue.
Does everybody see all of that blue? Do you know what those are? Those are texts. Those are other Greeks who were writing before anybody else has even thought about genres of literature.
Yeah. Yeah. Very fair. Look at these sources. Do you see all of these blue things are sources? Look at how big the ancient Greek linguistic umph is.
Look at how big it is. This is the first page for this one verb that is the core of the verb that you and I are looking at.
My God, is it complex or what? Watch. Watch how the Hebrews unable to capture it. And I'll show you a linguistic trick that shows that the Hebrew is actually an attempt to back translate the Greek.
Fantastic. Fantastic. Let's go to the next one. Uh huh. Next one. Wherever we. Yeah. Yeah. Here is the verb in Hebrew. Are you ready?
Yeah. To what? To be complete, to be an in, to be finished, to be accomplished or to be spent. To be spent. Okay. To be finished or accomplished.
How did the, how, where were we in the translation? Cause that's pretty simple. To be finished or completed. I get that. There's no complexity. I feel good. The raft is not moving.
But look, there's a wave coming up. Where was that second one? And that verb to let, oh, guess what? It's got a whole nother page of meanings on it.
It's got a whole nother page of meanings on it. Look at these people. Look at these people. To bring to an end, to finish. Right. To come to an end, to fulfill. Right. To pay what one owes.
Okay. Wait a minute. It's drifting a little bit. It's drifting a little bit. Let's see how the movement of the word goes through time. This is the history of this word, people. This is the history of a highly complex Greek concept.
Give me the next one. Watch this. You're going to love this. Look at halfway. Look at, oh, look at how, to initiate in the mysteries. Wait a minute. You mean this word? Leave it up. This word is part of, is used for initiating into the mysteries.
Yes. Yes, it is. Does it fit the context of Genesis? Well, yes, it fits it perfectly. Fantastic. The Greek mind behind the Bible. And you have to realize what I am telling you tonight. Let it be announced. Let it be announced.
And by the way, speaking of announcements, I'll be on a radio program on the East Coast in New York, WABC, The Frank Morano Show, this Sunday. So on that program, I would love to be able to show people, to just very, very vividly demonstrate to people how their Bible,
their God, their religion is based upon something entirely different than what they think it is. Did you see that word to initiate? It's also used in magic. You know what you can do when you make something tell awesome magic? And when I say magic, I mean the stuff Moses and Jesus were both heavily using magic.
What can you do? What can you do with this magic? You can endow things. You can make them complete. Did you know you can endow something with a spirit, with a diamond? Did you know you can energize something? It's all quantum. You can do it. Fantastic.
You know what a good time to do all that stuff is? When you're at the crossroads. Yeah. You look in the three ways. Let's get to the Hexab. I love this. Okay, people. Hold on. Buckle up. Get back in the bus. We're leaving the 10th century. I don't know. Maybe we should beat it up a little bit more. The 10th century. Go ahead. Hit that one too. Oh, look, it's just more people. It's just a ton of more meaning that I just cannot keep pouring this into your brain.
Keep going. Next one. That's the to land to finish something right now. What about this cosmos? There was a cosmos in this verse that the that the King James missed because the King James relied on that 10th century Hebrew, Masoretic text.
Right, which we're going to show in just a second is a translation of the Greek. It's so cute the way this works out. It's like, dude, this is irrefutable. This is irrefutable. Put me into a room with some of the leading linguists, some of the leading philologists and Semitic studies people.
And let me show them this, please, please let me show them this. Okay, tonight you get to preview it, right? This is before we go to trial. You and I are just, by the way, shout out to everybody in the gallery tonight, who's been faithfully watching and who's had lots of great input and anything you want to say.
Say it. You know what I mean? Love it. Hail Satan, guys. Give me some Hail Satan's in that day. Okay, here we go. Let's get back to it.
Okay, call us up to the next tags, please. We're looking at cosmos. We didn't see it. How do they translate cosmos into Saba, right? Saba, which is like an army war or warfare. Okay, I see how those are combined together.
Saba sounds pretty straightforward, doesn't it? Is that what a cosmos is? Like, that is not even the furthest thing from a cosmos, but I'll show you why they use this word. Okay, just keep this word in mind.
Saba is an army for cosmos. What does the Greeks say? What does the Greeks say?
Nope. There we go. Blow that up. You're good. You're good. Back, back. Blow it up. Thank you, Chewie. Order, order. What is cosmos? Order, order. How about number two? Good order, good behavior, form or fashion?
Oh, interesting. Form or fashion, I kind of see. Look who's under form or fashion. Oh, God, I want to, I just want to nuzzle up close to this, to this gorgeous, gorgeous entry. Look at number three, form or fashion. They give you par amenities, right? Oh, God, you're going to see how this word transforms over time.
Give you the next page because there's more cosmos out there. What else is cosmos? What else is cosmos? Look at this one. Look at this one. Honor or credit? Yeah, yeah. Ruler, ruler or regulator. Ruler, regulator. Why? Well, it's all about order. It's all about order.
And look at number four. World order. Every day is talking about world order. What's a world order? There's going to be one world order. They don't realize they're talking about cosmos, but they do. And this doesn't exist. If there's another one, give me the other one. I want to see that one too.
And this doesn't exist. Yeah. Yeah, no, that. Oh yeah, leave it up for a second. And this doesn't exist in the world of the Hebrew, right? This one concept, cosmos, has a history that's a thousand years older than this Hebrew text that is supposedly translated in the third century.
Right? But which we know is originally a Greek text, which was then later back translated. It's why the guys, like take it down and then put it back in a second. It's why the guys with the fragments, they're always finding Greek with them, right? It wasn't Hebrew that they were translated into Greek, right?
They didn't need to do that. The Greek was already there. It was Greek that they tried to translate into Hebrew. And when they did, they made all sorts of mistakes. What kind of mistakes you say are the evidence that we can trace?
Those mistakes are the technical mistakes. It's like a fingerprint. They left their own fingerprint on the text as they back translated them. This is fantastic. You're going to love this.
Go to the next one. So look at this cosmos here. It's a microcosm. Okay, inhabited world. Look at the number five. It's the Pythagorean name for the Hexad. Cosmos is the Pythagorean name for the Hexad. And what you say you ask is that?
How could we possibly bring that to you? Let me just suck up real close here mentally. Let me just suck right up to Pythagoras through some of his students and just kind of pull that Hexad back in.
Pull that Hexad back in. It's an invisible letter. Did you know the Hexad is an invisible letter? Isn't that neat? You already know. You already have a knowledge of the names, right?
Now listen to this. Listen to this. They also called it the Hexad, the hurler of missiles, presider over the crossroads, and measure of time in twos.
Hurler of missiles from it being generated by the triad, which of course the Hexad is generated by the triad. Does any of us take math? I hope so. Not this kind though. See, we didn't have the good stuff. We had that basic Euclid.
This is a little bit more complex. This is the stuff that the people who are figuring out A squared plus B squared equals C squared, those nerds. This is their stuff. And by the way, a shout out to Robin Waterfield for this translation, because this is highly technical Greek.
Robin had to know a ton of mathematics to be able to write this, to be able to translate this. Nice job. Doc Waterfield. That's a light in the midst of a generation that is dark. Fantastic.
Presiding over the crossroads, perhaps from the nature of the goddess that is Hecate, with that moon coming in between the sun, you know, and its capacity of shedding light, right? Whenever the eclipse takes place, the moon and the sun are in combat with each other.
And we on the earth are the ones who suffer the switch. We suffer the switch. Don't be surprised if the dolphins, if the dolphins come up and live in the forest and all of those predators that live in the mountains, don't be surprised if they go live in the waters.
Nothing could be less natural than this switch. But it's a reality of quantum physics, apparently, according to the magi, at least. So the event, remember the event tomorrow and events like it, they're more like waypoints.
They're for a voice, for a sentient voice that sings existence. They are like waypoints. We don't get lost because of them. And the oracles find these waypoints and they then use them.
Right. And so it's guiding us. It's guiding us. Let me just finish this with the Hexad.
And each movement is twofold, being bounded on both sides by boundaries, right? The Hexad is the first to acquire the three movements of the dimensions.
These nerds, I tell you, as soon as they start this, I'm like, whatever.
Yeah. What is it mostly?
Since what is the Hexad? Give me the heart of what it is, Pythagoras. Just spill it to me. You know, your math is blowing my mind. It's just, you know, whatever.
Since there are seven celestial movements.
Okay. Those are the vowels. I know that if we're talking about the singing oracle. Okay. I'm with you so far.
Since there are seven celestial movements apart from the movement of the fixed stars, which is eight, but complex.
And since by their hurtling, they produce the same number of notes, then their intervals and as it were, means are necessarily six.
You mean the cosmos, the organization of everything that is, is under the control of the Hexad? Yeah. Yeah.
Interesting. Interesting.
That's quite a crazy arithmetic conclusion that you people have come to who are sitting there telling us about the future and operating this Bronze Age religion that ultimately would produce Judaism and Christianity and Islam from it.
My brothers and sisters in Christ or in Moses or in Allah, I have news for you.
Your gods are all the gods of the pagans of the Bronze Age.
Your ancestors worshiped Bacchus and Aphrodite. Let me say that one more time. Let me say that one more time.
My brothers and sisters who are Jews, Muslims and Christians, our ancestors worshiped Dionysus and Aphrodite long, long, long before your gods ever showed up.
Fantastic. Fantastic. Can you feel it near? It's the only power that permeates every, every sort of belief can be penetrated by this.
It's the power of love, baby. It's the power of arrows. Yeah.
It's the stuff that they don't want you to know the text is bringing you, but it's bringing you.
And here we go. Are you ready? Let's go back to the, let's go back to our text. We got to keep walking.
I don't want to keep people long. This is the night before, you know, so yeah, give me, let's go to Uranus.
Yeah. What else is in the picture here that we have to translate? Uranus, right? This is the sky.
The sky translated very simply as the sky. What is Uranus? Show me, show me.
Show me. Look at Uranus, right? The vault, the vault, right? Okay.
Look again, people, look at the, look at the thickness of the Greek and look at all of these sources, right?
In communion language, in common language, excuse me, it's the sky.
Okay, Pythagorean name of 10, 10, the deck at it.
Now I understand. Do you know what the deck at is? Well, how are you going to figure out what the hexat is?
If you don't know what the deck at is, the deck at comes after the known ad and the known ad is the number of unit is the arithmetic number of universal completion and perfection.
Oh my, are you kidding me? Is there this much meaning in these words?
Yes. Are you surprised at all that the Hebrew has just a, just a, just a little tiny.
And again, this is classical Hebrew, modern Hebrew is thriving and has taken its roots of vocab through the roof, right?
And they'll continue to do so because that's what living languages do. Unfortunately, Hebrew died.
Hebrew died and the only thing we had were the Greek sources.
You know what we should do? We should write a letter that says, hey, this thing was trans, was originally a Hebrew text that was translated.
Nobody believes that. You did, they didn't pull that over on the Greeks or the Romans. They knew that was BS, right?
Propaganda is important. Propaganda is important. Please, people, let me just take you to Megiddo.
I know I'm taking too long tonight, but let me take you to Megiddo and in this place where Armageddon is doomed to happen in this place as you dig down.
Underneath all of the garbage, toll stations that have sprung up in this Godforsaken place, right?
Because it's not a major trade round figures. That's where the end would be.
Where all you humans with your greed, as the watchers say, your greed, they talk about it like it's our terminal disease or something.
Anyway, Megiddo, when you dig down underneath all that stuff, you know what we found?
And yeah, I'll say we found because I was there digging. We found a Canaanite temple.
We found that temple. When you are standing in the eclipse, when you are in that moment, when via the moon's power, right?
Via the moon's power, you're able to access those three roads and you say, wait a minute, isn't this a solar event?
Of course it is. Yes. Do you know that the sun and the moon and the stars that they are all connected?
Yeah, you might say with gravitational forces or something along those lines, but there is a quantum link there.
Do you know how they're able to date events of the future from 3,000 years ago with the stars?
Right. So here's what we're doing in the midst of that eclipse.
In the midst of that time, that is when we have the date set for a switch.
And that switch kicks in and it kicks these new powers in with it.
Let's go to the next text, who is Uranos. Look at this people, Uranos.
He's the son of Erebus and Gaia. Wait a minute, what's it say on the next part of the line?
But husband of Gaia. Where is that guy, Paul? Where is that guy, Paul?
Paul, you think you're so smart. You think you're so smart. People, Paul the apostle. Paul the apostle.
Paul, you thought you were quite a smart guy, right? Paul with your letter to the Colossians.
You thought you were because you buried in there, Paul. You buried in there some meat, didn't you?
Paul, please, please give us an explanation of this Jesus Christ, Paul. Please.
But give it to us, Paul, in a way that only the Phrygians would understand, Paul, because these are the Colossians.
Yeah, I want some Phrygian roots here, Paul. Are you ready for this? Go then, go to that one.
Here is what Uranos comes from, Ordus. When you take the number six, when you take the Hexad and you bring the Hexad back, what do you get?
What do you get? What do you get? You get that limit. You get that limit. You find that cosmic limit.
Give me the next. He is that thing which is the boundary. He's the boundary. Uranos is the boundary.
What set the boundary? Leave it up for a second, shall we? What set the boundary? Gaia did. Gaia did when she entered into union with Uranos.
Remember, this is the magic book, says the author of Genesis.
This is the magic book of the generation of Uranos and Gaia. That's why we're all here. That's what we're all here to see.
And what is this? Well, what about Gaia? Where does she come from? Gaia has no father. She has no mother.
She does not come from a nymph. She does not come from, no. Gaia comes from water.
And all of a sudden, those of you who are sitting on your islands, worshipping Aphrodite, perk up and say, yep, yep, I get it.
I understand the transformation. I understand the castration and why it's a necessary event. Why must you hobble?
I'm back. Oh, that was painful. Let's not do that again.
Why must you hobble the sun?
Imagine that. Imagine that. The great three ways of traffic in the cosmos.
Do you hear how I just used cosmos? I used it like they used it. Not like we use it.
So what you can see is the Hebrew wasn't able to capture cosmos. It used the word for army. It used the word for army.
Now let's catch them. Do you know why they use the word for army? If you scan that definition of cosmos, you'll find that it can be used to station troops.
So the people who translated from the Greek assumed, oh, well, this is the way that they're using it.
And then they translated it that way. They reached for the one thing in Hebrew that they could find to kind of bridge that gap.
And they did. But it's just the word for army and it has nothing to do with the book of the magic generation of Urano Senkaya.
Not only that, but that word. Not only that, but that word for to finish the telit root. That word to let oh, it's a compound.
It's soon to let oh. In other words, it is now a degree more advanced technically. It is that much more highly specific.
So the Hebrew reached for the very base and wasn't able to capture the prefix. Why they don't have the vocabulary.
They just didn't have the vocabulary. It's just the development of language, how much time they had and what the influences were.
The Greeks are sitting around these islands, baby. Have you been to the palaces from the Mycenaeans?
Man, they had a good. And they developed a very sophisticated language for writing and for composing and for bringing things to life like drama.
They were the ones doing this and they did it through Bacchus. They did it through Bacchus. Do you know people?
I want to show you on the night before the eclipse on this Friday, the 13th. Thank you, Universe.
Thank you for this organization, for this cosmos that we can bring this Bacchic reality to life.
If you are Jewish, religiously, right? Because most of the people that I worked with in Israel were like, no, right?
They're concerned about democracy. That's what they were concerned about, surviving.
A lot of them didn't want to be doing what they were doing or thought their career could go this way or that way.
They didn't care about the religion. But for the people who do, I want to reach out to you and say, your religions are all Bacchic.
They're all based in Bacchic worship. And this is a drunken, enthusiastic, maniacal mystery that initiates you into death and to rebirth that brings you.
Why does it do all that? For the same reason that Moses built that temple, that tavernacle, excuse me, that tent in the wilderness
so that God could speak to him directly. Isn't that nice?
He made a locality, a telestarian, so that this God that we've just been reading about could communicate.
This is the one that messed up the garden, right? He could communicate through the magic with the power of the cosmos.
This is the magic book of the generation of Uranos and Gaia. Let's go on, Chewie. Let's go on.
We need to finish on a somber note. Yeah, just how about that one?
Yeah, I want to bring up because Paul was here. I was expecting this. Paul!
Yup, sermon position he got. He knows. Paul knows. He goes right away.
I'm in position, buddy. You know how it is. Give me this.
What did you tell me there, Paul? What did you tell me there? Who is the acorn?
Who is the acorn? The image, reflection. That is a reflection, people. It's not an image like you would see carved.
This is a reflection. Did you know the Greeks differentiated between the image that is the image and the image that is the reflection?
We call them both images. Yeah, yeah. But this acorn is the reflection.
Who is Jesus? Tell me. I have such a burden for those of you who are evangelicals and who are under that slavery of greed that is Christianity.
It is a slavery, a perpetual slavery to greed. You guys know if you didn't have...
We're talking about Jesus Christ who was arrested in public park with a naked boy.
If he didn't promise you an Ionic life, because he didn't promise you eternal life, he promised you Ionic life.
Look it up. If he hadn't promised you that, would you have followed him?
If you're going to ask yourself that, it's the same question the devil. Did you hear the devil? I heard the devil.
Chewie, the devil came. It's the same question the devil asked. Job only honors you because you give him things.
So this genius who destroyed the garden situation because he couldn't see that Lucifer, the hottest creature ever on my dad, would screw things up with Eve in the garden.
He couldn't see that coming. So he messed up the whole thing. He messed up the whole thing.
That guy comes along and he's giving us this system. Bring back up Paul. He's giving us this system to work with.
Jesus is the image of God.
Who? Of Thayu. Who? Thayu, the one who is unseen.
Wait a minute. You mean Fannes? Okay. All of you have had a little bit of the Greek and you've been looking at the sources.
This is the unseen one. This is coming from the waters.
Coming from the waters. Do you feel Genesis now? You should. You should be starting to begin to understand the Genesis.
We sent this stuff here eons ago. It should be taking effect right about now.
Watch this. He's the Prototakos, that firstborn of all of that which is produced.
Everything that is material reality. He is that firstborn.
Now for those of you who are Orphics, you hear that and it makes perfect sense because this is who the Orphics worship from the beginning.
This invisible God. This unseen God. And Jesus is that firstborn from that entity.
The cosmos. You're looking at the mystery of the cosmos in the face. Why is Uranus both the son and husband of Gaia?
Ready? Paul? Paul? Can you give us this one, Paul? Come on. Come on, Paul. Wake up.
Because in Phrygia, when you're dealing with the worshipers of Sibley, you're dealing with a son who is also a lover.
Yes. When Jesus was arrested in the public park with a naked boy, there's a reason for it. A very strong historical reason for it.
So I would end with saying for those of you who are praying for me, whether it be for my destruction, which I've gotten some of those.
Those are always entertaining. Or whether it be for my blessing, my blessing. I would ask you all just to do one thing.
Tell me, what's he doing with the naked kid? I don't like fairy tales and I'm tired of the lies.
I want the garden back and I want the gods who won't mess things up. I want Lady Babylon.
The dolphins must come to the mountains and the beasts who hunt in the forest, they have to return to the water in order for us to switch the poles.
Thank you for tonight. And may we together see this new world, this reality. Hail Satan.
Maybe we could walk together again. Just maybe we could walk together again.
