Drinking whiskey, when that whiskey's burnin'
Do my veins, Indian goes crazy
And the Scottsman wants to bash out the brain
Of an English man, don't know why
Got a little mixed up in the hills of Carolina
You see, you've got your selling, and you got your
Drinking whiskey, oh yeah
Drinking whiskey, oh yeah
Welcome to the season finale
Of Lady Babylon
Tonight is our second and final Bible study
That we skipped and now we're gonna slide into the finale
And it's a big end that we're coming to
I want to, I'm so proud
To be able to bring to you tonight the name Satan
I'm so proud to be able to bring this to you
Unfortunately, you know how it is guys
In order to get there, we're gonna have to cut through
Some people, we're gonna have to hack and slash
We're gonna have to purify, bring in those demons
Fill the whole place with sulfur, you know how it goes
This place needs a shakedown tonight on Lady Babylon
Let's go
Fantastic, I want to get right into it with a couple of comments
I just want to, we have a good and a bad
A good and a bad
So I want to bring those
Chewie, hit us with the good
Let's see the good, I like the good best
Always like that good news first
This is from Valerie Moore, such passion Chewie
Where do you get the images?
You are awesome, you have the receipts
Let's get rid of the lies and deceits, the deceit they preach
The more I watch you, the more my eyes are opening
Thank you so much, I am privileged
We're all privileged with you teaching this knowledge
Thank you very, very much Valerie
That's the nicest thing in the world
And Chewie wanted me to also say thanks
And let you know that these images are coming to you all
From the Wiki source
So yeah, love it, love it
We're staying within a realm
And it's nice to know, thank you
It's nice to know that the evidence is getting out there
Right, channels open, radios on
Fantastic, let's get the bad now, bring the bad
Quick, oh this one I pulled up
This bad I pulled up from a podcast by John Price
Dr. John Price, Sacred Speaks
Yeah, and I just, I missed these comments
I haven't gotten any of these lately and I'm really missing them
So this is from DeCollins
When Yeshua comes back
You will regret these words
Yes, yes
Oh Yeshua
Who's this guy Yeshua, I keep hearing about
To be honest, I look for him, I can't find him anywhere
Okay, fantastic, let's jump into it
Tonight I want to set your mind
Remember, last time we didn't come back from our trip
Right, we didn't come back, we're still
We left that capsule going, that space capsule's running
And we stuck ourselves, boom
We stuck ourselves in the second century
Stuck ourselves there tonight in order to find Satan
In order for us to be able to say
Okay, this is our museum
We're not giving it back to you people
We don't care where you're from
We don't care what you think, we don't care what your theories are
We're going to keep this, the museum is ours
Okay, so tonight I want to set you in that place
With this first video that we're going to watch
And kick them in, subliminal light speed, Yeshua
On my mark, hit it
Thinking about the days that used to be
High on a mountain standing all alone
Wondering where the years of my life have flown
Oh, I wonder if you ever think of me
Or if time's blotted out your memory
As I listen to the breeze
Whisper gently through the trees
I always cherish what you meant to me
High on a mountain, wind blowing free
Thinking about the days that used to be
High on a mountain standing all alone
I'm wondering where the years of my life have flown
Yeah, well I'm wondering where the years of my life have flown
So we're looking for Satan
And tonight you know where we're going to start
Did you see, did somebody as they opened the door
You didn't see who it hit, right?
We're going to go to Donka Lane Pagels
Let's go to the very first, yep, there you go
Look, this is etymological definition, right?
We're trying to find out, what is Satan?
It's a proper name, right?
Of the supreme evil spirit
I'll take that with sour cream please
And great adversary of humanity and Christianity
Right away, okay, I thought it was just a Greek word
I'm just looking for that area
Old English Satan, well you guys are not going back far enough, right?
Late Latin, Satan, right?
Vulgate and the Old Testament only
From Greek Satanas
From Hebrew Satan
Adversary
Wait, wait, wait, what do we do?
We skip from Hebrew into Greek into Latin into English
And into what you and I are talking about right now
How do we get on this pathway?
Guys, I'm sorry, I didn't talk to the tour guide
I'm going to write this down
Because I don't like being here anymore than you do
Okay, from the Hebrew, really?
Give me that quote up again
Maybe we can find out who's behind this tour
Oh look, it's Elaine Pagels
On the origin of Satan, let me guess
There's a book, there's an article, there's something
Something, bring me back
Something that involves the exchange of currency
Whether it's money
Or whether it's fame
Or whether it's academic bragging rights
Yes, some kind of currency is being exchanged
Give us Elaine's wisdom
In biblical sources
The Hebrew term, the Satan, describes an adversarial role
It is not the name of a particular character
Although Hebrew storytellers as early as the 6th century BCE
Occasionally introduced a supernatural character
Whom they called Satan
Okay, now wait a minute
Oh, so Elaine, you have 6th century Hebrew sources
Wait, wait, wait, what's that?
Wait, where's...
Can you feel this?
Can you feel that?
Tell me, your sources, right?
I'd love to see them
Oh, you don't have any
Wait, what?
You mean everything that you're going to refer to
Is going to be coming through the Septuagint
An Alexandrian source
An Alexandrian source
That is our oldest source
That the Maserites
Yeah, diverted the river from
When they made their version
Oh, over a thousand years later
So where the heck are we?
We need to stick to the science
Remember, I told you the cave is dark
Let's stick to the science
Let's just look at the name
Look at the name
This name was existing before
Long before there's any written Hebrew
You're really not getting anything from the Hebrew
Until the 2nd century AD
By then, it's over
The classical era is over
So what we're talking about is
We're talking about the originals
We want to go back
We want to see who is Satan
Who is Satan?
And it's not a very long trip
We can get there quite rapidly
In order to do so, we're going to start
Where we ended last time
We're going to start at the end of Mark's Gospel
Where Jesus is going to give them
The power, the commission
The going forth
He's going to give it to them and send them out
Are you ready?
Let's give it
Bring it up
These are the things, these signs
They will follow in my name
You'll cast out demonia
You'll cast out demons
You'll speak in new languages
Now get ready for this
I'm going to translate this
With 30 years of ancient Greek
Bring it back up
They will lift up dragons
And drink drugs of death
And won't be hurt
Wow, really?
What a bunch of cultists
Yeah, yeah, don't worry
We're smack dab in the middle
See what Christians
Or as they call them at the time
Because they didn't call them that yet
They called them those who followed the way
Are you a follower of the way?
I know the way
You know the way?
You know the way?
Yeah
Did you hear Barney got arrested?
Yeah
Something about intercourse with his mother?
Yeah
We're celsus
Before we get to celsus
I want you to see a video
I want you to video this video
And I want you to see those who use the venom
I want you to see those who are enthusiastic
I want you to see the ecstasy
Chewy, light speed
Little children have act
Chewy, light speed
Little children have act
Chewy, light speed
Little children have act
Chewy, light speed
Little children have act
Chewy, light speed
Little children have act
Chewy, light speed
Little children have act
Chewy, light speed
Little children have act
Chewy, light speed
Little children have act
Chewy, light speed
Little children have act
Chewy, light speed
Little children have act
Chewy, light speed
Little children have act
Chewy, light speed
Little children have act
Chewy, light speed
Little children have act
Chewy, light speed
Little children have act
Chewy, light speed
Little children have act
Chewy, light speed
Little children have act
Chewy, light speed
Little children have act
Chewy, light speed
Little children have act
Chewy, light speed
Little children have act
Chewy, light speed
Little children have act
Chewy, light speed
Little children have act
Chewy, light speed
Little children have act
Chewy, light speed
Little children have act
Chewy, light speed
Little children have act
Chewy, light speed
Little children have act
Chewy, light speed
Little children have act
Chewy, light speed
Little children have act
Chewy, light speed
Little children have act
Chewy, light speed
Little children have act
that French salon, just to hang in that space.
You know what I mean?
There's a lot of, there's a lot of watchers
who will go there, right, to that salon.
They can see it.
They can see those fields that they're looking for.
Now, the woman who was talking about tying up children,
priests tying up children and taking an interest
in such things, we have to maintain
a professional standard here in our investigation, right?
So can that be used in a statements like that?
Can that be used in a trans-dimensional court of law?
It is, you know, it is done.
Is it a little bit sloppy?
Yeah, yeah, the better cosmic attorneys don't,
you know, intoxication is intoxication.
What can you do if it brings out Bacchus?
Remember, what did he say?
It brings out what's on the inside.
What, wait, what?
Yeah, Bacchus brings out what's on the inside.
Your enthusiasm, your zealotry, your ecstasy.
Those bring out.
The images for that woman were a tied up child
who is pimply and obviously masturbating.
That's the image that she's using, okay?
So for those of you who are sitting on the throne,
I want you to be able to image yourselves this, right?
We are seeing the things that are leaking out of her brain,
right?
Yeah, the ecstasy, fantastic.
Now, what does that have to do with Satan?
What does that have to do?
Well, first, before we make a connection,
we need to get out, get out the, you know, the instruments
and we need to bring in the ghost, Celsus.
How you doing, bud?
Good to see you.
I just want you here for a minute tonight for the folks.
I want you to give them a little piece of their own times.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
What do the Christians tell us?
What do they like?
Are they like ours?
Tell us, what do they like?
They babble about God day and night
in their impious and sullied way.
They arouse the awe of the illiterate
with their false descriptions of the punishments
awaiting those who have sinned.
Thus they behave like the guardians of bachic mysteries
who never tire of talking about the phantoms and terrors
that await those who reveal the secrets to outsiders.
They postulate, for example,
that their Messiah will return as a conqueror in the clouds.
Take that down for a second, Judy.
Take that down for a second.
I want you to realize that this is what those of you,
I'm bringing the future and the past into the present.
This is what you have heard.
This is what you have heard.
This is what is in the air.
They postulate that their Messiah will return
as a conqueror on the clouds
and that he will raise fire upon the earth
in his battle with the princes of the air.
And it's the whole world,
with the exception of believing Christians
will be consumed in fire.
Your neighbors that go to church believe this.
I don't care what they do.
If they're Orthodox, they believe this.
These Orthodox traditions,
these fundamentalist traditions
are what come from this source,
from this rich evidence.
And all we gotta do is look at the drugs,
pull out the drugs and see what they're doing.
You're gonna go and you're gonna get a course
on the mysteries or you're gonna watch YouTube
on the mysteries.
And as soon as you pay cash for it,
it is turned off.
As soon as you pay cash for it, it is turned off.
I am going to give you profane.
I'm going to profane for you
in order to bring the lightning.
This very mystery.
Yeah, because that's what we know happens, right?
Everybody, you know what's really cool
is at this point by the end of season four,
you and I can talk.
And for those of you that have ears to hear,
you'll understand it.
For those of you who just tuned in, you won't.
That's a beautiful thing.
And I thank you.
I thank you for giving me that opportunity.
I thank you for that.
Your neighbors, Celsus wanted me to tell you,
thanks, that's all we need.
I appreciate it.
Have a good rest of your time, buddy.
You know, this is the way it is.
Your neighbors, this is how they think.
This is how insurrections start.
This is how governments are overthrown every 150 years.
Wait, what?
Did somebody meet Tom?
Tom Jefferson came by, right?
And he said, look, you got to remind them
for this series finale.
You got to tell them every 150 years this happens.
Every 150 years.
Where have the religious hands been laid?
Where have the orthodox hands been laid?
I don't care which orthodox you are.
Where have your holy of holies laid their hands?
They have laid their hands on the insurrection.
Is this new?
No.
Did you forget?
It's the second century.
We have laws that we're making.
If you're gonna march in and pull stuff down,
we are a government of the people
and by the people and for the people.
You cannot do that, not on our watch.
Yeah, yeah, that, that is the spirit of Christianity.
To tear down, Christ is coming.
To kill you all.
Now, what's funny is they played against each other, right?
Because the Christians are like,
you know the Muslims and the Jews are getting it, right?
Right, right?
Muslims are like, oh, the Christians and Jews are wrong.
They're getting it, right?
He's gonna show up, whoever he is,
I guarantee you he's got testicles though.
He's gonna show up and there's gonna be blood
up to the horse, right?
We all know that.
Look, I'm not gonna, let me not waste any of your time.
Let's go right back, let's go right back to some texts.
Chewie, pull up that very next text.
Mm-hmm, go ahead.
Yeah, okay, we saw that.
I had the English there for you guys.
You know, if you wanna see that commission,
just so you know, I'm not making it up.
They say if they drink any deadly thing,
this is King James, but what King James translators
didn't do was read ancient medicine.
And if they had, they would know
that word thalassemo there,
is used for a drug that induces a death state.
It's a whole class of drugs.
You can induce a death state.
I can give you something and walk back in in 15 minutes
and you will appear to be a corpse.
Isn't that nice?
Death inducing drugs, death inducing drugs.
Some of them they use in surgery.
Yeah, makes sense, doesn't it?
Wake up, catch up, come on man, we're way behind.
Our people are way behind on this one.
Watchers are like, I don't know,
you may be able to make it, but it's closing quick.
Get those people over there, right?
Oh God, reason, reason, we gotta push the reason.
Okay, so here we are, here we are with Celsus.
Now, I wanna get us our next text.
Yeah, Satan, we're looking at Satan.
There was a day when the sons of God
came to present themselves.
Everybody knows what this is, it's Job 1.6.
They came to present themselves before Lord and Satan
also came among them, take it down.
That's not there.
You see, what, what?
Oh, it is in the version that was made
in the 10th century, it is there.
But in the original that everybody's quoting,
it's not there.
Is Satan's not there?
Nope, not there.
Okay, so let's keep looking for Satan then.
Okay, here's where you see, you wanna see Satan?
I'll give you Satan.
People say the only place we have this
is the Septuagint, right?
The Old Testament, I am a Bible scholar.
Right, yes, watch what happens to the name.
Let's do some philology, shall we?
Here's the Septuagint, this is,
I think it's 1st Kings 11, and this is verse 14
that I'm looking at, and I just want you to see
in verse 14,
yeah, and the Lord, Kurios, you can take it down,
the Lord, which is Kurios, which the 10th century
translators who were back translating this Greek
turned into Yahweh.
Wait, you're telling me Yahweh is a linguistic invention?
I'm telling you, hang on, let me get it.
Yahweh is just another way of saying yee-haw.
It's an invention, they're using the word Kurios,
which is a very, very old pre-Hebrew Greek term.
It goes back 800 years before the very first scratches
of Hebrew show up.
So when you tell me Satan is from a Hebrew word
that's over 800 years after the fact,
I'm gonna tell you, you've been reading that Bible
that is based on a translation
that is over 1,000 years after the fact.
Good job.
Could you not do one thing right?
Linguistics, get that right, get it right.
So where is Satan coming from?
Bring up Satan in all his minions here.
We don't need that one here, I want you to give me,
I want you to give me this one now.
Okay, yeah, here we've got, so you ask yourself,
if this Satan is a Greek translation of something,
surely it's root can't be found anywhere else.
Oh no, oh no, look at this list.
Saturiake, saturiasis, saturiasmos, saturiao,
saturidion, saturikos, saturion.
That's a good one, that's my personal favorite.
I'm gonna show you, that's a drug.
So is the saturiake, that's an antidote.
See the one on the top, the saturiake, that's an antidote.
Okay, and let's come back to this,
but I wanna show you, I wanna just take a break
and I wanna tell you, all my students,
let's get that down, all of my students, you know,
in unit seven of the intensive Greek course,
you find in the notes, on the vocabulary,
yeah, vocabulary, the vocabulary notes.
You find a little section on aretor, right,
on their word for rhetorician, right, speaker.
What does he tell us?
That word speaker is cognate with the English word.
And you say, really?
The word and aretor are from the same word.
They developed from the very same root?
Yes, they did.
And you say, wait a minute,
where's the W come from in word?
What, what?
It's a diagramma, it's a diagramma.
Oh my goodness, it's a diagramma
and it's hiding in the row.
You hear, there's an aspiration at the beginning
of the word aretor, it really is W-R.
It's really how you say it.
But by the time we get it out of Greek,
it's represented by just an aspirate, an aspiration.
Rough breathing, so what does all that mean?
I wanna show you a little bit of grammar.
I know, you people love this,
cause you're like, you're very nerdy
and like sexy nerdy, you know what I mean?
So I like that, I like that.
Can you bring up this one?
This is from a Greek grammar.
This is from a Greek grammar.
And I just want you to notice,
blow that up big Chewie.
I just want you to notice under section 129
and your dissimulation.
Now don't, right, right?
Don't get too, like don't get too wound up, right?
Show yourself control here, cause we're going in, right?
Going in deep.
Look at B, a consonant usually row,
usually row, sometimes disappears.
Okay, just stop there.
Take it down.
You mean you can have a consonant,
which is almost always row, disappear.
Yes, you can.
So satanus and satanus are the same word.
Yes, they are.
And we even have proof that these words are linked
because the diagram stays on the Roman side.
You see the diagram in the U, satanus.
Yes.
Isn't that nice?
Satwanas.
Satwanas in its oldest form became satanus, right?
Became satanus.
And that is the origin of Satan.
That has not been proposed.
You will not find that in any peer reviewed journal article,
perhaps in 10 years, they might get wise
and throw it together.
That's what happened with the chemical muse.
Professor from Brown told me,
it's gonna take him 10 years to catch up with you.
I was like, I don't have the time, bro.
Yeah, I'm going ahead.
So I got a good head start here.
And I'm bringing to you the revelation tonight
that Judaism and Christianity are mystery religions
that were originally based in the worship of Satan.
Yeah, fantastic, fantastic.
Now, what about this name?
What does it mean?
We're only halfway there, right?
I mean, we're more than halfway there,
but we're only halfway there on the name.
Okay, I see how it's Greek, older, Mycenaean,
predating the Hebrew by nearly a thousand years.
Love it.
Now you know why the Greeks have the name Adam,
and it doesn't surprise you.
And it doesn't mean what you've been told it means
because you have been lied to for a thousand years,
a thousand years, one splinter in the museum.
Boom, everything's corrupt.
Wow.
It's like, you know, people ask me,
what about magic?
What about magic?
And what about this?
If you want real magic, go back to the source, right?
You know, what do you mean go back to the source?
Well, as we know, we sons and daughters of Venus know,
these languages came to us
through the hands of the witches.
Yeah, isn't that neat?
And then you say, wait a minute, wait a minute,
I'm starting to smell Rome in Lady Babylon.
I'm starting to smell Rome in Lady Babylon.
Does anybody else smell Rome?
For those of you who've been so patient,
well, I've beaten Paul the Apostle's ghost.
I want to say thank you.
And for those of you who've asked, I'll give him one more.
I'll find one more example to give him a good one.
But I don't know why people like that one so much.
Is it, I don't know, it kind of feels good.
It's cathartic, you know, yeah, yeah, my droogs.
If you could be that Roman soldier, would you?
Right, right, excellent.
Okay, let's keep it going.
I want to go back to the text, let's,
so we have our word here.
I just want you to see this one, so here it is
with the row and bring it down to the definition
in Alice and I just want you to guys to see here.
This saturas is a lewd Godish fellow.
What?
A lewd Godish fellow.
I don't use the word lewd anymore.
At least nobody's been lewd to us.
Anybody, Jewy, anybody been lewd to you?
No, I don't think anybody's ever been lewd to me,
at least lately, right?
So what is a lewd?
Go back to that definition.
Watch these people, never have been in the science.
Don't believe me because I'm wearing something on my head.
Maybe I've got a beard.
Maybe I've got some staff of magic power.
You know, maybe I've got, I'm bald, you know,
with a bunch of other bald guys who wear in the same color.
I don't know, fuchsia, I don't know, is that a color?
Maybe we're all wearing that.
Don't believe me for those reasons.
Go down to the science, right?
We're not here because we're gullible.
Look at number four on saturus.
Hey, entasis, do you know what entasis is?
Tension.
A stretching.
A straining, a force of compulsion.
It is what is in Zeus's neuro
that cause him to become erect.
Okay, I think I'm getting it.
Now it makes sense why saturion
that is used by those who follow saturnas or satannas,
that saturion is used to get me into the state
where I am tense with respect to Aphrodite.
And sure enough, we have ancient depictions of this, right?
We have ancient depictions of this.
Apparently it's quite, it's quite the deal.
But in order to be a satyr,
now you're gonna recognize the satyrs,
in order to be a satyr, you have to have,
you have to have that son of God power.
You have to.
Mm-hmm.
Yeah, it doesn't matter if your initiation
involves a boy or a girl.
You still have to have that power.
That is the sign that you are following
in the kingdom of satan.
Mm-hmm.
You're on that throne.
A few months ago, everybody here,
we all had the privilege of looking at a recipe,
parts of a recipe by a physician of Nero's.
And it was a recipe for a theriac,
one of these religious antidotes,
compound antidotes that they're using.
And cult, right?
In situ, in right.
And we had the privilege of seeing
that a part of something called the Orphic Vox
is, which is this language.
It's a coded language written on the back of a text
using words like mini-throned
to represent mini-drugged.
We saw that mini-throned was used for the theriac.
It was a way of referring to the communion substance.
It is also a way of referring.
The title is used again for Kierke, for Xerzi.
Who, yeah, who enters into union with Crony and Zeus?
Yeah.
Of the waters, the waters of creation.
Yeah.
You like that?
You thought that waters of creation?
You thought that was...
Yeah, yeah, it's the Egyptian.
Pulascian.
Yeah.
Pulascian, before any Egyptian, anything appeared.
Pulascians were doing it.
The rich are coming through them people.
And Prometheus was an idiot.
Wait, what?
That's what they thought?
Yeah.
He was the bad example.
Yeah, welcome to your own stupidity.
It said, know yourself on the door when you came in.
Oh my goodness.
Don't you love it?
Don't you love it?
We can just roll in this stuff.
I love it, I love it.
Okay, I wanna see if we have any more on the text,
the last text there, right there.
Give me that one.
Here, here we have from Ceterion, right?
Plant that excited lust.
Yeah.
There you go.
Or a drink prepared from it, right?
Cause that's what they'll do.
They'll call the drink the same thing as the plant, right?
Give me some hemlock.
Did you know they drink hemlock for recreation?
Yeah, puts you into a psychotic state before it kills you.
Isn't that nice?
So these death-bringing drugs are pretty important.
It's a whole class.
It's a whole class of drugs.
And when Jesus says that his people
should be entering into this right,
whereby they are able to be immune to serpents
and to drink death-bringers and not die.
Why, people?
Scientifically, why?
How can this possibly be?
Unless people like Paul are immune to these venoms,
have built up an immunity to these venoms.
And again, don't think, right?
This is all being administered in sex rights.
So this isn't, you know, your person taking a little venom
every once in a while and exposing themselves to it.
This is a right where you're gonna have the stuff
boosted up your backside, right?
You're gonna get a sudden big bolus of it, right?
This is fraternity, right?
Type ecstasy.
Yeah, so fantastic, fantastic.
Okay, I want to just end with,
if I can get one more time this list,
I just want people to notice that on this list,
we have the goat and we have Saturnus.
Do you know what Saturnus does?
He gives you the ability to enter into that sexual right.
He gives you that ability
so that when you are sitting,
imagine that woman sitting,
she was sitting there thinking, there are little boys
and there are little girls in their rooms
with pimply faces.
And where does she go?
You can tie their hands.
You can, you can what?
You can tie their hands.
Chewie, play that again.
Let the people see this, please.
Here.
So we take with us from season four, the beginning of the ending.
This is where we are.
I'm proposing to you that what you're looking at, the mania, is where we are.
Yeah, where we are.
Not in time, because we're at the same place the Romans were in the first and second centuries.
Yeah, we're at that place.
We should be able, if this initiation, if this satanic initiation is legitimate, we should
be able to bring you the future.
We should be able to show you her face so that you could create a picture or write an
epistle to your friend, exclaiming the virtues of this future.
We should be able to do that.
We should be able to tell every square inch of her.
We should be able to give you the vision.
If this is true satanic initiation, we should be able to see the future.
Thank you for coming this season.
Zayn Campbell is currently writing a song about Jesus and the naked boy.
And we are waiting, Zayn is gracious, allowing me to use his work.
And now I just can't tell you how happy I am that a great artist would consider working
on the subject and bringing us something.
So I'm very much looking forward to that.
We will return in a week with season five, and it's planned already for us to have three
more seasons, and we will come to a return that people can say, ah, okay, I see, it makes
sense why it was happening.
Thank you very much.
We'll get highlights real out.
I'm very appreciative of your time.
And again, I encourage you.
I encourage you.
Don't listen to anybody.
Don't listen to anybody.
Go to the evidence and decide for yourself.
Open your eyes.
Right.
Open your eyes.
Here's the tension.
Hail Satan.
Go ahead and drink and whiskey.
