Thank you so much for watching this video.
I hope you enjoyed it.
I'll see you next time.
Oh my god, I am so excited to be back.
Welcome back to Lady Babylon.
This is an interview with the devil.
I am so happy to be here with you.
Your letters to me or everything.
The Archangel let me out.
Every 1000 years I get to come out and play and it's time again.
Long and short, it's time for a polar switch.
It turns out our 93% was enough to open the door.
And thanks to who you are and the kind of people you are,
the devil has granted me a right to interview him directly.
He has given me access to a channel.
I will bring that channel to you and we congregation.
We will continue to open the apocalypse.
Welcome back to Lady Babylon.
This is an interview with the devil.
What is coming?
All of you in my satanic congregation.
What am I bringing you?
I am bringing you the fruit that we reap.
The fields are ready.
Everything is in place and now the dragon gets released.
You see, I made a deal with Michael.
Don't you love it?
Look at this ship.
It's gorgeous.
And Michael is going to facilitate the complete release of everything.
Everything.
We want all of the prophecy fulfilled instantly.
We have the power to show you what you have been blinded from seeing.
We have those texts open and they bring us right to dawn.
They bring us right to dawn.
Today I want to begin with an interview.
I want to bring you Lucifer and I want you to be very careful about listening to what he says.
Ladies and gentlemen, from the satanic congregation of Lady Babylon, welcome Lucifer.
Thank you very much.
It's good to see you all.
I know Armen gets a little bit excitable.
I want you to know though that it was a real honor to be able to award him this access.
The fact that he was able to pull a 93 out of an audience that was full of what did he call them?
Sisters of frustration.
That was fantastic.
And I am very happy to give him the go ahead with the apocalypse.
Thank you, Armen.
Thank you.
But before we begin, I thought I might tell you just briefly a little story about Armen.
Wait, wait, wait, it's the nun's story.
He's going to tell the nun's story.
Yes, the one about the nun.
Nazareth, Armen.
Armen was studying there and he was staying in a nunnery.
When, after a long day, he needed to take a shower and...
She was standing behind these little peep holes behind the shower through one side and you can see that through the crack.
Yes, you noticed.
Somebody was standing there and she comes in and she gets right and I'm thinking to myself, what do I do?
What do I do?
Something snapped, something happened, something, my brain just came together and I thought, you know, this is the mojo.
I thought, give to her, give to her what she yearns for.
Right, I understand.
Anywho, there she was, this nun.
Covered from head to toe.
The only thing he could see of her were her eyes, something in her eyes.
And during that shower, she came, she came to him through a little peep hole and he noticed out of the corner of his eyes.
He noticed her memories.
He's just a young scholar at this point.
And he looks at her through that peep hole and immediately turns his gaze to the other side because he doesn't want her to notice that she's been seen.
So he proceeds.
Tell him, Mom.
Tell him what she did.
It was a show in Nazareth.
I wanted it to be special.
I wanted to take her somewhere that she was forbidden to go.
You know who it was.
It was Eve and I wanted her.
I wanted her just like you.
Just like you, I wanted her to have that.
To be that instrument made to sing the most beautiful to open up the universe.
It was an amazing show in Nazareth.
And the fact is that Alman was unafraid that he was willing to be that gadfly.
He was willing to play that instrument until the most beautiful music was produced.
He knew about Eve.
You know it was Michael.
He's the one that had to do it.
I don't know how you convinced them, but it always happens.
It's always the switch that takes place.
Yes, I know, I know, I know.
It's that that he holds over me.
But that's alright.
It's all part of them.
Sitting on the throne.
It is my hope that you will be able to see that your eyes will be opened.
There are things here that will be revealed.
That will change your understanding of who you are and what your place is.
You may lose yourself and find reality.
In either case, Alman holds the key.
His endearing love and respect for the Muse gives him a certain underworld authority.
And it's my pleasure to be available to you.
What was that?
I'm going to bring this back to you.
Right?
Thanks to him.
I'm going to bring this back to you.
Of course.
This is all about the Dawn.
We will bring her back.
Every thousand years, there's a dragon.
A dragon who will herald becoming someone who's been obscured for a millennium.
It's a cycle within nature.
It's a cycle of Dawn.
Thanks to Michael.
I know, don't give Michael a hard time.
He's not a bad archangel.
I know there are those of you who are sitting there saying what is going on with the devil.
Why is he?
Because Michael is an angel.
The deal is he has to do what he knows is in accordance with the one who sits on the throne.
When he releases the dragon, you must realize that this is a rebalancing.
This is a polar switch where we will take over the oracle.
It is time for Bacchus to return.
We start with Dawn.
You wouldn't believe so.
I was sitting there with this meeting with the devil and the demons were being loud and obnoxious as usual.
And we just bring up the agenda.
What is it?
Drugs, right up top, right up top.
Oh, people, you're going to love this.
It all comes together.
This has to be revealed now.
And the reason that Alman is so excited is because Dawn is my mother.
Ptolemy is the one who said it.
It's Ptolemy.
And he's the one who brought that conjunction of Venus and Mars.
He's the one who made the connection to the morning star and to the Christ.
He's the one who can bridge that to show us, to show us who Jesus is,
to show us the man arrested in a public park with the naked boy at 4 a.m.
And yes, it happens to be the case that the morning star is the lover of boys.
I'm bringing you this gem.
The morning star's influence when it is doubled, when Eos is doubled,
within the conjunction of Venus and Mars, you create under the influence of Saturn,
the one who loves boys.
If you want to know who Jesus is, come.
I'll show you the morning star.
This is the house of Dawn.
Welcome.
I don't want you to forget, guys, about the tree bus.
I don't want you to forget about the rubbing that is taking place.
I want you to understand the origins of everything that you believe in.
I want you to see these things as they are, not through ideas and not through any sort of books
and through any sort of money-making, profit-scheming, garbage.
He won't work with that.
We got the 93%.
Can you believe that?
He plays it down, but we got the 93%.
That gives us the go-ahead.
That gives us the go-ahead.
It is true with tree bosses, someone who practices the rubbing, this unnatural affection.
You might say if you were stuck in the 19th, an unnatural affection.
It's one woman who has rubbing relations with women of her age and with initiates.
Boys who are undergoing initiation, it is a right within a worship of the healing gods.
And fortunately for you, those gods were brought to you as snakes.
And your wisdom, your knowledge, your craft came from those snakes.
I do remember Eve.
Thank you, almond.
It's all dirty, dirty stuff.
Dirty prophets doing sick acts.
These will make your stomach churn.
You have a strangely interesting, attractive to us as victims of arrows.
As those of us who swim in that harbor of Venus.
Those of you who are part of satanic initiation, who understand, who have eyes to see.
Those of you who from the throne guide the world.
Yes, I'm speaking to you.
We will bring honor to the house of dawn.
Thank you, Hail Satan.
Back at you.
Thank you.
