You gave me hope when it seemed hopeless You put a song in my heart
Showed me a road not often taken You gave me a start all the way
Why did you ever change your name All the way
Why did you ever change your name Because you were like a wave on the ocean
Wild and free you came And you were like a storm
Coming out of mountains, never to be tamed All the way
Why did you ever change your name All the way
Why did you ever change your name
All the way
Why did you ever change your name All the way
Why did you ever change your name All the way
Why did you ever change your name All the way
How's that? Tell them who fixed it. Okay, people, for once it was me, I fixed it.
It was just cables. Fantastic. What are we going to do tonight? We've got to clean up the place. We've got to clean it out.
And in order to do that, we're going to have to find some kind of sulfur to burn to get this place all de-ghosted.
Tonight, I want to bring you scootha. And when I say scootha, I'm introducing you to a cold word from antiquity.
It's the name of Queen, Queen of Caucus. It's also the name of the state in which you enter when you're doing the Scythian.
Love it. So tonight, we're going to do it through Alex. Thanks to Chewie for bringing along Alex.
Thank you.
Oh, fantastic. Okay, so I'll re-explain what I was saying.
But no noise was coming out of my face at the beginning.
So what we're looking at tonight is I have to take you to one of those dark places. We're going to go back and we're going to look at what Jesus is doing with his young apostles who are teenage boys,
and 18-ish, 19-ish in that range. We're going to look at what they're doing specifically with them and how he is bringing about that grooming process.
And I want to go. I want to start out with you at a place right away. You know, let's get off the ship because right away we're in a place where there's a cult movement going on around us.
I'm going to take you back. You're going to love this. This is why you dirty, dirty people always come back because you love these sources. You love it.
It's like drinking that pure water from that fountain way up in the, from the hippocrine. Let's get it. Oh, let's get it.
Bring that first source up for me. Who am I bringing to you? I'm bringing to you a priest. I'm bringing to you some necander.
And he says, look, people, look, I don't want you to drink this drink. And why is that? The stuff is lethal. The stuff is lethal, right?
He says it works like those, you know, the crazy people, crazy people when they're babbling, they're obviously out of their minds because they've been drinking it.
And what happens to them? They're struck. These Bacchus. Oh, wait, what? We're talking about a cult that is Bacchic. These Bacchus are struck.
They're struck and they, they, they do what? They shout. They're going around. It's crazy. They shout in unison.
These crazy, fearful shouts and these songs. And what do they, what do they do it under the influence of?
Look at that last word in the third line, oyster, right? They do it on the influence of that oyster that cannot be managed, that fury, that mania.
If you look at Labrazzo there, same thing. You're instituting a state of mania in someone. And that is what the mysteries are doing.
These are the Bacchic women. I want you to, I want to point it out to you. This is an ancient priest, Hellenistic priest named Nicander.
And he is talking about the Bacchic choruses, what they do. Okay. They enter into states of mania via drugs.
Now this may have been, this may have been something that the philologists, classical philologists stood around and had to catch themselves because they don't believe in drugs.
They don't believe that we should talk about the founders of democracy using drugs. We shouldn't. We shouldn't unless they did, in which case we have to talk about it.
That's what I'm bringing you. Let's get the next source. There we are with these Bacchians. Here's another source of Bacchians.
And in, what's that? In his name, in whose name? In my name, excuse me. In my name they will cast out demons.
This is Bacchus talking, right? In my name they'll cast out demons and they'll speak in new, unheard to fore unknown languages.
And what else are they going to be doing? They're going to be raising up handling serpents. Seriously, these guys, you know, these Bacchians are nuts, man.
Have you seen the ancient Greco-Roman portrayals of them? They're running up and down hills with snakes. They got snakes around their waist.
They got, and I'm not talking just old, any snake. I'm talking poisonous, poisonous, venomous, vipers. What are they doing? They got a basket full of them.
Why do you have to, ladies, if you're going on a picnic for the weekend, I understand the different supplies that you're going to take.
I don't get the basket full of snakes unless you're using that venom. I don't get it. Does this all make sense?
Of course, the systemistica that sacred ark has within it, that source of the venom that you need to get high so that you can do things like these people are doing.
What else do these people do? They're going to come up with these new languages. They're going to be handling the snakes.
This is a nice conditional here. If somebody, you know, drinking the Thanasimon, you're drinking that death dealing brew. You're getting into that death.
What do these cultists do? They bring the death. Second death, bro. Can you smell the sulfur? It's from that pit. It's where that second death is.
Oh, yeah. Get in the throne. I'm going to show you something. Get in the throne.
Okay, let's go back to that one one more time. I just want to finish it off. So if they drink, you know, when they go into these rites and they're entering into the death state, nothing's going to hurt them.
Right. It's not going to hurt them. And he even uses an expression here that's an affirmative. It's an effective affirmative where it's emphasizing no way.
No way will anything injure them, right? And what do these freaks do? What do these death cult freaks do?
They remember. Okay, wait, hang on. Don't remember yet. Remember in a minute, what do they do? They put their hands, they put their hands on these uninspired, they get feely, touchy feely putting their hands on the uninspired.
And when they do, they enter into a state that is beautiful. They enter into a state that is beautiful.
Now, whose words were those that I just quoted? That's Jesus from the gospel of Mark. That's Jesus from the gospel of Mark.
Kiddies, right? We're here learning about Jesus.
Amen. Do you mean that Jesus was involved in a drug using mystery cult? Yes, kiddies. Yes, right. Remember, by the time kids remember by the time Jesus was here, talk, talk, talking, saying Christ, Christ, Christing.
And remember, when he said he was Christ, he said, don't tell anyone, don't tell anyone certain things that your teenage apostles can't talk about.
By the time he did his thing, it had already been 1000 years before the first human being was Christ, the founder of the mystery, the media.
Yeah, scootha. I told you about scootha before when no voice was coming. Yes, scootha, that queen.
That queen, what does it mean? It's a state of intoxication. Do you hear that? Right out of the great mouth from antiquity. Scootha being in that state.
Queen state. That's the queen state. That's what we call our queen of caucus. We call her scootha. Scootha. Love it. Love it.
Sorry, let's go. I went to somewhere. Did you see that show? I was temporarily out there for a minute. Let's go. I want to bring you to some prophecy.
I'm going to take you to the Horos. Give me the next one, or for those of you who have eyes to see the Orvos. Yes, and there's a six in there, right in the middle, right in the middle, standing on that bridge.
What is this I'm showing you? This is a boundary stone. This is the place that you find your limit.
Uh-huh. Uh-huh. That was Jesus. That was Jesus. People talking about drinking the death formula involved in the resurrection rites. That was Jesus calling himself Christ and saying, don't tell people.
Those were his words. You thought it was Bacchus, didn't you? It was. That's the point. Yeah. It's one right, people. Fantastic. Illuminati.
You want some Illuminati? My people know. I bring it. I bring them the illumination. Let's go. You're going to love this. Look at this dirty stuff. The prophecy of Virgoia.
You say, that's not dirty. Amen. That's not dirty. No, it's not. Virgoia. Virgoia was a prophetess, a civil, a civil to the Etruscans. And she set up all of the religion of the people who ultimately handed down through Nigeria a prophetess.
The religious law. Yeah. What works? What works and what doesn't? And Virgoia comes up and she says, this is a prophecy from Vatican Hill, baby. You know, it's right there with the worship of those divinities, those early seven hill divinities.
Are we bringing it back? You know what we're going to do tonight? We're going to bring the beast back. Love it. This is Virgoia's prophecy. Are you ready for this? Yeah. Okay. So this is the voya. This is Virgoia's prophecy. And by the way, the Etruscan called her Virgoia.
It just went back and forth like that. Anyway, she says, no, no, this, you know, the air and the water were separated. Does this sound like Genesis? Genesis is a third century rip off of this. It's a third century rip off of this.
Wait, what? I thought it happened that Moses was 12 months. No. No. That's the funny thing. It all starts in the third century.
Libraries, people. It's all about libraries. Go back to your library and check out your library. What happens here? Blow this up to you in my eyes. You're getting so bad. Yeah.
So when Jupiter did this, you know, he took for himself the land of Etruria, where the Etruscans are. Isn't that nice? That's what Virgoia says. And he set up and ordered there to be established these, you know, these markers, these signs, these borders, limits.
Why did he do this? Because he knew, I'm just translating it to you, because he knew the greediness of people. He knew their desire to take somebody's land. Yeah. Yeah.
And what happened then? Well, you know, we find ourselves as Virgoia in the eighth cyclum. We're with the eighth man. Does anybody remember who the eighth man is? This is where my esoteric lovers are going to be digging tonight, right?
The odd-doer. Where's that eighth thing? Where's that eighth person? The one who was, but is not now and will come back. When that one comes back. Oh, God. He brings Lady Babylon. He brings Lady Babylon.
We're in the eighth cyclum, says Virgoia. Bring us back up, Virgoia. Where'd she go? My beautiful prophetess. Blow that up, Julie. Thank you very much. And so what happens? What do we need here? People are going to move them, she says. People are going to move them and they're going to take possession of stuff, right?
And why? Because that's the way it is. And what's going to happen? Virgoia says some things are going to happen. Your weather stuff is going to start to get bad and you're going to start to get funny diseases.
Okay. Thanks. Thanks. Yeah. Yeah. And here's another one. The people, they're going to start acting a little bit crazy. They're going to start acting funny. And there's going to be serious fighting between them.
It's as if civil society is going to break down itself. This is what happens when you don't respect that limit all of us under the power of nemesis, right? Underneath that power of justice, all of us.
Whether or not, I'm not talking in courts either, talking about nature, talking about being, talking about nemesis. Love it. Bring me back. Let's go on from Virgoia.
I want to bring up. So where do we go from this prophetess? What happened? Yeah, when he opened up the seal, the seventh, what happened? There came, there was a silence.
Got sucked into the universe. Wait, where am I? Remember, we're with the visionary cults, right? So don't, don't be shocked at the big back and forth.
This is what happens with the Pnellma, right? Didn't you see what Dumas said, right? Dumas, apostrophe after the S, right? We know.
Dumas, didn't you see what he said? It's that throne, baby. We take ourselves to that throne. Where are we here? What happened? There was the silence, right?
And I saw, what did I see? The seven angels. Oh God, which ones, baby? The ones that are right before God, who work right there with God. And what happens? What happens? They've got seven salpenges.
What? They've got seven salpenges? That sounds gross, bro. Is that, can you get rid of that with some antibiotic?
Look at this, salpings. What is a salpings? It's a war trumpet, baby. And look at the second line. You see where it says Tursenike? That's the Tursenike salpings.
This stuff goes back to the Etruscans, right? This is that instrument. Love it. They've got seven of them. Get me the next one. I was just having a vision, dude. I was seeing.
I was seeing stuff. And then what happens? We're down to verse three. And another angel came and he stood there on the Thusias daily, on that place where the voice of God comes from.
And what does he have? What does he have? Look at the next line, people. He has libanoton hrusun. Do you know what that is?
It's literally gold incense. It's gold incense. Oh my God. This is beautiful. And what's going to happen? It was given to him. Thumiamata. He was blessed with Thumiamata.
What are those things, people? Drugs. You know what this angel is carrying? This angel from the Apocalypse is carrying? He's carrying a fistful of drugs that will make you high.
And why? Why is he carrying these things? So he can give, right? So he can provide for the prayers of all of those holy. Yeah. So he can bring their power.
Because what do we do, people? Right? We're talking about an angel. Let's take it down for a minute. We're talking to think anthropology, right? He's got his hand full of that.
And I'm going to show you the drug in a minute. He is fumigating. He throws it down. He's fumigating. He's doing exactly what we do in the mystery cults.
You mean the book of the Apocalypse is based upon the activities of mystery cult? Yes. Yes, it is. And here's the angel getting us all high. Right in the opening. Let's go back there to that one.
Yep. Yep. Yep. Oh, God. And what is he doing? The smoke. Look at, look at verse four. Look at verse four. I think it's chapter eight, Apocalypse eight. And what is he did? What is kind on a behokapna? The smoke from all the Thumiyama, right? All of that incense.
What is a Thumiyama? It's the place that you burn that stuff, right? Okay. And what happens? That smoke is coming up, right? And that is those prayers. This is how we enter into it, people. This is us.
We're sitting there and our prayers as we're inhaling this psychotropic smoke are rising through the dimensions to the third and fourth, fifth heaven and beyond. This is us. You thought you knew what Christianity is, didn't you? No, you didn't. Right? And what happens? Look at, look at what happens with the drugs.
Okay. Elephant. Look at verse five. Okay. Elephant. The angel, the messenger. What did he do? He grabbed Mr. Stone Guy. He grabbed that libanoton. He grabbed that powdered frankincense combo. Yeah. Yeah. And he took off, combined a little bit of what was from the fire from over the Susia Stadium.
And he threw it on the ground. And what happened? What happens when he's doing this, kids? As we're watching this, what's happening? He's producing something. What is he producing? Chewie, bring it back. Same one. What is he producing?
He's producing. He's producing. He's producing the thunder and the lightning and the voices. Do you hear the voices? Do you hear the voices? Do you feel the earthquake? Do you feel the earthquake? Oh, take it down. Do you feel the earthquake? You will. You will.
When that servant of God, when that angel, how many among you, let me ask him this to be quiet for a minute, watchers. How many of you would use this capacity if you had it? How many of the sons of angels still inhabit this realm? Yes. Yes.
It's gorgeous, isn't it? It's amazing. When you consider Jesus with his naked boy, it's not, you know, hugely out of place. We'll get there, though. We're coming to Jesus as a naked kid. Keep going. Keep going. Next, next source. Yeah. I just want to show you people. This is the Lebanonos, the frankincense, right? Right? This is Lebanonos. Yeah, that's nice. But look at this. This is also frankincense.
Uh-huh. Uh-huh. Uh-huh. And boom. Sacrifice. Oh, I thought I had the wrong image of it. It's okay. I was going to show you those thumiama. It comes from the Greek conception of what you do when you perform a sacrifice. You are completely consuming in fire these incense bits.
And one of the things that I wanted to show you with the... I'm going to show you in a second, but I'm going to show you with the frankincense that they're able to refine it down to a form that it most suits fumigations. And they call it manna. They call it manna. I thought manna. Hang on. Where's our Bible score? Come here. Come here. Come here. Yes, both of you. Both of you. I don't care.
None priest doesn't matter. Bible score, I don't care. Come here for a minute. Come here. Yep. You know the drill. It doesn't come from Hebrew. Do you mean the word manna? It doesn't come from Hebrew? No. No. As a matter of fact, it doesn't. It comes from a much, much older Greek tradition.
Of processing frankincense that you've imported from Arabia. Yeah. This is civilization, people. We are not backwoods anymore. Right? This is civilization. This is what we're fighting to maintain. Right? Manna. Do you mean manna is Greek and not Hebrew? Correct. Correct.
Next thing you're going to tell me again is Greek as well. Just hold on. Just hold on. Let's go back to the cult and get in with these party people. Give me this one. Where are we? Blow this up, people. I want you to see this.
Oh, God, you know what this is? This is a chorus. Giving you a shout out from a Bacchic groove. We've got a Bacchic song going. These people are stoned out of their minds. And what do they say? It's sweet. It's sweet to be in those forests. One of those mountains. Whenever you're doing your run around in your theosis. Right?
Now, these are women. These are women who are going to be saying this. These are mean ads. Do you women out there who think you're into extreme? Thank again. Thank again. Let me show you these women. If we could model these women, I would give my right something to bring these women back, to bring this chorus back.
So they say it's sweet to be in the forest. Whenever you've been running around that theosis, that dance, you fall to your feet. Boom, that thing is finished. You fall to your feet there. You're sitting there wearing your little fawn skin, your holy fawn skin.
Right? And what are you doing? You're sitting there hungry for the, for the what? For the goat blood death. The goat blood death. The sacrifice death. The tragedy. You knucklehead. We don't sacrifice goats. We sacrifice people.
That's the tragedy. That's the tragedy. Yeah. Okay. You're sitting around with that hunger. Bring me back. Bring me back. You've got that homophagy going. Do you know when you enter into these states and the mania is they describe
refer to increased ex-sexual ecstasy. Right? Accompanied by severe phobic psychosis. You get quite a creature when you bring that out. You know what I mean? Okay. And what happens here? Let's look at back of the text. So we're sitting around. Look, can you see them? They're all sitting. They're all hungry for the homophagy. It's their grace.
What does this sign say from your enemies? It says it's their heart and the right to eat the flesh, drink the blood is their grace. Does anybody smell those Christians? Not modern Christians. I'm talking ancient Christians because in Jesus and his boys,
because modern Christians are a shadow of an emptiness that is modern Christianity. It is an emptiness. It's a void. You people, can I just say, well, give me one moment, and this brings my goat that I have to, that I have to make such an announcement. It really gets my goat. Do you see those are the, that was the key word, right?
That was the key word, right? Chewie? Guess my goat. Right? Guess my exactly. Guess my goat. Yeah. Christianity. Just quick announcement. You are nothing today of what you were. Judaism. You are nothing today of what you were. Yeah. Yeah.
Isn't that amazing? The religions that we see practice today are not what their founders created. Isn't that amazing? Now we're going to look at one aspect of that. What are these people doing? They're touching me. They're touching me. Jesus wants to touch you too. Jesus wants to touch you too, especially if you're a little kid.
Jesus loves touching little kids and he's always yelling about not being scandalized. Let's go. Let's finish the Bacchus. Where are we at the Bacchus? Before we get to Jesus and the boys. Where are we at with the Bacchus? Here. Blow this up. Yeah. Look what's going to happen, people. You want more Christianity and Judaism? Do you want it? The land flows with milk and honey and wine.
You know the Greeks wouldn't leave that one. Milk and honey and wine. It's in all the sacrifices. You know that. Why do you think Moses is written as a character in the third century? Why do you think he's so big on the milk and honey? Because he's part of the right. That's what they're trying to put into a text. Wow. It's amazing. Watch what happens here.
We've got some Syrian, see the Libanu. We've got the Frankincense there, right? And the Bacchus. The Bacchus, right? It's like saying the Christ. What is he doing? He's holding up that torch. He's holding up that flocks. That flocks. It's distributed through his narthex.
Wait. I hear Prometheus in there. You mean Prometheus was part of a visionary cult? What did you think? By the way, the ooze from his liver will get you so high. Yeah. Yeah. Did you know that? Why do you think that bird was eating it? That stuff fell on the ground and out of it came that plant that makes all of our pain go away.
Helen was picking that stuff. Yeah. Okay, people. Do you see your real history? Do you see your actual history? It's just bringing you these documents back. Let's keep going, man. It gets worse. It gets worse. Let's keep going. I'm going to take my time tonight. Yeah, just let's finish off. What else are we doing running around? Right? We're creating these vocalizations.
These vocalizations that exhibit this furied frenzy. And what are we saying? Go, Balkans! Go! These are the women. These are the women screaming this, right? Isn't that gorgeous? Isn't that gorgeous? Let's just go. Oh, sorry. Do you want to show something? Show what you're going to show. It's okay. You're involved, too, here.
Show what you want to show. I was talking about Balkans and we're in our rave. And here's a nice picture of a Balkan, right? A Minad. Isn't that nice? Oh, that's a nice Minad. So imagine her all red go with her serpents and with her staff. It has a head like a pine cone that sharpens so that you can smash somebody's noggin' with it.
Ride her weapons of war. And if they kill you, it's okay. It's okay if they kill you. I don't know. Maybe it's good to get eaten by a bunch of Minads. I don't know. I could think of worse. Okay. Let's go. Look, I want to take you. Take it off. I want to take you somewhere where you're not going to be able to go.
No Bible scholar here is going to know this stuff. They don't read these texts. They don't have any interest in them. So good. More for us. Let's go. Bring it up. Who is this? Who is this? Oh, this is Diascordes. He's like the master of pharmacology, antiquity, right? And what does he say? Oh, my God, this stuff, it grows in Arabia and the place where they actually produce it, right? The place is known because they actually produce it there. It grows it.
And oh, the fine stuff of this is it's nonparticulate, right? Refined white powder, right? When you add that to the fire, boom! Right? The whole thing burns up. Anyway, he's just describing it. And he goes on to describe it there to the bottom. I just wanted you to see that these are drugs that the people are working with openly. We don't have any problem.
Tuss, our word tuss, comes from the Greek thuos, right? That's that burning, right? When you say that there's frankincense that was given by the Magi to Jesus, when you say that, you don't know what you're talking about if you've never seen how frankincense was used in the ancient world.
And Jesus doesn't use just the garbage stuff. Those angels, they got access to the gold, to the gold. Love it. That's the good stuff, right? Now you know why that fleece was golden. Oh, no, you're kidding. No, I'm not. No, I'm not. Let's go to the next one. Look at this word, people thuos. Here's your Greek. This is a burnt sacrifice, right?
Notice under number two, it equals thumiamata, right? And you see Hippocrates and Galen there as sources. Those are my, those are my peeps, right? Nobody's, nobody reads, nobody reads either of those authors who does classical fall of you.
I can only think of a handful in Europe and, and in America. Yeah, I can only think of a handful who actively use those sources. Nobody does. Nobody does. People. I just found today Galen's on semen. I'll get, I'll get it to you in a minute.
Brilliant. It's in two books. It's in two, but male semen and female semen. And it has all the secrets over 100 pages, all the secrets, the secrets to eliciting the seed of the woman.
I'll say that one more time. All the secrets to eliciting the seed of a woman.
Okay. Do you know why classicists are so ridiculous and awkward? It's because they don't read the stuff. They need to read the stuff. It would have taught them. The ones that read Ovid, usually they're okay.
Okay, let's go to the, this is the next one. No, this is the next one. Sorry. Yeah, thumiamata. What is that incense? I just want you to see, but I want you to notice at the bottom, fumigations.
And he gives us philuminous, another source that nobody reads. I guarantee you, your pastor didn't know that is philuminous. Are you kidding me?
Look, I'm fumigations people. I told you they are fumigating. Whoops. They are fumigating. Don't let me fly to you. They're fumigating themselves.
And when I say fumigating, I mean hot boxing, right? Doesn't matter if you're in a small container, like a little storage jar. I've seen him do that and you stretch a fabric over the top and you sit there and burn your, burn your thumiamata right there.
And whoo, right? You enter those zones. You've never been fumigated, right? It's medicine, haven't you? Oh God, you need to take a bath, say the Scythians. You need to take a bath at least twice a day.
Wait, seriously? They took that many baths? What a waste of water. No, no, no. They didn't use water. They used cannabis. They fumigated cannabis in order to bathe.
You see what it does? It bathes you physically of impurities and it bathes you within your soul. Isn't that nice? It's kind of a natural thing. Nice.
But we also, you know, we can also sit there with the devil. So let's go back to the devil. Why doesn't nobody like it? Here we go. Here's a little bit more. I just wanted to show you the Christing people. This is that same author, Diascordes.
It's the same author. And if you look here, I just want you to see Katahri Almenos, the third line down kind of right in the middle. Everybody in Greek will see that. Guess what? He's using the frankincense within this Christing.
What do you do when you Christ something? It's a, it's a pharmacological term. That's all people, right? It's all, it's all it is. Right? We saw that last couple episodes. I showed you the terminology. I showed you. Brilliant.
Okay. Here it is again. What are we doing here? Oh, it helps with penomenos. If you drink it, it can kill you. You know what I mean? But look at the second, let's see, third line from the bottom, starting on the right side.
Okay. So I cut off the side there, but what it says is this stuff can induce mania. And especially when you drink too much of it, you know, in the process of initiating health in the process of bringing health, you can cause death by using too much of this stuff.
Well, first mania, you know what I mean? First mania. And, you know, too much like some people, he says they put it in their wine. When you put too much in your wine, it can kill you. It can kill you. So he's warning. You have to be careful. He's a physician slash pharmacologist slash pharmacist, right? He's a slash historian of medicine slash preserver of a pharmacopeia.
So, you know, he's like a, it's like an ancient Renaissance guy. Yeah. Can that happen? Can you have somebody come back in the past? No, you can't do that. Give me the next one, please.
Look, mania a day. So I just want you to see it's like madness. But I also want you to see at the bottom, they use it with I'm causing madness and they specifically give us this section of diascortes. But I also want you to notice it's a ball with pan and known us. So known us is the one who has all of the cult terminology under his belt.
If you really want to know ancient cult, you know known us. And people don't people don't like to don't really understand how helpful known us can be. Known us explains John's gospel in terms of bucket cult.
Do you know Jesus was the one ox? No, you didn't.
Look, you're Christian sitting here today. Did you know Jesus was the one ox? Wait, that's an old Mycenaean term, right? Deal with it. Yeah. So is the Christ. You think they made up Christ? You think Jesus was walking around? He was like, Oh, I'm the hmm, let's see.
Let's see the how the who would you the Masipu of the brick knock. Now, Christ, Christ. Yes, I'll be the Christ. Do you really think that that's what happened? He stepped out. There was a halo around his head and golden light and he was like, Oh, Christ.
There he is. Right. That's what you thought. I know it is because here's the visual evidence of your stupid thoughts that are inaccurate.
No, dude, he used a title that had been there for 1000 years. Yeah, you mean Jesus wasn't the first Christ? Wait, did you know his apostles are all teenage boys?
Let's get to it. We got more. We got more tonight. I'm having fun. Thank you, people. It's the final season. I'm just going to relax and have fun. I just want to see this kind of Christos thing.
For those of you who think the last five minutes was, you know, I can hear your comments. Those of you who are like this, I can hear your comments. I'm going to talk into the congregation. I'm talking to the visitors.
Those who are among us, right? Who've come here just to disrupts, right? I know that you think the last five minutes of what I said about the Christ and the drugs that it's not related.
Bam! Right in your face. Can you feel that? Oh, yeah. I can put it right there. I'm going to put it right in your mouth. Are you ready here to say it with me, people?
Cata Christos. Cata Christos. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, you seminary. Don't leave. Don't leave the room. Don't leave the room. Don't you ever do that unless I throw you out of my class, which I have.
For use is ointments and they give you the Trojiscoi. I told you about those Trojiscoi, didn't I? Right? That's what we have in the apocalypse. What is a trochis?
It's a little pill that you dissolve in water and it's got all sorts of good, good, good things in it, kiddies. It's got all sorts of good, good things. And you can either drink it or you can take it and squirt it up somewhere that your body will absorb it.
And yeah. And what happens with these drugs? You're going to have vision. You're going to have vision. It's going to take your brain and turn it on its end. But don't worry. It's also going to help you to grow.
And if you do this the right way, it'll cure cancer. Yeah. Yeah. 60% of us could use that. Yeah. If you do it the right way.
It's a promise from the ancient world. A prophecy. Yeah. Love it. Bring it back. Bring it back. Boom. Let's go to this text. This is from, oh, we got pornea right at the time. This is from the apocalypse. And I'm just going to translate it quick.
I'm just going to translate it quick and on the forehead of this gorgeous, not okay. This is my translation so you guys can all, you know, buy a seat.
Look, what's on her gorgeous, gorgeous face right in the middle of her forehead. It says mystery. Who are we talking about? We're talking Babylon the great man. This is the mother.
This is the mother of those priestesses who give us that life. She's the one who has these, oh, I can't even say it, these corruptions, these abominations of the earth.
What are these abominations? Do you feel, do you feel me with the Christian sect taking over and I saw the woman? I saw her. What was she doing? She was drunk. I see you ladies. I see you.
You're drunk from the blood of the Holy and the blood of the witnesses of Jesus. Drink the blood. I'm offering you bucket women. I'm offering you to drink the blood of the witnesses of Jesus.
So, you know, seeing all this stuff, I was sitting there and shocked out of my britches and this angel says to me, he says, don't be so scared. He says, I'm going to tell you the mystery of this woman and the beast, the beast who bears her up, the one that has seven heads and ten horns.
This beast, which you see, he was, but he is not now and he will be. Some day he's going to come back from the abyss. He's going to come back from the pit to bring destruction.
And what's going to happen? The people on the earth are going to be amazed. They're going to be amazed, right? Right? Oh my God. I saw the beast who was and is not, but will be.
Oh, is this the beast? It is. Do you know what the beast brings us? Do you know what the Therion brings us? Right? And I'm talking like a priest from antiquity. Do you know what the Theriac brings us?
Do you know what these pastels bring us? Do you know what these drugs bring us? Do you know what the incense does for us?
You're going to be able to drink that death dealer. You're going to be able to come through this. You're going to be able to be born again. You too will know the voice of God.
Yeah. Yeah. Let's bring it next text. Okay. I'm going to give a little more esoteric punch to this and we're coming up to a big climax, people. The ending tonight should be big.
Right? It should be. Don't promise and then not bring it. It's okay. I'm there. I'm there. Look, I'm not going anywhere. I'm here. You just relax. You just relax. You feel it, right?
You can know your own pleasure. Just know your own pleasure with these texts. And the beast who was and is not now, he's the eighth. He is the eighth and he comes from the seven, you know, and he will lead us to destruction.
Okay. Okay. Now you know. Do you know what brings her back? Do you know what brings Lady Babylon back? Don't push buttons on a ship. I've been pushing random things. Do you know what brings her back? The beast.
The beast bears her. And do you know what she has? Do you know what Lady Mystery has? She has the water of life. 60% of us are going to need that water of life if we bring her back.
The only way we're going to do it is through the beast, through the beast. Fortunately, we've broken the seals. Yeah. Let's go. Let's go. We got all this. I'd like to offer to any, to any person out there with a capacity to reinstate, to bring back the Oracle.
Yes. We have the mechanism. And we have from that product, the water of life, the water of life, a new medicine, a new genetic medicine built into nature, built into our genes. And all we need is that water.
We can produce it to anybody who's capable of doing that. Get in touch with me. I'll lay it all out for you. And I cannot buy my satanic contract. I cannot charge you a dime. Yeah. Otherwise, the knowledge of the way evaporates. Yeah.
Yeah. Isn't that something? It's pure. It's pure. Welcome back to the museum. You know, you want to come to it? Come to it. Let's bring it back completely. Go. Let's go to the next one. Oh, look at this one. Yeah.
Yeah. So what? Okay. Now I want to jump. I want to jump now to the castration. I want to jump to the disciples, the mathetai, the students of Jesus, these teenage boys that he's with continuously. And they're naked at some points when he's on the boat with them. When they're on the boat with each other, they're naked. When they're in the upper room, he's naked with them. And he's using his underwear to dry their feet.
Which nobody ever seems to find weird. But okay. Okay. I've seen a lot of cult stuff. You know, it's the germ phobia, right? In me. That makes me think. Why would you dry a 12 year old boy's feet that you've just washed and handled? Why would you dry that with the thing that's wrapped around your private parts? It seems odd, doesn't it?
I mean, if somebody did that daycare, I'd say, what are you doing? Right? But Jesus, Jesus gets away with it. And he's going to scandalize himself. Are you ready? We're gonna look at Jesus touching children. I want you to see it for the first time. Because yes, it is what it sounds like. Okay, bring us the text. This is Mark. And he says, yeah, and they brought to him children and in order that he might hop to them. In order
that he might hop to them. What is that? Oh my God. Oh, I didn't. It's later. Darn it. I didn't have money. I'm sorry. In order that he might touch, grab aggressively, conquer with the hands, induce sexual urges with to awaken and are in liven with the hands to grasp, to grasp. He's getting
handsy. This is what they want to do. And we'll see what this, what this means. Coat wise in a second. It says it. And this, what it, what it was disciples, what are the apostles say? They were, they, they gave him a hard time about it. Yeah, they called him short on it. And when he saw them doing this, he got pissed. This says Jesus got pissed. Yes, verse 14.
Isn't it? That means agon then needs to be pissed. And he said to them, you guys, let those little kids come. Write to me. Don't stop them. This is the kingdom of God. And I'm really a man. He's given up. He's given a forcefulcause That's what Christ does. Right. He's always Pronounce magic words.
these magic words. Amain is one of them. I say amain to you, right? And all of a sudden,
all the demons perk up, right? It's only when he's doing serious stuff that he does this,
right? Stuff that's out of a PGM. They use it too, right? So he says amain whoever receives
the kingdom of God as a child? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Wait, wait, what? As a child? Whoever doesn't do
this is what? Whoever doesn't receive the kingdom of heaven as a child? Why is not coming into it?
He's not going to enter into it. You got to receive it, hospideon, hospideon as a child.
You say what if I'm 90 as a child? Do you know how children receive the kingdom of God? You're
about to see it. You're about to see it and it involves putting your hands on them.
And you say, I went to Bible school. I went to Bible school. I went to Sunday school and I listened
to my pastor. I listened to him and he said, this is a buddy would do like this and yaw.
And I saw my priest. I was walking around the Vatican and saw my priest there. He was doing
right. Doing a little bit of that. You know what I mean? No, that is not the laying on of hands.
We're talking about the ancient mystery drug cult of Christianity.
So let's see what it is. Let's go on with the text. Oh, this is gorgeous. I love this stuff.
Thank you guys for I treasure every minute. I treasure every minute of this. Yeah, yeah. Okay,
yeah. Let him come right. And he says, don't prevent them right. And you got to receive it.
Hoss Pideon, right? You're not going to enter in with the very last line. This is 16.
And he enfolds the child. He enfolds them with his arms. And he puts his hands on them
while he is praising what he is putting his hands on.
Wait a minute. He is eulogizing. Did you ever notice what Jesus does when he touches children?
You don't see him doing this with Roman centurions. I guarantee you that.
When he puts his hands on them, he praises them. He eulogizes what he is touching.
Full body contact in folding that child, praising them. Do you know why? He's going to need those
children later when he gets arrested in the public parking for him with one of them naked,
with a bandage on their private parts. Okay, just wait. Just wait for those who want to be unics.
Stay after class. Oh, here, this one's for me. I need one of those. You're bad. Don't talk like
that. That's bad. Wow. No, seriously, hang out after class and I'll show you why I'm trying
to be Jesus. Let me see. Give me the text again. The next text. Just go on to the next. Uh-huh.
Yeah, this is just folding him in his arms. And this is the eulogizing. Go to the next one.
And oh, what? Yeah. Oh, yeah, this is Matthew. This is back in Matthew now.
Yeah. And so the people are bringing them the children in order that he might put his hands on
and what else is he doing? The only reason I bring this up, because it's almost word for word,
exactly what the Mark passage is. But the reason I bring it up is he adds a different detail. He
says he is post-alchema. He's entering a state of prayer. He's entering these prayers. Wait a
minute. You mean in our cult, when we pray, turn it, take it down. When we pray, this freak of an
angel takes this instance. Boom! And I'm fumigating you people. Yeah. Why? For our prayers, baby.
That's the only way you talk to God. You think you talk to God? Children. Children, you think you
talk to God sitting in your bed? Do you get out of your bed at night? Do you get out of your bed
at night, kids, and sit on the side of your bed and fold your hands and pray to sweet Jesus?
You are not Christians. That is not how it was done by Jesus and his peeps. That is not how it
was done. That prayer is carried on the back of a psychotropic substance.
Do you mean when Jesus gets thrown into the wilderness? Do you mean that's where he's going
to talk to the devil? Yeah. Yeah. All right. It's your prayers, my friend. What's Jesus doing with
kids as he touches them and praises their parts? He is sending up that incense of prayer to God.
And if you don't understand that, it's probably better off for you in the long run.
For those of us who want to see what's going on, because we're warriors,
let's keep looking. Jesus, I know we're getting here to a terrible, Jesus Christ, Jesus Christ.
This is getting to a terrible, yeah, let's go to it. Let's go to the next one. Yeah.
And the Pharisees, you know what I mean? Here's what's setting up his touching of the children.
Now watch the grooming of the apostles here. The Pharisees, they approach him and they're
going to test him, you know, and they talk to him about divorce. Long story short, they talk to him
about divorce. And is it okay? Moses said you can make a right in divorce. And Jesus says,
you guys are jerks, right? Don't you know that you're one flesh with your spouse? You're one
flesh, brah, right? And you can't separate that. God has put that together. Moses knew you guys
were idiots. And that's why he gave you that right to be able to do that. Right? And he finally
finishes up here in the end. He says, I'm saying to you, and whoever's going to put that her away,
whoever's going to divorce his wife, except for the case of porneia.
Except for the case of porneia. What is this person? He's a mojhoss. He's a mojhoss. You
know what a mojhoss was at the time? This is not a Jewish concept. Yeah, this is not.
A mojhoss is somebody who's going to freely, freely partake in it. You know what I mean?
You can't keep these people off. These people are nymphs, right? These people are satyrs.
They're not going to stop. So who's Jesus talking to? Well, he's talking to these Pharisees,
but his kids, his children, or his lamkins are still there with them and they're listening.
And they say that's not right, Jesus. Right? A group of kids says that's not right. Go to it.
Next one. Go to it. Yeah. Next one. Yeah. And so this is when they bring kids to them, right?
And they're saying, he's saying, allow them to come to me. I think I skipped one. Yeah. And so the
students, you know, the apostles say to them, you know, if this is the case for men with women,
look, if this is how it is for men and women, right? Now, and when I say when,
you could, for men there, you could also say purpose of people. You could also say people.
You know, and if this is how it is that we're going to end up dealing with women,
it's better not to get married. Right? That's, I'm going to read it to you again, just so
bring it back up. I'm going to read it to you again. Yeah. If this is the thing that happens to
the man with the woman, it doesn't help to get married. It's not advantageous to get married.
And Jesus said, oh, you're right, kiddies. I didn't mean to say that because I'm a follower of
Dobson and focus on the family. And I love, love, love the evangelical support of the family. This
is Jesus. Woo. No, he didn't say that. I wasn't translating. I was making that up. What does he
say in response? He doesn't deny it. He says to them something that's really creepy. So he says to
them, not everybody, not everybody can take in this thing, this Logos, except those to whom it's
given. Are you ready? And they're all looking at him like, huh? What? He says, listen, there are
eunuchs that come out of their mother already eunuchs. And there are eunuchs that are unicized
by other people. But little kiddies, are you listening? Right? I'm telling this to a friggin
12 year old. Are you ready? There are eunuchs who make themselves eunuchs for the kingdom of heaven.
And whichever one of you is able to take this on, take it on.
Okay. So did Jesus just groom a bunch of boys to consider becoming eunuchs?
And you're sitting there thinking eunuch, eunuch, what? What? I don't know. In antiquity, they're
cutting off a lot more testicles than you're used to. Yeah, a lot of testicles, people,
animals. It's just a thing. It's just a thing. Do you know the doctors are into it? You think,
you think your medicine is advanced for cross gendering? No. No, it's not. It's developed.
Yeah, it's developed. But the stuff that's being used originally, oh God, let's take a look at it
for a little bit. Does he have a cross covering his privates? He should. That gets my goat that
we have to do that. Chewie, it really gets my goat that we have to do this. We have to cover up.
I want people to think of that sign of the cross whenever they're tempted to think about the naughty
parts, even if they're the naughty parts of the goat. Yeah, let's go back. Let's go back. That's
thank you to my audience that tried to get me in trouble and get me adult ratings, the same people
who wrote. That's funny. Now that we're coming to the end of satanic initiation, what's funny is the
same people. Okay, I'll just say it. The same religious groups that complain to YouTube about my
content to try to get it yanked are the ones who say, oh no, he's wrong. Academically, he's wrong.
This word means that it's the same group. Does that make sense? It makes sense, doesn't it?
It's so inherently dishonest. Modern Christianity. I'm not talking about what Jesus did.
I'm not talking about what John the Baptist did. I'm not talking about any of the apostles.
I'm talking about modern Christianity. Modern Christianity is a lie, and it is a lie that
forces the person to become a liar. It's amazing. You can't hold these people to a standard.
You can't say your lies don't have any effect with us. They just do. Okay. Now,
I shouldn't. That was so boxy. I'm not here for so box. Let's go back. Boom. And yep,
this may be the longest Bible study ever. Yeah. This is just, oh, I want to show you the grabby
word. This is what Jesus is doing to the parts of the children that he's then saying, oh, this is
so nice. I love this one. Yeah. This is what he's doing. Okay. To cling to a thing, to grab.
Watch this. Watch the definition. Keep going. Of hop to a mind. Look at number three, to touch
your effect, to make an impression. See, it's not just contacting. It's to make an impression,
to grasp, to grasp. Look at number five, to have intercourse. Take it down. You mean this word
can mean to have just straight up to have intercourse with. Yeah. Why? Because it's grabbing in a way
that is fulfilling desire. Yeah. Yeah. Hop to a mind. Yeah. Let's go. Let's go. This is what
his next one. Well, and watch what happens. Here's what, watch what happens to the word.
To kindle. When you hop to my something, you kindle or you set on fire or something.
Right? You enter this place, this conflagration. You know what Jesus is doing? He's doing the same
thing that it says in the end of the Gospel of Mark. When we're going to be touching the people
and filling them with enthusiasm, I can touch you in certain places that will fill you with
enthusiasm. Yeah. Let me rephrase. Let me just say that again. You and I can come into physical
contact. I can use my hands and I can bring you to a place. Praise. I can inspire you.
I can bring that to you. Right? Well, Jesus is bringing the kids and every time he brings it to
a kid, we know it's not out of nor out of a normal parameter for what the mystery religions are
doing. They're calling their members pedarasts. John the Baptist is a huge one. He's walking
around with a penis shaped cop. Where do you put that?
Glass. It's essentially a glass phallus, a glass dildo. John the Baptist carried around a glass
dildo. Yes, that's a fact. And that's a scientific term dildo, by the way. Yes,
scientific. We have ancient dildos that have been found.
Really old ones. I think it's the oldest. Isn't it the oldest human artifact we've got
is phallus dildo from Stone Age? Yeah, I think so. Somebody sent me a picture out and they're
like, look at this. They found it. It's like 36,000 years old. I'm like, that's an old, old, old dildo.
Yes. You can have a bag of those and start a museum. Okay, I'm riding. I'm trying to ride that
line. I'm trying to ride it right carefully. This is school children. Don't be surprised if we have
to say scientific terms. Let's go to the, yeah, they're going to try to get me on that one. You
watch everybody. If this is taken down, you'll know what. Okay, you'll know who did it. Opticus,
right? Able to come into contact. Look at the just number three of medicines, right? Opticus.
It's that which causes, you know, the action of the, of the, of the plant that they're using, right?
They put it on there and it works as a medicine. You can say it works. Let's go to the next one.
Hmm. Here's a whole bunch. Oh, here's a whole bunch of Unix. I just thought I'd show you
how much the Greeks love this word, Unix, right? You can unicize someone. You can have something
that's adjectively Unic like, right? Talk about straight up castration, straight up castration,
right? Love it. The Unix, very common antiquity. And Jesus is encouraging the kids. He says,
right? Imagine saying to a 10 year old, that's what we need. We need to bring Jesus back.
That's what we need. You need to go to Sunday school and you need somebody to come in
and be Jesus. That's what you need. And Jesus will offer for you kids. He'll offer castration.
If you can take it, this is part of your thing. Do it. That was the advice. That was the advice.
It's very friendly. It's a very friendly kind of advice from Jesus, right? Why is that? Because
marriage sucks is what he says. The kids pick it up and they're like, if this is what marriage is,
forget it, right? Forget it. It's better not to be married. And he doesn't refute it. He says,
well, you know, there's a third option. You can remove your testicles for the kingdom of heaven.
Did you know you can cut off your testicles? I just want people to see this. You can cut off
your testicles for the kingdom of heaven, even if you're just a kid. So the Christians today
that are saying transgender people should not be able to do these things, they were the ones doing
it originally. Yeah. Think about that for a minute. Think of where their mind was. That was not
a problem, right? For a boy to castrate himself and to take on those more feminine characteristics.
That was normal. That was the kingdom of heaven, right? People say, does this religion always go
back to the Frigian mother? Yes, it does. It does. Come on, Addis.
Now you know what's going on in Jesus's mind. Let's just look at a couple of extra sources.
Yep, keep going. Look at this one, people. This is one nobody's going to give you. And I'll finish
up in 10 minutes. Give me 10 more minutes. An hour and a half is way too long. I appreciate your
time tonight. But let's just let's just ride this submarine all the way to the bottom. Who is this?
This is Orabaceus. You're never going to get this guy as a source. This is from the Corpus
Metachorum Gricorum. Thank you to the German philologists who figured this thing out, edited it
and whatnot. They've got us here the text. I'm going to go ahead and read it for you. Blow that up
for me, Chewie. Yeah, look at what's happening. I just want you to focus on the end of the first
line. You see the El Nujizantes? Wait, the unicizing? Yeah, it's the unicizing. Look at
the next word on the next line. Tofarmacon. Tofarmacon. He says, he's in the middle of talking
about disease and the treatment of disease with specific drugs. In this case, he was talking
about Hellebor for anybody who gives anything, who cares. He's talking about Hellebor and he's
quoting from a couple of very well-known physicians, ancient physicians. And he says,
when you're dealing with this, some people add this other thing to the wound or to the dressing.
And then, just like those people who make unics, they apply a drug which is there for the sake of,
for the sake of what? For the sake of that infertile
cauterization. It's not a burning. It's a staunching. Let me show you the word.
Next one. Yep, yep. A rindling, mangling, or look at number two. An irritation, right? That burning
of purgatives or plasters. These are the drugs that they're applying to the testicles.
To the testicles. And they're doing it in the process of castration.
Here are the drugs, people. Here are the drugs that they're using that Jesus would be making reference
to when he talks about making unics. There it is in living color. I'm not making things up about
cutting off people's testicles. It's there. And not only that, but there's drugs that we use just
for these purposes, right? Just for these purposes. I'm going to bring you the last. I want you to,
just to kind of set you up for the climax. Look, this is Galen's work on seed, right? Seaman.
Spermatos. See the Spermatos at the top? This is Galen's work on seed. And there's two books out.
There's an alpha and a beta. And alpha is about masculinity. Beta is about femininity.
And what is really, really creepy, you can take it down. What's really kind of fun creepy as you
read this, he'll talk about things like the testicles. Yeah, well, and he'll say this is how
you treat the testicles, right? Whatever case that you're trying to do, whatever it's with,
whether it's castration or not. This is how you do it. And he says, you know, the testicles of the
woman. And then he describes in detail where the ovaries are, in absolute perfect detail.
As if he were in his surgeries, observing these things. Yeah. And this is the connection with
those mania inducers within the right within the right you have got if you want to reach the
kingdom of heaven, you have to be in that Unix state. You have to be what is it that they're
doing for these Unix Galen will tell you straight up. This is how it changes the person. This is
how it changes the person. This is how they're able to interact with drugs. Right? These cults
are using drugs on people that they've castrated, because the castrated boys become the oracles.
When you don't have those androgens, you get that typically female response from the compound drugs.
This is why Jesus Christ was arrested in a public park with a naked boy
who had a bandage. The text tells us epikum on his private parts.
Yeah, we've been watching a cult for the last 2000 years. We've been watching a cult.
A sex drug orgy cult with a leader named Jesus who got pinched in a public park with a naked boy.
If you want to follow the sources, all I've done is give you sources. That last one that I put up
there is kind of funny. He says, let me just translate it. He says, you know, what's the use
or power of semen? That's how he starts his work. His great 150 page work.
What's the usefulness and power? What's funny is you and I, our culture, we don't do these things.
Have you considered the power of semen? When I say semen, he's talking about female semen as well.
The power of that which you give off that contains your elemental essence.
Yeah, that which brings the magic. There's something in us consuming that essence
is what kicks us into the mystery. Do you know why the word porneia is both fornication and idolatry?
Because you cannot perform the Christian mystery unless you are having sexual intercourse.
Unless you are producing the seed, you're not there. No mystery for you. Now you know why.
Now you know why. They started to practice it and eventually it got cleaned up. They took out the
drugs. They took out the sex. Yeah, and all you have left today with you is your empty
shadow of a religion. You are not Christians. I tell you directly today to all of you sitting
there who write me emails. May Jesus bless you and may Jesus come and forgive you. May Jesus do this.
You don't know your own Jesus. He was a pedarast arrested in a park with a naked boy
with a ton of drugs on board. He was the Christ. Thank you for coming tonight to Lady Babylon.
We'll see you Friday. Hail Satan.
Oh
