You gave me hope when it seemed hopeless You put a song in my heart
Showed me a road not often taken You gave me a start all the way
Why did you ever change your name all the way?
Why did you ever change your name?
Because you were like a wave on the ocean Wild and free you came
And you were like a storm coming out of mountains
Never to be tamed all the way
Why did you ever change your name all the way?
Why did you ever change your name?
Hello and welcome back to the Lady Babylon. This is Wednesday night Bible study.
And what I have for you tonight is something absolutely delicious.
I'm going to introduce you. I'm going to introduce you to the tomb man.
I'm talking about a guy. I'm talking about a guy that we don't really know in this modern era.
But he lives in the tombs. He lives in the tombs and he follows that prescription.
He has that authority and power. You know, tomb guy. Tonight on Lady Babylon.
So here we are. We need to purify this temple. I know that you're ready to do so and you want to get going on.
So put your seat back in the upright position. Store your tray table because it's time for us to take off.
I want us to be able to take full advantage of that store and I want us to be sitting on that throne.
If we are to understand the mystery of Anamiah, then we have to be positioned on that throne.
I'm going to bring you some texts tonight. I'm going to bring you a stranger.
A stranger just like the one we met that took Jesus's 12 children up to the upper room.
Shady guy without a name. Our guy tonight is another guy without a name.
And I want to bring him to you and I want you to show him. We saw last time we saw about the drugs that are being used on the cross.
So now what we're going to do is we're going to look in. We're going to look in into that shady guy and what he is, what he does.
We're going to see Jesus in action. We're going to follow the lace-taste tonight.
We're going to watch him. You and I are going to get to sit back. We're going to get to watch him work.
But before we do, we're going to purify. We're going to bring that catharsis.
Head at your end.
Thank you, Alex for bringing us back and for setting our mood. We need this purgation. We need it.
Tonight I'm going to bring it to you and I'm very, very serious because it's quite a privilege to be there looking over the shoulder of Jesus.
It's sacred ground. It's sacred ground. I want us to go there tonight and I'm going to open up.
I'm just going to bring Jesus right to you. Open up, Chewie. We need to start off.
Hit it. First star chart. Beautiful. Blow it up. Oh, this is going to be good. Can you feel it?
Oh, yeah. So what does he do? This is a character sketch of Jesus.
He's the dude who talks to everybody in parables, right?
He's the one who gives them only as much as they can hear without parables. He doesn't speak except when he's on his own with his kids.
And then he explains to them, okay, I get it, Jesus. I get it. Somebody was saying the other day, what about the apostles?
One of them's got to be over 18 or any of them over 18. One of them was a tax collector.
Here's the funny thing about the tax collector side. Matthew was sitting there at the tax collector booth.
Doesn't mean he was a tax collector. So even Matthew can be put into that same category of boys that Jesus goes randomly around picking up because that's how the ministry of the man we're following tonight begins.
Hail Satan. Yeah, we've got to stick with the truth, right? We've got to remind ourselves every once in a while to stick with the truth.
What is the truth? Tell me, pilot. How's it look? Let's go to the next one, Chewie. Fantastic.
Yeah, and so what are the kids doing? I just want you to see the attitude of the kids. Jesus gets on his boat because he started his ministry.
He's on a boat in the Sea of Galilee with a bunch of young children. And what's he doing? He's sleeping because these poor kids, these poor kids, they don't know what they're doing.
You know what I mean? The boys of Galilee don't know. Those of you who feel sympathy for the lost boys and for what they've had to endure for the kingdom of heaven.
Do you feel it? Do you feel that that unique energy? Do you feel that unique energy? Yeah, this is not that unique energy. This is something that society has generated an image for you to behold that is Disney.
It is not, when I say Disney, I'm talking about Mickey Mouse. I'm talking about the most incompetent portrayal. That's what I'm talking about. It is a Mickey Mouse portrayal.
Show us the children. Let us see the children. Let's go. Let's see the same one. Look. So they had this big storm and Jesus is sleeping down in the bowels of this boat.
And he's got his cushion with him, it even says. That guy's no dummy. He brought a cushion with him. By the way, all the kids are running around afraid.
And they come to Jesus and they wake him up. Right? Right? Right? And what does he do? He gets up and he's mad. He commands the winds to stop.
Oh my God. And what are the kids doing? They're afraid. They're afraid. And they say to one or what kind of guy is this? What kind of guy?
Look even the wind and the sea. They respond to him. They respond to him. Do you see the position those children are in? Good. This is going to be important later.
Let's come through the squall. And now we're going to find Tomb Guy. I've got all my apostles. I've got all my children. And now I'm going to go see. It's a lace day.
So I'm going to see Tomb Guy. Tomb Guy. Fantastic. This doesn't bode well. For those of you who are afraid, please, please think about the children.
Think about them and their welfare around Jesus. Give us the next one. This is, I'm sorry, people. It has to be stark. You know, it doesn't. The sting doesn't feel good going in, but it's got to be stark.
Here's Mark 437. Yeah. There was this great lilops. There was this great storm that came along. Jesus, you know, he did his thing, calmed everything down.
It was going to, he was going to swamp. What is this saying? It sins a wave over the boat. And it's going to swamp the boat, right?
Look, it's going to happen. And what happens? He himself, he's sleeping. I told you, he was down there on his cushion sleeping. And the kids woke him up. And what did they say to him? Ready, people?
Okay, for every one of you. Chewie, I'm sorry. Take that down. Take that down. For every one of you who has ever doubted my sincerity. For every one of you that includes scholars, non-scholars, stoics, philosophers, pimples, cantaloupe, salad.
It includes everyone. Watch what is happening. They call him teacher. You don't walk around and call a 30 year old man teacher unless you're a student, unless you're a child.
Didoscalos, grown men don't walk around calling each other that. You know who uses that term? It's a term used in education by the students of the master. The disciples are students of the master.
Good. Between 10 and 18. Hit the next one. Let's go. Let's go. It's going to get dark people. Just wait. I know you really want to see it. I know you really want to.
So they get over the storm. He calms it down and everything. I just want you to see in 5-2 and mark 5-2 what happens. Yeah, so they end up in this place where this dude comes out.
He comes out, rushes out to him. And he's a dude from the tombs. And look at those last three words. Look at those last three words.
He is an acathartic spirit. And right away, you and I drop off and have no clue about what that means. Watch the translations. An unclean spirit. What is an unclean spirit? I'm about to show you.
And I want to show you the verb that's being used above. Should I get it back for me? Look at the verb that's being used above that says Jesus. No, back up to the one we had before. Fantastic.
Look at Hupendason. What is that? What does the guy do when they arrive? What does the guy do? He comes up to Jesus. Give me the next one. He doesn't just come up normal. What does he do?
He comes up because they could have used here in the Greek, erchimai. They could have just used regular, any old verb for conveying oneself. They could have even used some form of planet to wander around.
They could have used anything. What did they use specifically? What did the author of this Gospel of Mark? What did he, she, it use?
Look, they used a word that means to come for the sake of a meeting. To come for the sake of a meeting. And it can be to meet a friend or it can be to meet another soldier in combat. But it's an engagement.
The guy from the tombs comes out to meet Jesus. Now let's look at this guy. Give me the next one. Let's look at this guy and see what.
Oh, what is, what is it? What kind of spirit has he got? He's got this kind of spirit people. I want you to look at a cathartus for a minute. What kind of spirit does he have?
An uncleanster, a fowl. What's at the end of that sentence? Look where the Victorians are doing people. This is a great education for you.
A woman. And then they give you something in Latin. Quay menstrua non hobbit. A woman who does not have her menstrual. Her menstruation.
Why is she impure? Because she has not had her catharsis. She hasn't had her cleansing. You mean they looked at the menstruation as a form of cleansing? Yes, they did. Yes, they did. Oh, I'm an orb.
I'm an orb, a floating orb of noise. Here. Thanks. Oh, hang on. We're going through some kind of time warp. What is this? Oh, fantastic. Oh, technical, technical difficulties. All right, I'm back.
My baldness is back. Look what's happening. We're talking about women's menstruation, right? And what is this thing that is unclean? It's the thing that is not being purged.
It's the thing that's not being purged. I want you to look at number two, that which is naturally unclean. And then at the end of that line, a catharté. Yeah, you.
What are they trying to do? Beast, right? You beast, you unclean. And look on the next line, maniades. What is something that is maniades? What is it? Take a look. Oh, here's the menstrual before we go. Let's go to the craziness first.
This is the madness. This is the madness. Yeah, that's what we have to consider. The madness, right? The going crazy. Look at the very bottom, the causing mania.
You mean you can have substances, you can take it down to you. You can have substances that cause mania. Yes, it's all part of the pharmacology, the polypharmacy of antiquity.
Right? And I'm going to show you those right now. So let's keep going and look at this guy coming from the tombs. Look at him and what's happening to him. Next, next source, please. Thank you.
Oh, this is great. No. Okay, let's leave this one out, people. I wanted you to see who else this who else has this spirit, this unpurged spirit, this spirit that would overcome a woman that would cause her hand to be filled with corruption.
What is that a cathartic water of life? Because that's what we're looking for. Now, we've got an example of a woman for those of you with ears to hear. Check out Revelation 7174, right? There's this woman dressed in this purple and this scarlet.
And what is she doing? She's all goldified, baby. She's got her bling on with her gold. There's precious stones and her margaritas, pearls. Yeah. And what else is she having? She has an inner possession, a golden cup.
And in her hand, this thing is full of the Delugmaton, all of that abomination, that abominable stuff. And what else does she possess? She has in her hand the Acatharsia.
She has that, which is a cathartic coming from her poor Naya. Because you see the medicine is ladies and gents, you know, it comes from her, right? So our dude who is naked, did I forget to tell you who's naked? Jesus is always coming across naked people, naked people.
I think it comes up, talks about him being naked. But he's in the tombs and in the mountains. What can I see what he does in a second? Let me not give it away. Okay, let's go to the next text. Fantastic. Boom. Let's bring up Mark 5, too.
Yeah, so here he is with his Acatharic spirit. Hit me again next one. Yeah, yeah. Oh boy, this is good. So look what he does. He makes his living. He has a place and dwelling place in the tombs, right? Yeah. And what is he? What is he? What is he special? What is the guy specially known for?
Nobody can trap him. Nobody can catch him and bind him up. He breaks the chains off, bro. He breaks the chains off. This guy is so high. When he has this Acatharic spirit that you can't restrain him. You can't restrain him. He's unrestrainable.
Let's see what else that he does. Let's see what else that he does next one, Chewie. Give me the next one. Oh, God, look at this. You know what they were trying to do? They tried to put these chains on him and these shackles specifically around his legs. They tried to hog time, like all the police departments do. You know what I mean?
But it doesn't matter because he comes back and he breaks everything. Nobody can bind him. Go, give me the next one. Nobody can bind him. Oh, and so what's the guy known for? You know, we're meeting him just now. He just came up to Jesus. Talk to him. Here he is in all of his glory. Is he naked? Yeah. And he's all cut up.
I'm going to show it to you. He's all cut up. Why would you be all cut up? It's kind of a mystery. It's a way. It's a portal. It's a portal through the flesh. Isn't that nice? Through the flesh. You make cuts on yourself. Go back to the text. Go back to the text. Boom. And all day long and all night long. What is he doing? He's in the tombs or he's in the mountains?
Even what is he? It's pretty sick. What is naked man with cuts all over his body? Do! In the mountains. He shouts. He cries out. He screams. And he cuts himself, cut or coped him. What does he cut himself with? Just rocks. Just rocks. Whatever he can find. Yeah. Whatever he can find. Do you get a feeling now that you're meeting this guy that is talking to Jesus?
Jesus, and we're gonna see from his reaction to Jesus exactly who Jesus is
Yeah, so remember we got there when
We have our ship with our children
now we're talking to
the naked man who just came out of the mountains or
Cemetery as screaming
Right fantastic. That's that's our world. Let's go the next one, please
Good mark and seeing Jesus. What is he saying? He's leaving from far. He had them
He actually runs up and he pros kinesis is them. He bends down
He bends down to Jesus. He gets down on the knees. He lowers himself
To Jesus. This is what naked man does. Why would naked man do this?
Because we know what those cuts are for and we know that Jesus is who he is
You're the Christos. He knows it. Haven't you ever wondered?
All these people walk up to Jesus and they're saying you're the Christos
Yeah, I'm never wondered why they were able to do that. Yeah. Yeah, he is
performing those
cathartic measures to purify to purify
Yes, he is purifying. Let's look at some more. Let's look at some more of his images
With his children who are depicted as grown people
Not that this shouldn't bother us because there's nothing wrong with a group of grown men
Washing each other's feet
There's nothing wrong with that
The fact is though those grown men are only grown men because that's the way that we want
To construct the false narrative
All right, we have to it would look weird if Jesus was in a room with a bunch of kids
And he got naked and tied his underwear on and then went around washing feet and using his underwear
towel to wipe off the
Sweat the feet of a 12 year old boy named John who he loved
Yes, John was his favorite everybody knew that
Everybody knew that about Jesus
Why do you think he was yelling? I'm not a lace this
Right, okay, let's keep going. It's it gets it gets gruesome people. It's the Bible
It's the Bible, but it belongs to us. So let's just see what does he say?
Um, he says in a voice he screams, right? He says hey, um, um
T M. M. I saw it. Yes, you know who you are
Well, you know who you are. You're the son of God. You look at that second line who ceased to the son of the highest
Okay, wait a minute naked God runs up gives Jesus a
Specific title and then says make some swear and oath. He says no make it so that you don't torture me
Because you're the son of the highest. You're the son of the highest
That's a specific phrase. Are you ready? Let's go back. Let's go back and see what the Hoopsie stays is
Yep
Here we go. Oh, this is the one to torture. That's okay. Keep going keep going keep going. Yes
Fantastic chewy. Thank you. Helpful. Um, I appreciate tonight's work
We're putting it in under duress on my dad. It's fantastic. No, it's the cosmos congealing them
This is a great joy
And so thank you. There's things in the atmosphere some things that you may not understand for now
Let's just you know forget those and let's look now. Whoo. Did you see that?
That was the quickest magic trick ever. Look at this. Um, now kiss a deck. Oh my god
I'm reading from the book of Genesis
Why am I reading for the book of Genesis because this is all contemporary stuff, right?
Genesis is a written until the third century BC. It's vocabulary and content are all
Mixed up in the milieu that is our new testament
Yes, and here here look Melchizedek you're Melchizedek wasn't he's that
King of Salim and what does he do? He brings bread and wine
He brings bread and what where am I what period? No, you're not where you think you are
You're not back in 1100. You're not back in 1300 with a dude named Moses. You are not going back to Abraham
What are we doing? We're going to the god. The god is on the second line
That
Is who the naked dude?
From the tomb identifies
Jesus as the son
of
Right and now you say oh
Oh, that's all why they're always talking about you take it down. Why they're always talking about
Those gods of the high places
Exactly
Jesus is being identified
By a man who makes intentional cuts all over his skin and possesses what seems to be
incredible strength
Coupled with a lot of nudity and a lot of people afraid of him and he's got a he's now bowing that dude
Is now bowing
Telling Jesus. He's the son of the highest
The son of the highest just saw him get off the boat comes over
Right, what does the son of the highest do? What do you think he does?
What do you think he does you do what Heracles does with hilus?
Yeah, do you know Heracles got mistaken for a lace days?
It's what happens when you sail in the port and you have your children with you
You mean Jesus was on a boat
As a pirate
Oh, hang on
Hang on. I just got something. Oh my god
Oh sit still sit still son of the highest
Oh
But seriously when Heracles got mistaken for one he corrected it right he corrected it because you know
It's your reputation is everything right and you don't want to be pinched as one of these people
Who is involved in the trafficking of children for the sake of sexual gratification?
Now, you know why Jesus is screaming. I am not a child trafficker
He does not he just like Heracles he gets in a situation where he doesn't really want to be there. It's too dangerous
It's too dangerous. Okay, let's go to the next text. I love this stuff. Nope the next one. Yeah, I think that was
Uh-huh. No, no, that's the highest. Let's go next one, please
Gorgeous. Yeah, and so what did he what did he say to him?
He said
This is Jesus now son of the highest
right and by these sons of god by the way
um
They're associated with the mystery
performances
So you always have a son of god who is that central?
producer
of the
Right and Heracles for example, there's temples to Heracles all over
Right and they're performing these mysteries and the only woman who's
Allowed to be in them when Heracles is with his children is Medea
Right because she is the one who's able to derive ultimately the awkward. We tie
So, okay, cool. Cool. I see why she's there. This is fantastic
but
This is the right that we're looking at if we're talking about the hoopsi stays the son of
God is an absolute
Fragment of history
Right Dionysus is the son of god in the enthusiastic right
Heracles was the son of god
In the enthusiastic, right
You notice that he was going to hell
right Heracles
right
Orpheus Dionysus
They're all doing it
When the dude who is naked and under the influence of that sex craved maniacal spirit
That's where he is
Yeah, when the dude is there
That's all that he's got
And so he ends up begging jesus to stay there right and jesus is like no bro
I gotta go. I gotta do my thing elsewhere with these
children
Right and you know, that's that's the way it goes right off. He goes. He gives a little wave
Flash bang and there you go right now somehow we turn that into a narrative that makes sense
In in order to feed our delusional
Understanding that jesus pops on the same poop and he said i'm the son of god
And christ and everybody's like oh
No
No, that's not how it happened. You know it and I know it
Yes
Yes, let every evangelical know it
Our strength our strength
Is bringing the bible to them
That's our strength
Showing them rubbing their face in it
Taking that naked kid scene with jesus that's so perverted
And showing them look look what your guy's doing
Look what you guys doing. I had an interview today on a podcast
Um, I'll let you know further information about that
But um, that's what you can do with people
Show them the text open up their eyes just open up their eyes to what's there
Okay, let's go. You guys know that we're doing that hallelujah, right?
hallelujah, chewie
hallelujah, let's go on to mark five nine and
He asked him he said
What's your name?
And he said to him my name is legion. Oh, I forgot. I just get okay. So right. He's got a plurality
He's got a plurality that jesus has to command
Right. What what does jesus do to the dude? He casts out
Those spirits
He casts out those spirits. You mean he brings him to a place of of total sanity. Yes
He takes a visibly disturbed mentally disturbed individual
And he knows exactly how to bring him back
Oh, are we talking about the treatment now? I'm going to take you somewhere. This is kind of a side
a side
Field trip. I want you to go. I'm going to take you to some texts that have some of the darkest
magic about them the darkest
Psychological medicine
All right, how do you heal? You know what happens? It turns out you're a depressed person
Don't try to make them feel better. Don't feed those serotonin loops
That's not what they need. They don't need the chemicals that make you feel better
They don't need that
They need the ones that show you terror
The ones that induce psychosis
That bring you to a place where you question everything and everyone
and
Where you can see your sanity
Lay it out right in front of you. This is an ancient form of healing. You mean I got a turn
I got to turn my friend into a
freak
Of nature in order to get him back into a place of health. Yes
It's what you have to do
Jesus knows what is being used at the time. He knows about the water of life
And he knows about the treatment
Let's go to the next let's go to the next source. There he is. That's gorgeous. Look at him. I'm not quite sure
I don't even know from this. Can we just stop to say look at this
Look at this. I I don't even know
what
Fragment of first of all, it's not a towel. He's wearing around his waist. It's not
It looks like you get that from the next door the hotel next door is bed sheet or something
Who brought all the sheets to these people who covered them up the niv covered them up
What is that the niv the new international version it covered them up
It turned the scene down into a garment like that
For the sake of the fairy tale, but look none of this makes sense. What are they doing?
Do people look at this if you looked into a room?
Let's be scientists if you looked into a room and you saw this sitting in front of you
This is what the people are doing. What's the first thing you would think?
Something wrong with these people
Does this look like a normal scene? First of all, why is he touching his feet?
Why is he wearing his sheet? Did he just get lost from a tauga party?
What's going on and one of those perverts doing looking in the window?
Get out of there you weirdos
What is this even a scene of am I supposed to be drawn to this?
I mean christians criticized the classical art for being so full
Of that luscious loveliness of life that the artist gets. What is this luscious loveliness?
This is weird. I just came across a building with some dudes. I'm pretty sure
I'm pretty sure they were involved in some culty stuff
It's weird
Now imagine if they just put the apostles in the right age group
Yeah, imagine if jesus is doing that with a 10 year old john
10 year old john poor john
poor john
Oh god, it's sad
Save the children people. What happened? How come nobody wants to save these children?
Save the apostles. That's what I say
Get him and in just out of the hands of this lace taste and send him back to school
Maybe that's why people wanted jesus crucified. Maybe they wanted this kind of activity cleaned up
I don't know. I don't know. There's resistance to it. All right
We're trying to civilize this province this backwater
this
Place here
You know you have libraries
How are you supposed to know anything here?
Pave the roads people
The dirt's not for walking on
Build yourself an infrastructure. Get this thing done. Come on civilization calls
It's a struggle it's a struggle and antiquity between classical civilization
And the rough and tumble backwards of the frontier that's what it is and judy is part of that frontier
Um, yeah, yeah, let's go to the next source. This is lovely. Um, I I'm gonna wrap up here in justice
Yeah, I'm gonna wrap up pretty quick, but I wanted you to know, um
Yeah, so the people of the town, I just wanted you to see here
They come and they see that his demoniac look at the fur. Look at the second first word on the second line
demoniato men on right the one who's been
Filled with that diamond and you say to yourself. I'm thanking demon
From my silly narrative that's been fed into my head from the christian perversion
Of the text and yes, that's exactly that demon is power and we recognize that those powers are controlled by drugs
Yes, those powers are controlled by drugs. I can give you a drug that would take away all of your demons
I can I'm gonna show you some people who do in just a second. Wouldn't that be nice?
By the way, I'm gonna take you to a place where we can launch. This is three and a half years. It's all it takes
It's a prototype. We've got to develop it the next frontier. It's not mars
The next frontier is beyond the black hole. That's where it is. That's where it is
Getting to hell and back the last frontier
We're gonna have it up and running you can put yourself into the death machine
You can go through it. You can come out of it. You can be born again
Hey, and then you can tell us you can tell us
This is the mystery
in practice
All right, it's being fed in antiquity
by these
factories
human factories of divine fluids
Yeah
Yeah
Amazing, let's go to this. Let's go to the next source and what happens. Oh
Yeah, um, they asked them to leave
No, yeah
No, eventually the people come in right and they're like, would you please leave town?
Jesus is like, huh? And they're like, no you drug freak get out
And you thank to yourself if jesus showed up bring forgive me some pictures of jesus there if jesus showed up
Where's the what let's see him wouldn't this what could you kick this guy out of your town?
Come on. Give us a good one. Chewie. Come on. They're all waiting for it
Oh
Yeah, okay. Would you kick the where is he? I didn't see him. He's with a bunch of old people. Who are these old people?
Who are these old people he's with? Where are the kids?
Right, look at him sitting there. Okay. Look at him under the tree
You couldn't kick this guy out of town. You couldn't kick him out if you wanted to
Look, he's doing nothing bad. He's doing nothing. No BS. He came into your town
He took that dude that's all cut up and he was able to manipulate him into his little buddy
Turn him in and the guy asking me stay. Let me stay with you. He's like, no, no
Right, he was too old
Right
The picture is dark. Do you wonder why in jesus?
The crowd was like this guy deserves it
This guy deserves it. He deserves what he's getting
Isn't it funny that history took the biggest villain the greatest villain
and turned him
into a king
and a prophet
and a
christ
He turned him into that glory
Jesus christ
Jesus christ jesus christ you got your crosses all over the place. It gets my goat those crosses get my goat
Where's my goat joy? That's the cue
Yeah, those crosses get my goat. They're all over the place every time
You look at a cross
Every time you look at a cross you see history's biggest villain
turned into
history's
savior
Yeah, history's savior
The real jesus is what we're after. Okay. Thank you miss goat. That was beautiful. Okay. Give us the next one
I'm gonna give you some text now. Just sit there
I just want you to see the first word in the first line in this one yasun
You see that you see that it might as well be yasus
Yeah, and then look at the end of the line second the last word
Wait a minute. You mean this text says jesus and
Something about a christing all in the same passage. Yeah, and then look on the line underneath that fada makoi
With a drug
With a drug. Is this talking about jesus with the drugs? This is talking about christing
And it's an yasun who's doing it and he is doing it at the instructions
of the medea
The medwa go to the next one
Hmm
Love it people look at the top line, you know, you got you see jason again
And look at the second line d dosen. That's a nice me verb for the people who are out there
Practice with it, right? D dosi dosi dosi. Yeah
D dosi and what does she give him? She gave him the fada makon
Right with what she's gonna be able to yoke those bowls and chrisis. She told him
Get out say she commanded him. I want you to I want you to take note of that
I want you to take note
She told him
What do you got to do? You got a christ your ospita your shield your daughter your spear and your soma
Your body
Your body, I want you to christ your body the yasun
Is the christ and everybody knows look at um underneath the bottom
What happens medea when you christ yourself? This is by the way, this is uh, paula doris
Look from the second line from the bottom. He says what happened for one day
This is what she tells him for one day
You'll be immune from fire
Yeah, wait, what? Yeah, you'll be immune from fire. Thanks. That's fantastic immune from fire and you can't be injured by
By an implement of iron
Yeah, by a weapon no injuring
You won't feel a thing
This stuff will take away your pain and you can go go go
You can go go go just like the guy just like guy. Where are you guy?
Where's our naked guy?
Bring him out. Do we have a picture of that guy who was in the tombs and in the mountains who's crying out to jesus?
That's not naked. Is that naked?
Is that him?
um, okay
He's let's let's bring him back guy
I want to ask you guy. What happens when you put that stuff all over you
Um after you've made all those slits after you've made all those slits
I'm going to show you guys a linguistic connection
Right now. I'm going to show you a linguistic connection. That's what they're doing
With the drug they're putting it into the cuts that they're intentionally making in their flesh
All right, you can push the thorn like paul does and become immune to the venom
Or you can make the cuts
You can make the cuts
It's those cuts in the flesh that have that immediate
Have that immediate rush. Oh god. Let's see it. Did you think jesus was involved in so many drugs?
It's crazy. Isn't it? It's kind of interesting though. Let's go the next one. Let's go the next one. Oh, here it is
Look, here's another drug right at the top, you know, um, what really can medea do?
That pharmacone that she gives it can make you new
Take it down. It can make you what it can make you new
That thing will bear you again. It will take your immortal. It will take your mortality and it will burn it off
It'll burn it off. So we have to cut your skin
We have to cut your skin. Sorry. It's gonna look horrific and anybody watching you go through this
Right to burn off your mortality will want to rescue you
Don't worry about it. That's why jesus knows and he steps up to the dude
Who's just the bockin who's just come out of the tomb right out of the graveyard? Here he comes
Yeah, he knows what to do jesus knows how to command
that power
He's recognized as the son of the highest
It's exactly what the son of the highest does
Fits perfectly within the mystery cult
Fantastic. Let's go to the next one
And uh, just a couple more just a couple more. Oh, this is what medea did. I just wanted to tell you
Remember medea. She she made a peplos again for
For her husband's future wife
He made she made her a gown and it says here that she she really worked into the fabric. She
Rubbed into it drugs
Right drugs and what did she do? She sent it to her and what happens when she put it on
She burst into flames. Look at that very last line cut the flesh thin
I remember flago to burn and you get flocks from that and that radiant glowing
Burning that light that is the power of the universe
That thing that's coming from the fire. That's what she turned into
She turned into a giant flash and her daddy got with her says the text. He was trying to help. Oh daddy help me
And she burned it both of them to death
Right. Um, is anybody noticing a theme?
Right. Is anybody noticing a theme?
There's the fire thing going on
Um, which they're using it contemporarily. They're developing
these combustible, you know
Medicines for lack of a better word and yeah, you can use one of them to protect yourself from another
Let's go to the next very next one
Oh, fantastic. Um, here's Heracles. I just want you to see people because nobody believes me until they see the great
And they're like, where do you get these ideas?
On an interview today
Guy was like, where else can I find this and I said the bible go to the bible and read the bible?
It's there. It's all there. I'm not making things up. All I'm doing is quoting sources
Do you have ideas? No, I don't have any ideas
It's not selling books. You guys know that I can't I can't keep repeating that
We don't sell books here. You know what books are all about
Books are all about the size of your rectum in the underworld
Because if you are selling books right now, the muses hate that
Because you're pretending to be one of theirs, but you're not one of theirs. You're a huckster
You're a huckster. And you know how they punished that in the underworld was sodomy. I'm just being straight up
Straight up
Yeah
Yeah
Yeah sell your books
Come on and give me your ideas. Here's a show. Come on and give me your ideas. They smell like feces
Give them to me
We'll make a solution out of it. It'll make everything slide into place
your history
You're disgusting
Sell your books
Yeah, welcome to the slaughter
Let's go to the next one. That was a little bit
Yeah, okay
Heracles is coming to cost and what happens. Just look at the just look at the end of the first line
Kainomi santes and they thought out on they thought he
The key the people from cost thought he was
Leistricon right
again
Stolon
Stolon he he has a leistic
Mission under way
Right with leistic equipment. He just sailed into port. He's gonna steal your kids. Grab your daughters
Grab your daughter. She's only nine. Doesn't matter grab her
Right. Oh my god
Leistice these leistice are terrible
Does it surprise you for those of you who were sitting here thinking heracles?
What is heracles doing
Being mistaken for leistice. Did you ever realize that heracles walks around with a nine-year-old boy?
Yeah, but don't worry. So does Zeus
Who is called Zeus of the highest?
The hoop sea stays you mean the hoop sea stays is the one who's known for having the boy. Yes. It's johova. You boneheads
It's johova
Hallelujah, yahoo
Did you hear that?
It's johova who's the highest
Yeah, he assumes that title they give him that title in the third century and why do you think they give him that title?
because
You can't have the history if you don't have the docks
And they didn't have the docks they needed them
So they created them
Yeah, linguistically
Oh, it's sad
Right, you shouldn't have to fake your own
heritage
You shouldn't and you should be proud of wherever
It comes from even if it comes from an invention
Yeah
If you buy that little axe, I give you I'll sell you a bridge in new york. I don't care which one you want
I'll say any of them
Yeah, not really because I'm on contract not to make any money
But I'll mentally sell you one
Yeah, gorgeous. Let's go to the next. Where's the next one? Oh
Here it is. Oh, look what happens. Look what happens here. Look at the end of the second line
um
What is
What is going on? Look, we need
this
constant supply
Of poisons in order to keep this right going and I'm heracles
And I am going to come along and I'm going to baptize my arrows
You say he's going to baptize your arrows. You mean the word for baptism is used for soaking arrows and poison
Yeah, they do it right here and he does it from the holy the venom
Right, he does it from the venom. He puts it on his arrows
If you are out there with the cult in the arremon, you're only there because of the arrows
You're only there because of the oistras
Yeah, jesus knows it. Why do you think he knows? Did you think he was a magic man and he walked up and he was like
I can see this man's
Got to have the power of jesus and he's like boom
And turn freeze him from his problem. I'm a heel
You knuckleheads can go watch the baptists pull this
Garbage through their revivals if you want if you want that religion go ahead
But that's not what the text is showing us. He recognizes jesus's capabilities
Based upon his connections with the cult
Everything that he's doing
You you never you let me ask you evangelical something. Let me ask you something. You never considered once
Just ask yourself. Why is jesus christ spending so much time in tombs in cemeteries?
He gets arrested in one. He gets arrested in one
Why is he always going into these places? Why does sudo clement? Tell us
Well, why does it tell us that he ends up in a tomb with a boy?
Who is begging him to be his lover?
Yeah
Yeah
It's all about those feet
It's all about those feet
Let me wash your feet
Let me wash your feet and you people have been sitting there propping this up and i'm not talking the satanic congregation though
I'm talking to you people who prop up that cross. You've been propping up a creep
One of history's biggest creeps
Foot washing creep
I'm gonna wash. I'll tell you this if I had a 10 year old boy
I sure as heck wouldn't let him hang around jesus. I don't care. He's gonna wash his feet. You know what?
I got something to wash
Yeah
Do you hear the voice of the people who cried out? Listen to it for a minute hear the voice of the people who cried out
crucify him
You only have two choices you can believe the reality or the fairy tale
The fairy tale is that those people were filled with the devil
You can go back to mel kipson mel Gibson capture the devil you saw it
He scanned the crowd of the people hating. Oh, there he is
You can follow that fairy tale or you can follow the reality that these were just
people
Normal every day people watching a child predator
Get what was coming to him
You know crucify him
crucify him
Let's go. We got a couple more texts and we'll we'll end for tonight
Um, I just wanted to see here that dea is making drugs and this is so important people
This links everything together. Look at that third to last line the third line from
Second line from the bottom dea pharma con that's how medea is working and what is she doing?
She's creating mani on look at that second to last word mani on
She's creating mania. She is creating a mental state of psychosis
A delusional psychotic trip bring it back to me a delusional psychotic trip and
What is she doing with the drug? She's embolusis. She's embolowing it
She's emboling and one of them man. Um, get get us the next one
Check this out people embolo. Oh, it's so nice and you can tell it's like a second heiress
Look at that second heiress. It doesn't have those alpha endings. It's got that. It's got everything looks like it's present
Don't you love it? You you didn't think
Language could be so sexy, but this is sexy language. Look at this. It means to throw in
Means to throw in what the heck is that? Um, let's go down to definition number seven for
Embolo and what does it mean? It means to put in it means to put in
A muhas and we see philumenus in his work on the drugs. Has anybody read this on this on the poisonous
Creatures, right? That's philumenus. He's writing about the poison. Does anybody read this from antiquity? No
Look at the last author that's online or bassius. Does anybody read or bassius? No
What does it mean? It means to apply something on a muhas and what do you get when you check out a muhas?
You get those scratches
You get skin wounds
Right, right. You see in medicine
scarification
Right, right amoxus. What is the amoxus from number two?
That is things that you do as a sign of sorrow when you scratch your breasts as a woman mourning
Adonis you cause them to bleed you bring yourself open wounds
Take it down. That's what he's doing
That's what he's doing and what do you do with these drugs that you christ
Put them through the wound
You bring them through the wound. Jesus knows exactly what this naked stranger is doing
in a cemetery
He knows
And he helps him
He helps him to be able to deal with the mystery to be able to find that king of heaven
And the people ask him to leave they're like get out, bro
You're causing some stuff here doing some strange stuff
There's a lot of drugs going on
Just get out
Right. Take your 12 kids with you. All right, especially that little one. Stop it. Get out of here
Right. Go go home. Go home when jesus picked up peter. He was on a boat
Um, just like james and john who were with their daddy. They were with their daddy
Yes
Yes, we did it. Let's go to the last source. This is it for tonight people. This is it. I just want to show you
What's gonna happen here, um, he was deceived. Who are we talking about take it down. We're talking about
A giant of a person a guardian
Who is causing trouble?
Who is causing trouble because of what they're guarding?
And what we have to do is figure out how to get rid of him
How to stop this guardian?
We're going to the highest and we want to stop the guardian to get there
We want full access
This guy won't let us in he won't let us in so what do we do?
What do we do?
We know we can use drugs to drive him mad
We know we can because we follow the medwa
We follow the medwa from edim
Right and so we know we know what the bachic
Ecstasy is we know what it is
Right. Okay. Go back to the text. Go back to the text
Did something get your goat chewy? Something got chewy's go put it up that got chewy's good. This one's for you
Chew I dedicate this goat look into the cross
Look into the cross people
And emblazoned that cross
Into your brain emblazoned it. Okay. Sorry. Let's let's go to the last okay
Um, what happens here? He was killed by medea this guardian
Right. Oh, you don't need to know his name. Just like you don't need to know guy's name who was in the tomb
Right. Okay. He has one. I'm not going to give it to you. How do you like them apples?
What happens to him medea kills him and how does she do it?
Look at the third line horseman anyway, as some people legacy as some people say she did a
Diafarmacon through the drugs she induced mania
Right by applying it as you would to his wounds
And what happens, you know, some people say well, you know, she came along you can take it down
She came along and you know, there were these offers of mortality and immortality medea is
Medea is essentially
paving the way for these clowns
To be able to succeed in their bs
And she's doing it with her drugs. She induces mania
Apollodorus tells us about a group of young women
Who refuse to accept
Bacchus are they using the drugs? Yes. Are they applying them the same way?
Damn straight, but they didn't accept the god and what happens when you don't accept the god
You got to call up some auger who's going to come out to you and he's going to say
I'll round him up for you and that's what he does. He gets a party of people together
They round up these baccant women who are insane and they treat them
To bring back their insanity by purging them
By purging them
Yeah
You see at the time
From the Bronze Age forward
We know people are using drugs to induce mental states
When that naked guy stumbles out of the tombs
All cut up
All naked
Nobody screams
Jesus just steps up
And the naked guy steps up to Jesus
And bam
miraculously
He's able to affect a cure
through
his magic
It's the mystery we are standing squarely looking at the christian mystery
I want you I want to say one extra thing tonight
And I want you to think of this
I normally don't ask people to think about anything
But I'm requesting
I'm requesting the vision
To take everything that we know about this right
And to put this right into practice
To begin to start sending once again
Souls
From the living to the dead
And bringing them back
We
Have the ability
To resurrect
Jesus
We have the ability to put the person into the state that will cause them to be born again
We have the ability to go to that frontier
Perhaps
Perhaps in an upcoming
finale of this
Venture perhaps we'll see the way to do that together
Thank you for coming tonight. I appreciate your time. It is valuable to me
Hail Satan
Oh
You
