Rwy'n cael ei ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud.
Welcome back to Lady Babylon and Your Satanic Initiation. It is my privilege to have you here with me tonight, and we have an excellent show.
We have a guest tonight in the form of Dr Carl Ruck, who will be addressing a couple of questions.
We will also have a visit from a ghost of the past and introduce you, this is the first in our series, on meeting Peter, Peter Jesus.
Let's get started.
Tonight I want to start out with kind of a look on the inside. I want to just briefly describe for you a situation.
Imagine a couple of scholars, a couple of professors, a couple of professionals trying to find out what's going on with these ancient texts and what they're saying and what they're talking about.
We're trying to figure this out. It's difficult. Remember, we're always a Satanist. You're always on the edge. You're right at where that ceiling is.
You're right at that borderland, right? Right at that threshold. So we want to know about all these deep dark crevices that will allow us to throw off this glass ceiling.
Imagine Daryl Bach. Yes, Dr Daryl Bach. Who's Dr Daryl Bach? This is Dr Daryl Bach, and it's nice to meet you. Throw him up there. He's a premier expert in New Testament, particularly the Greek.
He is a master at the Greek, and he is the head wizard at Dallas Theological Seminary for the ancient Greek program. Yeah, for the New Testament Greek program.
I sent him an email. I was working on a follow-up to the Chemical Muse, and I sent him an email, and this is the email that I sent him.
Dr Bach, I'll read this to you now. Dr Bach, I am Dr D. C. Oman Hillman, author of the Chemical Muse, St Martin's Press 2008.
My area of expertise is ancient medicine, pharmacology, and the use of pharmaceuticals in mystery cult from the late Bronze Age to Imperial Rome.
I work with both the Greek and Latin, and I'm a bit fond of the linear B.
I'm writing to you to ask for your textual insight.
I'm working on a book about the use of drugs in mystery ritual and found numerous sources that reference the use of sexual stimulants by Jesus and his apostles.
The PGM and knownness in his paraphrase of John discussed the specific drugs.
Galen and Scribonius Largus confirmed their sacramental use and some interesting data on the use of antidotes to treat any negative side effects.
It turns out these drugs were popular. Viper venom-based compounds used by the pagans in their own mystery rites.
What is really curious is that one specific compound, which sources a tribute to the Christians, is used in sexual rites involving the ritual rape of young boys.
The priest of this cult was called, quote, the pedophile and followed the Ellicinian type mystery celebrated in both Greece and Italy based on resurrection.
Jesus was, of course, arrested in the company of a naked minor who possessed at the time a medicated rap.
You may know already, but on the medical side of the Greek, the linen rap referenced by Mark is a drug impregnated bandage used in religious ritual and medicine.
It was a popular avenue of applying drugs.
The sources, including even the Roman juvenile, connected the use of drug-induced ritual with the baptists and their use of the vitreo priapeo.
If you have time, I'd like to ask if you have noticed Jesus ever using religious expressions consistent with Medic Orphic Bacchic cult.
Otto Kern, editor of the Orphic Fragments, called the Orphic language the Vox Orphica.
It was an ancient means of conveying cult-sensitive material.
For example, the having ears to hear is a pagan expression using the Orphic mystery to delineate those who have been initiated or baptized and can therefore understand the true content of the speaker.
Are you aware of any work on Jesus using Orphic or Medic expressions?
Thank you for your time.
That is one academic with titles, approaching another academic with titles, saying, what is going on?
I sent this message to 27 of the leading premier scholars, most of which were ended up being classical.
It was a thesis with training in the language because I know that's the evidence we're working with.
If you don't do the languages, you're making stuff up.
That's just the way it is.
I sent it out and Dr Bach very nicely sent me a response like many people did.
It was short and to the point.
Can we bring up Dr Bach's response?
Amen. All very strange and hardly historical.
You're wasting my time and yours, Darrell Bach.
Now, interestingly enough, you'll notice at the bottom.
Keep it up there, Chewie.
At the bottom.
Look at his titles.
My response was senior research professor.
Darrell Bach, you're the senior research professor of New Testament studies.
If anybody should know these sources, you should know these sources.
Dallas Theological Seminary.
Executive director for cultural engagement from the Hendricks Center, DTS Dallas Theological Seminary.
In case you didn't pick that up before.
Yeah, these sources I can assure you are historical.
They exist and they're real and that's what we're looking at.
So there you can see.
Can you feel the ceiling of where the mind can't go?
There's a limit.
There's a mental limit there.
Now that was the bad example of scholarly interaction.
The good example is Dr. Carl Ruck.
Dr. Carl Ruck.
And I know that most of you will know Dr. Carl Ruck.
What do I think you should know about him besides the fact that he's a genius who is a skilled master at the highest level of the ancient Greek.
And has jumped into the deep, deep depths of the ancient sources.
And knows he's forgotten more Greek than any seminary in this country has learned.
I can guarantee you that.
Anyway, Dr. Ruck, I want to run a couple of clips of Dr. Ruck.
Now what I did was I asked him the same difficult types of questions, but he has studied the ancient cult.
So he's not following the fairy tale, right?
Where we were not allowed to.
This is our jungle gym and this is where we play, right?
Everything set up nicely.
No, he's able to say, well, you know, what are the sources say and where can we go?
You know, he might get accused of being a Satanist because he follows reason.
And so let's just go ahead and run on asking some difficult difficult questions.
Carl Ruck, would you?
Would you give us some answers of the beauty of the world?
Go ahead, run Carl.
What I think is most important about my work and what I find most interesting is uncovering the.
The pattern of metaphors that describe the sacred.
Sacrament.
And once you have uncovered that it's really quite simple and quite obvious why these metaphors existed.
But since they are metaphors, they've been interpreted in a totally different way by people who are unaware of the fact that the ancients were into altered consciousness by the use of metaphors.
Of a psychoactive sacrament or antheogen mythology is filled with cows and bulls.
But not ordinary cows and bulls because they're bulls that deduct maidens and maidens that have a passion for bulls.
And so it has nothing to do with the fact that, well, everyone likes to steak dinner or they did herd animals.
We're talking about sexual encounter with bulls, which is not an ordinary, expectable experience.
Bulls do not want to copulate with women and women do not want to have sex with bulls.
So sex with bulls and yes, it's not difficult then to jump to the looking at the mysteries and pedophilia then, is it?
No, Carl Rock is not afraid to discuss the background.
Let's see another bit.
And staring us in the face all along is the fact that the bowline is metaphor for the mushroom.
It shouldn't be, has there been something that we didn't know for such a long time.
So it's very clearly in the mythical tradition.
We have the tradition that Perseus, who uses a pruning hook, which is not a warrior's weapon, cuts off the head of the war with Medusa.
And he does this at the site of Mycenae, in that he picked for the site of Mycenae, picked a mushroom.
So the gorgon head and the mushroom and the founding of the city are clearly defined as occurring with the picking of a mushroom.
The city is supposedly called after that.
I mean, I guess I'm wondering a bit.
I'm almost embarrassed to say it, where does mushroom come from?
You can trace it back and it isn't, no matter what, exilomorphism of a bellowing bowline.
It's a moosh.
Now that man is free to say that today.
When he first was looking at this years ago and he noticed that, discovered that the Ellicinian mysteries were involving drugs, he wasn't well received.
His research was kind of, yeah, congrats, you know, it's great.
You can't ignore his genius, right?
Because it's a language.
It's why he can play the piano so well, right?
It's a skill.
And he does that with the Greek.
And so he's not afraid of talking about bringing these concepts forward.
So now, fast forward to the present, and we have now the psychedelic renaissance in which the physicians have finally caught up.
And now, all of a sudden, there's a regrowth of interest.
And he doesn't sound like such a lunatic, right?
If we had stayed where Bach was trying to put us, we would stay with that very comfortable framework of reality that is an unreality.
So the job of the Satanist is to bring you that which opens your eyes to reality.
Where do we get the connection with the pedophilia in antiquity? Please, Dr. Ruff.
The sexual collection of seeming can only be accomplished by masturbation.
And so it may be a similar procedure that was used to collect the menses, which would mean that the collection process was some kind of work out.
Yeah, nice.
Which is, of course, why Michelin includes the French history, includes the Satanic ritual of collecting in a tripod, the ejaculation of Satan's bride.
Yes, yes, makes great sense.
Could you tell us if we wanted to go deep into it?
Because Dr. Ruff, we are looking here for the boy that was with Jesus in the public park at 4 am who was naked.
We're looking for that boy. We want to know what is that boy doing with Jesus there?
You wrote a lot about ejaculate and milk, sacred milks and what not. Could you just say something about the ancient messiness, ancient messiness, ancient, you know.
Yeah, give it a, what's that stuff on the top of the mushroom? You lick it off and it's real. You know what I mean?
Yeah.
I don't know, but I want to talk about these things.
All right, so everybody has a limit. Everybody has a limit, but not me.
And so I want to find out, I want to look at what's going on. I want to find, I want to introduce you to Peter of Jesus.
I want to introduce you to a Jesus that you do not know, but a real Jesus.
And the way that we're going to start there in this series of Sabah is we are going to bring you Jesus's associates.
Who are these people that are around him, the important ones, right?
We're looking at a crime scene and we're trying to figure out when the posse showed up and arrested him.
And there was the fight and the three guys that were supposed to keep watch, but were in this drug stupor, kept falling asleep.
Those three guys, they didn't do their job and those cops came in and caught Jesus with the naked boy.
We want to know why he was there, why the boy was there, and what is it in Jesus's background?
We want to go through all of his friends. We want to know who is associates, who is accomplices, who made this possible?
What kind of drugs are being used?
And in order to do that, we'll start with Mary because look, we have Mary Magdalene has the drug connection.
If there's any reason that naked boy is in that garden with Jesus, it's because of Mary Magdalene.
She is somehow facilitating this. She is facilitating this.
And we know that she is because she gets pardoned. She gets pardoned eventually by Gregory.
I'll show you him in a minute.
Here's what I want to do. I want to subject you to some images as I work through this very scripted approach to Mary Magdalene's dildo, sex, drugs, priestesses, and Jesus.
If I were to present this at a conference, that would be the title that I used.
Christianity develops in the cultural milieu of the ancient Mediterranean where it was directly influenced by numerous pagan mystery religions.
Greco-Roman priestesses, oracles, and magicians helped shape the image of the early church and ultimately assisted in defining Christian social identity.
The Gospels report that a number of women, including Mary Magdalene, assisted Jesus and his disciples with support derived from their own personal resources.
Mary, Joanna, and Susanna must have been fairly well-to-do patrons of the apostles.
The Gospels report that Mary possessed expensive drugs frequently used by ancient priestesses and at least one valuable dildo-shaped drug applicator called an alabasterin.
Like the Magi, the group of sorcerer priests who gave Jesus parents an undetermined amount of gold, along with two widely used pharmaceuticals, these women were instrumental in funding his ministry as a miraculous healer and exorcist.
Mary's use of the drug containing alabasterin has been a source of consternation for the church from its inception.
Pope Gregory the Great condemned Mary's use of sex drugs in the process of anointing Jesus.
He also attempted to identify the naked boy as a cousin.
This is from Homily 33 for those of you who want to read some dirty, dirty stuff.
Mary's use of the drug containing alabasterin has been a source of consternation.
Why? It's due to the fact that the very same drugs were used by women in orgiastic rites performed with the mystery religions that celebrated gods like Aphrodite, whose temples promoted ritual prostitution, and Bacchus, whose entheogenic wines were laced with vision-inducing botanicals and animal venoms.
Mary's drugs were also prescribed by midwives and physicians to facilitate sexual arousal and to induce abortion.
The use of these drugs in their distinctive paraphernalia implicate Mary Magdalene in the performance of necromantic rituals meant to manipulate demons and resurrect the dead.
So now you see kind of a work up of the psychological work up of this person who is a co-conspirator with Jesus.
That's what we're looking at her potentially as a co-conspirator, was she involved in this naked boy in the Garden of Gethsemane.
So that's a look at her personally and where she is. That's her profile. What are we going to look at now? We're going to look at a weapon.
We're going to look at a weapon. It's something she carries. The alabasterin.
The canonical gospels all record the same encounter of Jesus with Mary Magdalene at a meal at the home of Simon of Bethany.
Matthew's version succinctly states that Mary showed up with an expensive perfume carried in a unique ointment container that was readily recognizable.
Now when Jesus was in Bethany at the home of Simon the Lepper, a woman came to him with an alabaster vial, a very costly perfume, and she poured it on his head as he reclined at the table.
That's the new American standard right there. In antiquity the alabasterin was a short cylindrical stone container that held ointments applied to the genitals and anus.
It was shaped like a phallus, as you can see, and was roughly the same size as an erect male sexual organ.
Aristophanes famously mocked the alabasterin in his Lysus Strata, when one of the characters, a sexually frustrated man named Canesius, was offered an alabasterin by his wife Merini,
but refused to accept it on the grounds that he didn't need it because he already had his own, meaning his painfully obvious erection.
In other words, Aristophanes played to his audience by noting a similarity of the alabasterin and an erect penis.
In addition, Canesius, whose name means banger, he who bangs, was offered the dildo shaped container from his wife, whose name means lubricated or juicy, and her name happens to contain the linguistic root for the type of drug contained in the alabasterin, namely Muron.
Not only does Merini's name refer to a specific sex-dron, but she offers the very same substance to her husband and provides the famous dildo shaped container in which it was traditionally capped.
When Mary Magdalene brought the alabasterin to Jesus, it was no surprise that it contained very expensive ointment.
The luxurious nature of the Muron it contained was attested by the reaction of the apostles who vehemently complained that the ointment should have been sold in order to use funds to support and poor.
However, new testament translators, and here's the catch, are frequently tripped up when trying to translate the alabasterin passages.
Quote, here they are doing their best, while he was in Bethany at the home of Simon the Lepper and reclining at the table, there came a woman with an alabaster vial, a very costly perfume of purinard, and she broke the vial and poured it over his head.
Now, oftentimes the alabasterin is morphed by translators into a box rather than our dildo shaped vial, and Mary is described as breaking the container in order to open it, which makes no sense.
Scholars fudge the translation of the alabasterin passages because the alternative to an accurate translation is terrible.
What is the alternative?
When describing Mary's action on the alabasterin, gospel writers use a form of the verb tribo, which denotes rubbing as a means of preparing or applying a drug to either an alabasterin or human genitalia.
Rubbing drugs like this onto a surface in antiquity was a way of preparing augments for application.
The process would quote unquote warm the drug and therefore ready it for use, especially when applied to the penis, where its rigorous rubbing would facilitate its aphrodisiac qualities.
As Jeffrey Henderson notes in his work on obscene language in attic comedy, the verb tribane was used to rub or chafe sexual organs in preparation for intercourse.
Mary's rubbing of the oil on the alabasterin and on Jesus fits the ancient pharmacological context on the use of sex drugs. It fits it very well, and it's an actual step with the ancient methods.
Mary is said to have rubbed the oil onto several body parts of Jesus, including his head and his feet.
Biblical scholars may be correct in assuming a literal translation for head and feet, but it should be noted that those two specific body parts were also frequently used in Greek as euphemisms to connote male genitalia specifically.
And when the word tribo catch this, this is philology 900.
And when the verb tribo accompanies mooron in the context of feet, it conveys the idea of vigorous oil lubricated masturbation.
And the person bringing that to you is Jeffrey Henderson. Thank you, Jeffrey Henderson. Appreciate that. Good work. Good work.
Yes, congratulations. I like Jeffrey Henderson. He's a nice guy.
The Ancient World may also have read explicitly sexual references into the episode of Mary's use of the alabasterin.
For, Nonus wrote a summary of the Gospel of John in which he used explicitly sexual terminology to represent this scene.
Now, hold on. Hold on here. This is going to get rough, right? This is where we begin to see for the first time the reality, right?
Hold on. Challenging.
He said Mary used her sultry hair to wipe the thick body fluids off of Jesus as he burned with lust.
In fact, when Pope Gregory publicly affirmed that Mary was employing sex drugs on Jesus, he indirectly acknowledged that the church recognized the sexual nature of what she was doing.
Okay, so now we have a context. We have a cold context to what's to what's going on. We have a profile of Mary and we have a cold context of what's going on.
I want to, with the rest of our time, I'm going to limit myself because the information that I want to give you has to be processed and I think we're doing it best with a shorter format like this, right? Keep it interesting.
There's one quote that I want to bring up on the screen here and read to you and I want you to go ahead. We're going to talk about the Syrian Nard.
We can talk about what it was that was in it and in the drug compound that Mary's using and in doing so we have to turn to the pharmacological sources and the pharmacological sources.
We have the recipes for it, right? So we can actually talk to you about the formula and how it was adulterated. It was extremely expensive and it was oftentimes adulterated or cut and sold in the marketplace for high cash value.
You know, they're adding their baby powder to their cocaine, right? So, yeah, and so her drug, if you look at a lot of the different parts, a lot of different plants that they're including within this compound mixture, there are abortifations in it.
There are drugs that are used against venereal disease in it, which is nice because it fits the context of how it's being used very beautifully.
And there are references to the reason it's called what it's called. I mean, this, the mooron, you have to realize is so common that you can just say I'm going to a place to buy drugs and call it the mooron, right?
It's a catch all for this larger group of drugs that's so commonly used. And as diasquarties tells us, it's, for example, one of the opal balsamum is used as a for chafing in on the labia.
Labial chafing is treated with the drug. And so let's just take a look at the source. Let's take a look at diasquarties.
I just want you to see. We only have time for this tonight. Yeah, here it is. I'm going to read it.
It's the big quote, Chewy. There we go. Thank you very much.
Being one of the strongest heating drugs opal balsamum has profound effects on the body.
Using it to clean the vagina of young girls dedicated to the gods, it heats the area surrounding the cervix when applied with rose oil unguent.
It expels the fetus and associated fluids. And when rubbed in, it loosens inhibitions.
So you can see that the pharmacological and medical knowledge is so important to reconstructing our crime scene.
So when we're looking at that naked boy and we're trying to find him, why he's there and answer the question in the mystery of why Jesus is arrested with a naked boy, we have to go back to these clues that we've got to establish the context.
Why did this happen? What's the motive? What is the tool that is used in the process? Right?
Right. It's gorgeousness. And why are they all so drowsy during the whole affair? Anyway, we will continue. I would like to introduce you to this great Bakian blasphemy.
And it's exactly what it is, is blasphemy, extreme blasphemy, to know the history and to know what they were doing is dangerous.
When the chemical muse, which I wrote, was first reviewed by Brynmar classical review, it said, this book is dangerous.
It shouldn't be read on college campuses. You know, and there's a reason, there's a reason, refute the evidence, right?
Say, no, the evidence isn't there. Darryl Bach didn't, told me I was wasting my time, not because I had sources in actual history, but for another reason that he wasn't expressing.
And it's the same reason my, the head of my department during my dissertation defense expressed when she said, why do you want to say that the founders of Western civilization were using drugs?
Why do you want to talk about their drug use? Yeah. Yeah.
If it's reality, we need to talk about it. And as you can see from just diascorities, one pharmacologist, this is a reality.
And there is a reason that Jesus was arrested at 4am in a public park with a naked boy.
Now we'll welcome Rob. I summon Rob. Rob, would you mind coming into the conversation and just giving us a quick chat? Let's see, Rob, where's Rob?
Bring Rob into this.
Rob, do you have any, do you have any comments from the gallery?
I'm going to, I'm going to hush up here for a minute and I'm going to let you fill me in on all the details. Why don't you give me some of the goodies, what you've got?
You said Professor Rock was coming on. What? Okay, okay, I'm ready.
He did, didn't you see him? Didn't you see Professor Rock? He was there.
He said Professor, didn't that get me?
Yeah, I'm going to get you one of these times and I'm going to bring you in a clip.
Yeah.
And put, and frame you as you should be framed. What is the gallery, what is the congregation of Satan saying?
Right, bear with me. Wasn't ready. I had a list, but when you said Professor Rock's coming on, I burnt it.
Said a few ways and set the thing up. But I've got a digital version.
So first question, do you want the first question?
Yeah.
Please hit me with what you've got.
Could you ask a question? I've been digging into Macrobius and came across a ritual for Satan Alien where devotees would make wax figures of people saying cantations to Satan over them and then ritually destroy them in an offer to the goddess.
Guys.
Is this a reference to earlier human sacrifice? Are the gladiatorial games a ritual sacrifice to Satan?
And what is the connection between guys and Satan and why are they combined into the God's guys paper?
Fantastic. Fantastic group of questions. There's a lot in there.
So first of all, let me just say Macrobius, the fact that you're reading Macrobius, whoever is reading the Saturnalia out there, fantastic.
That's one of our major sources for ancient Roman religion.
And it's beautifully, beautifully detailed.
On the statues and human sacrifice. Oh, I want to say people are quick to jump into human sacrifice.
And we have to be in our area because we are necromancers, right?
And I have watched.
So will I say that specific reference is a reference to human sacrifice?
I don't know because that's me making a jump.
I don't think that evidence allows us to come to that conclusion.
Right. I think we have to be. Is that a piece that might build up to the bigger picture?
Certainly. Certainly. Right.
And that's what your thesis. Keep working on your thesis. Right.
So good. Good. Fantastic.
What about the human sacrifice, though?
I want to say and I want to add this.
We see this on the necromancer side and it's not necessarily what you would think.
There's this.
There's this electric science that exists in this liminal world.
Between life and death where you can take a freshly killed human being and you can reanimate that human being for a short period of time.
And I have watched witches do this with chemicals and with song and with ritual and with something that is gruesome where they pry open the head.
And this is why you see witches on battlefields. Everybody knows this, right?
Look at Luke and if you want to see these witches, they follow around the Roman army and then they mess with the bodies.
Right. They collect whatever goodies they need. Right.
Because remember human parts are full of chemically active, chemically active substances. Right.
Good biochemistry there.
So are they performing necromancy on these bodies?
I've seen a witches open a mouth and grab the tongue with their mouth and then with some kind of intonation they make.
They're able to vibrate the body, the voice, excuse me, of the person there.
They're able to put the air in the lungs and then move the air out while they're doing this to get the dead person to speak.
It's really, I mean, come on, man, you got to be serious.
If you're going in that deep, if you're in the cemetery with Saint Cyfrian and you've got purple venom drizzling out of your anus, you know that you're deep, deep, deep into the cult.
I mean, these are the kind of cults that Dr Bach doesn't want to talk about, right?
But they're there and he can hide his head.
By the way, of those 27 of those 27 invites to research contribution, I only got one positive.
And interestingly enough, it was from a woman who is theologian and she encouraged me to continue the research in the direction that I was working and that it was, you know, it was intriguing.
So the rest were very negative and we're saying, it's funny how many people will write you back and say, as they have on this site and say you are what you're talking about.
When we had Dr Rock on a few minutes ago, he was shunned for talking about mushrooms, shunned, which now doesn't seem that odd then.
It was a big deal.
He was shunned about talking about what are you going to do if you talk about drugs.
The first thing people are going to do and Brentmore classical review did this, they said this man obviously has a drug agenda and is probably a drug user himself.
I was like, are you kidding me?
Are you kidding me?
So for those of you who are worried, we are looking for that place as Satanists.
We're looking for that place where Bach can no longer use his reason because of using his reason means pulling everything down around him.
He's unwilling to do it, right?
That's not faith.
Faith allows you that space, even though it's an unreality.
Rob, any other questions?
Yeah, it's related to the last question, it's still Lord Snappy.
Can you do some perform something on screen for us, some live magic on the stream at some point?
I know you promised small part and we'd like it pushed.
We'd like to witness something and get some things done now.
Thank you for making that.
By the way, brilliant presentation.
Mute yourself.
You would like that, wouldn't you?
Because Rob, you're an evil and wicked generation that desires a sign you want me to.
It's not enough to show you the way.
It's not enough to perform in decent acts on ghosts.
It's not enough.
You want me to show you.
That's perfectly the way of Satan.
Nicely done, nicely done.
If this is all about reason, then I should be able to prove the magic.
Yes, I should be able to prove the magic.
I should be able to perform the sortes right in front of you.
I should be able to summon a legion of QAnon who are in a position where they shouldn't be able to comprehend the universe, but they do.
And they see that there is a storm coming and that there is a pedophilia behind.
Wait a minute, here's the trick.
Here's the trick.
You want some magic?
The trick is they're the ones promoting the pedophilia.
They're the ones whose master was the arch pedophile.
And when I say pedophile, I mean the name pedophile, the title that was given to the savior.
Wont that be funny?
QAnon will have to figure out they themselves.
And that's when you realize you're in prison, Rob.
When you ask for the magic, you reveal that you are in a prison.
Gorgeous.
Other questions?
That was Lord Snaffi asking.
We've got Old Boy and we're going to go to the language.
It's from previous episodes.
You mentioned the vowels aren't overly important.
Does this infer the early forms of Britain Greek was or came from the abjad alphabet?
This would make sense as neighbouring civilizations such as the Etruscans seem to use more runic style alphabet.
Another fascinating presentation.
Nice question.
They're all great questions.
What about the vowels?
All I can say with any sort of expertise is being a guy who reads this stuff every day for the last 30 years.
All I can tell you from my expertise is not what that original alphabet was.
It's nice though that you're looking at the Etruscan and asking those questions.
I can tell you that within the root system that is used in ancient Greek, within its root system, vowels are attunements.
They are an attempt to take that root concept and finally tune it so that it can be shown as distinguished as two different concepts that are spring from the same root.
That's what the vowels are there for.
They're there for attunement.
That's about the best, just from somebody who reads the stuff.
Once you understand with the STR root, for example,
once you understand where that Ionian form goes,
in the different dialects in Greek they use different vowels and different lengthenings.
You can say, Ied, it means kill or Ied, it means spare or have mercy on.
The vowels are doing something musical that is fine tuning.
I've often wondered within the magic when they're performing the incantations.
One of the best texts you can read is there's an addition of all, at least the ones that they found, fragments, incantations, both in Greek and in Latin.
In that there is something that the vowels are doing to attune.
Even in the PGM, you'll have where the incantation will stop from any Greek that we can translate and recognize.
It will bust into not just the woe case magikai, the magical voices,
but it will burst into this vowel thing where it goes I, I, you, I, Iow.
Iow is the, it's like a calf on the DNA.
It's like a message, a codon that tells you stop translating here.
This is where you cut the DNA.
It's very molecular that way. The vowels are doing that.
They're composing commands, entry commands and exit commands within the incantation, freaky stuff.
But remember, you know, they're all on drugs.
So, yeah, it's hard to, I guess you got to go there in order to understand.
Any other questions, Rob?
I mean, let's take one more question.
I don't want, I don't want to keep people forever because I'm targeting.
I'm targeting, you know, your attention because, you know.
Well, I'm going to move on because Nancy had asked about the inferences through the language and whether we can,
whether we take it the wrong way sometimes and make the wrong inference.
And she wondered about the gadfly and why isn't, why isn't it a hornet?
Why don't we refer to it as a hornet?
It was like to do with the references.
I'm going to move on because I want to try to get, I've got Chthonius.
And he wants to know if Dionysus, you think Dionysus is going to come back?
I like that question, I do, because I thought it himself, that do, in a sense.
And he actually thinks that Dionysus might have already come back in the form of Christ.
Isn't that nice?
Is, could you ask, could you, in order to answer that, could you ask what if he's here already?
And what if that, you know, like the guys at MIT are saying now, it's two universes,
you have two universes, it's two dimensions, they're placed over each other.
One is invisible to the other, but they take up the same space.
And you can measure the background radiation, right from these giant scopes and Antarctica, right?
Of where these two dimensions are interacting.
So, is Dionysus already here?
Now, if you mean is he coming back in a resurrection form?
He's coming back in a resurrection form.
You might be, now you're leaning over on the Gnostic set.
I'm not sure from where the question, which angle of question is going.
Do I want to see Dionysus back in his resurrected body?
When he comes, he'll be wearing a brazier, right?
He'll be wearing that holy golden, beautifully embroidered glane capturing nipple surrounding garment.
Yeah, and he's got it on in John.
It's there Dionysus is there in John, right?
There's a reason people listen, there's a reason that Plutarch says that the Jews are performing Bachic rights.
There's a reason for that.
If this mystery has made its way from the Bronze Age all the way down through this thing called Judaism, right?
Through the Bachic worship by the Greeks who spread all the way over to the Pillars of Heracles.
If we are able to follow this right all the way down, we can come up with the details of why Jesus is calling himself a savior.
And why he's talking about his blood.
And what is that stuff on his face that they say in the garden that is like great clotted blood?
What is that stuff doing there?
We don't just want you to tell us he's got a condition.
He's got halatosis.
We want to know why.
One of the things that I tried to bring you tonight didn't quite have enough time is the use of the antidotes.
The use of the antidotes.
We're really going to have to get into this as Satanists because this whole Christ Antichrist thing is a section of physics.
It's a reality that you have to be able to grasp in order to manipulate.
And how are they doing this very practically?
They're doing this with drugs.
Dotes and antidotes.
And for those of you, by the way, I just wanted to say for those of you who are looking at interested in things esoteric, gnostic,
and you're doing your shopping on YouTube, anytime you find somebody who says they're doing Greek,
they won't tell you they're Greek scholar.
They may say they're Greek scholar.
Anytime they throw in something about Greek, make sure that they've taken those steps that guys like Dr. Carl Ruck have taken.
Notice I didn't say Bach, right?
They've taken those reasoned step, that reasoned step.
They're able to say, OK, I'm going to look at this reference that talks about how you can make a young girl priestess more pliable and more ready to receive intercourse while protecting her from venereal disease
and preventing any sort of pregnancy because we're going to drink that stuff that she produces, right?
People don't want to go there.
Bach doesn't want to go there, right?
But this is the world we have to get to in order to get to Jesus's boy.
So Rob, I'm sorry tonight that Dr. Carl Ruck was not in the flesh.
He's only on video.
I'm sorry for that, but I'm going to be doing this more frequently.
I'm going to be bringing testimonies in.
You don't have to.
If you want to have a testimony, you don't have to shave your head like Rob and I do, right?
But if you're going to enter into mourning, which is why Mary Magdalene has the alabaster in the first place, if you're going to enter into that mourning for Adonis, then you need to shave or present yourself publicly for intercourse.
Either of those will do.
I've had people ask me what about, I don't want to shave my head.
Well, there's an option, right?
In mourning for Adonis, you can go and you can enter into that sphere, right?
You can go to the Temple of Aphrodite, right?
You can offer yourself and don't worry.
They will give you the drugs that will make sure, oh, it's the Temple of Prostitution, right?
That alabaster that Mary is carrying and nobody sees the reality because you've been trained on fairy tales.
I'm going to end with that anger.
I'm going to end with that anger because I don't want to keep you guys.
You've given me already too much of your time.
Rob, thank you tonight.
Thank you tonight.
Thank you.
Thanks to the gallery.
Thanks for the questions.
We have 10 questions to go through.
So keep the questions coming and I'll do my best to get them in.
I will.
I'll try my very best.
I loved the presentation.
I really did.
I wasn't watching the chat so much.
I was really into the presentation.
I loved it.
It was fantastic.
I've got to say.
Okay, Rob, if you want to present because there are so many questions at Bible study, if you want to throw some of those questions out at Bible study when we meet on Wednesdays, please do that or give them to me.
Send me the questions and I'll keep addressing these questions because your questions help me to understand how I am doing with the material, whether or not you're getting it.
We're all detectives.
We're all figuring out what this naked kid is doing there.
Right.
That's all that matters.
So your questions are important.
Hail Satan and have a good.
Have a good sabbat.
Y Llywodraeth Cymru.
