Hold on
I'm with my DST
Everything I see is cream
Straight from the bang
Of the dragon
The tracks bump
It is the thing
Athena knows my slang
In the dark harbor
The drugs weigh a ton
Kachanga Lane
Creed Moore hit the mark
Bang bang
We're here to save the children
The museum we're building
Anti-Christ prescription
Dragon venom
Welcome back to Lady Babylon
This is Initiating Apocalypse
Now, I just want to start
With a warning
I want to start with a warning
This is going to go somewhere
Historically with Jesus
That you may not be able
To recover from
You guys know that you want it
You want the deep stuff
You want that underbelly
You want those deep dark secrets
That Jesus Christ is keeping
You want them
I know you do
We're going to find them tonight
We're going to find them tonight
And I'm going to surprise you
Because we're going
To use the voice
I am going to unlock for you
The prophecies
So that you can see them
It's much better
You know what we're doing
We're going in for a drug night
We're going in for a night
Where we are going to come back from it
Happy to be alive
We're going to be reborn
I'm taking you back there
Are you ready?
They're going to serve things up right away
But in good traditional
Lady Babylon style
I'm going to purify the temple
And who would we need
If we're going to go to the core of Christianity
Who do we need
To purify this place?
We need the mother of Bacchus
Hit it, Chewie
We're going in for a night
Where we are going to come back from it
Happy to be alive
We're going in for a night
Where we are going to come back from it
Happy to be alive
We're going in for a night
Where we are going to come back from it
Happy to be alive
We're going in for a night
Where we are going to come back from it
Happy to be alive
We're going in for a night
Where we are going to come back from it
Happy to be alive
We're going in for a night
Where we are going to come back from it
Happy to be alive
We're going in for a night
Where we are going to come back from it
Happy to be alive
We're going in for a night
Where we are going to come back from it
Happy to be alive
His Holy H�를
A thousand years
before Christianity
Seven hundred years
before Judaism
People followed
the mystery of the Wanasa
This is what
we bring to you tonight
And it's our privilege Chewie. Thank you. Thank you for working the night shift. I appreciate it
I'm gonna bring up a comment. I want to bring to your attention before I flash
The revelation before you I want to bring up this comment Chewie
Check this out say ten at congregation. Let's read. This is a Greek
This is from Angie by the way, and this is the best comment
I have seen in a long time because I am always telling you people
And you don't know you don't know I could be pulling some kind of BS out of my hat
But I'm not I told you modern Greek is different from ancient Greek
Modern Greek is different from ancient Greek people give me a hard time for that because they don't understand
Finally, who did we find we found Angie? That's right Angie
And she says as a Greek who knows how to speak read and write modern Greek
I have to say ancient Greek is not the same
It's not the same
Thank you Angie
Bravo
Bravo now what she continues on
You can basically understand ancient Greek a little if you've had modern Greek you can understand it a little bit
Yes, that's why
Leave it up there. That's why I went to graduate school with a couple of modern Greeks
Every Greek will tell you oh, yes. Oh
Yes modern Greek it's part of our ancient Greek. It's part of our heritage some modern Greeks will tell you oh
I can teach you ancient Greek
And they can't
The ones that wanted to learn ancient Greek when I was going to university
Came from Greece to Wisconsin. Can you believe that? I'm going I'm a I'm a Greek
And I'm gonna go learn ancient Greek in Wisconsin sounds funny. Doesn't it? Oh my god. That's how it works
Ancient Greek and modern Greek are not the same thing, but tell me Angie keep talking please please
I'm literally
Having a panic attack. Oh god that makes me feel bad. Don't
Dr. Oman is so intelligent that it's very hard to absorb
Especially because I'm Greek Orthodox Angie
I want to take those Greek Orthodox robes and I want to strip you of them and
I want the world to see
What's in your jeans? Oh
God I want to bring that out Angie
Good for you. Thank you for bringing that comment
I think it's important for people to see that everyone's well because when I started talking about Hebrew with its tiny duck
98,000 word vocabulary. Oh god
People never trust me
People never trust me. So it's nice. Thank you
Let's open up open up this battlefield. Where are we going tonight to a hit the hit the images that caused the
Implanting please
Fantastic as we're going along. It's very important. You pay attention
There's gonna be things that I'm shooting into your brain. Here is the apocalypse 1610. Are you ready?
What happened get off the ship everybody? We just got back in time now
We're at a party. We're at a party and what's happening, baby? The rights the rights. Are you ready?
This is from apocalypse 1610. I'm so happy
Kai Ho Pemptos. Who's that guy? Oh, he's one of those angels
What's he doing? He's pouring out a bowl
And what's where's he pouring it out? He's pouring it out on the throne of the beast
Wait a minute you say
Oh
What I've seen this pictured and I've seen these half-monster Camaro
crazy things
Take all of that knowledge and flush it into the toilet
We're just gonna go see what the text says. We're gonna be as literal as we possibly can
There's no way to make a mistake. Are you ready everybody here? We are the guy came in the room he poured
Right, he poured out this fee ally this special bowl. We'd make drugs in those bowls
Wait, what?
Did I not explain to you that you would be getting even more drugs tonight. Oh
This dude
Who takes it what happens to him? He goes dark. That's what he says his kingdom
becomes dark and
What happens he chooses tongue in pain, baby
Have you ever seen him administer this stuff right dude comes in it starts working and these
These freaks, that's all you can call them at that point because all they're doing is a writhing in pain
Dude, why do you think you have to wait a minute? We got to tie this guy down for a minute, right?
Remember the stuff that they're giving you I told you last time we were here when you walk in the door
Realize you're gonna get hit with drugs
Okay, don't tell me I didn't warn you you gotta know this stuff. Oh
Love it. Go back to that go back to that quote. Yeah, and what's gonna happen?
They're gonna chew their tongues because that's the pain that they're in that's the pain that they're in people
Look at this fee ally just so you can trust me fee ally
What is it a bowl or a pan sauce pan for boiling liquids cool?
But give me the next one. How else is it used? You know me? I'm always talking medicine. It's used for
Anguents. Oh, those are sexy
Oh
Those anguents what which anguents do we have here listed in the Greek? The oh this mooron
the what
That really sweet smelling sex drug
Yeah, do you remember the one that the prostitutes had what was her name?
Mary
Mary yes, they called her the Magdal
Oh
It's one of their Scythian titles. Do you know what it means?
It means she who practices the magic
I don't want to meet that person
There's a reason that Jesus Christ hung around with prostitutes
And I thank you it'll become obvious as we go into the prophecy and fulfill that beastly prophecy
Are you ready? I'm giving you an extra one congregation tonight because you deserve it. I'm gonna let you unfold
what
Christians for
Centuries have tried and vain to unfold and why did they fail?
Why did they fail?
ignorance
Ignorance
Yeah, isn't that amazing?
Don't tell me you read Greek
Don't tell me you do if you don't know those sources
You've got no history and you're you're you're ripe for the duping
Let's go to the sources then big guy put your sources where your mouth is
Here we go. What kind of world are you gonna inherit when you drink this stuff that that angel poured out?
You're gonna enter this world the world of the eclipse, right?
Just stand back for a minute and think about what is going on here
You have entered a right where they are administering drugs
They're causing you to enter places that they call the eclipse. I
Have a feeling when we come back from this we may be a little bit different
Your your religions are coming from drugs. It's fantastic. It's fantastic. Oh my god, let's trade it to go up
Let's find it
Chewy take it easy man. We almost hit that thing
Okay, you bring back the source. Okay, we're up. Here we go. Here's the big one people
He do you mean this is his weapon tonight? Yes now
I'm going to translate this as lucidly as I possibly can for you
And then we're gonna look at a couple of words, but I want you to know this is the great piece of the revelation
13
Okay, oh
God, tell me what happened big number 13 by the way
Before we
Get to the climax of this. I know it's early, but before we get to the climax
I want to say we had over
1300 people live in Greek I
Am fairly certain that that breaks an all-time record
Yeah, I don't know if there's 1300
Great graduate students in this country. I don't know in the States. I don't know maybe there are maybe there's more than that
but
That was fantastic. I gave that to the devil and he was like, are you sure and 13? I was like, yeah
It was over 1300. He's like, what'd you do? I said, I just fed him a great
And he's like no you got something else. I was like, well, you know, I got some dope hidden in it
You know what I mean? I put some dope in it. He's like you
Yeah, isn't that great? I'm bringing you that dope. Are you ready?
Nobody is going to give you what I am about to give you
All right, do we have the moon on?
Yeah, tell them to put the moon on on
Are you ready give it boom and what's happening and I saw
Coming out of the water
rising once again
Was the beast
And he had
Ten horns
Wait, he had ten horns. Are you drawing a picture of this? Somebody's in the background like
Ride we get all of that. No, stop. Stop. Stop. Stop. Stop. Please turn on the box
Can somebody turn on the box get that look get that little guy to turn on the box. Come here
Come here, Jeffrey. Where's my Anglo-Saxon boy?
Here's what we got to do Jeff
No, I think his name was Fred. Does it matter. Do you name your eunuchs?
Of course you don't
Let's go lefty and righty. That's usually what they're called
I see what happens here. What is the beast that is coming out? He's got those ten horns
Now let's turn on your receivers for the box
Right. What are those horns that we just saw last time?
Those horns are the antidotes
Hmm. Yeah, directly. Okay. That makes sense of why
that
Therion or Theriac
that compound
Antichristic
Antidote to the Thanasee more those death-inducing drugs
Yeah, that beast
That Theriac is carrying your survival. So as we're sitting here going through this in the
angels
Those angels they're pouring out those
drugs for us
Right, this is where you're gonna go in the right
Okay, so hold on. Don't wait. It gets weird. It gets weird keep
Let's go find the the next quote there. Boom. Yeah, here we go
And what happens that beast also has those seven heads? What are those heads?
They're the prominent
singular
ingredients that are used in
The death inducer
This is a concoction or a poma that will lay you out
It will kill you
But don't worry remember what Jesus said I'll show you
You'll pick up those
Death inducing potions and you won't die. They won't hurt you
Why?
Because they're using within the mystery. They're using the drugs that induce death
Combined with the beast that will bring you back
the beast bears up the cup of
Lady Babylon
Okay, are you ready? We're getting deeper and deeper into that prophecy and
What I'm fulfilling for you tonight is I am unsealing these works. Oh
God, can you believe the devil gave me that I was like, are you sure and he was like dude
You know you earned it
Right. How did I earn it? One of the things I didn't do is I didn't monetize. Oh
And I didn't monetize Lady Babylon
Yeah
Yeah, people are saying I had a comment. I thought this was great. This is illustrative of
Christianity
This is why Julian said Christianity will overthrow classical civilization and he was right
This is one of the reasons is one of the reasons they burn those libraries down
Yeah, because they don't
know
What the texts say?
Isn't that funny? It's like you hang yourself
So we're here Satanic congregation to bring those texts to them and to show them give it to me again
I want some
Drugs and witchery Jesus show me all your drugs your drugs Jesus
What do we have here? Oh God those seven principal drugs? You know what they they have
they have
names
they have names and
What kind of names do they have they have names of
blasphemy
Names of blasphemy
Remember we talked about the power is always in the name
Are you ready? Okay, wait, it's gonna get good. It's gonna get good
Okay, and this antidote this theriac
Yeah, it had the form of
Leopard
It had the feet of a bear
And the mouth of a lion
Did you say lions tigers and bears? Oh my no
I said leopards
you know
and lions and
Bears oh
God
Jesus Christ God
What are you doing? I just sat down and we just got jacked in with whatever it was that angelic dude
Gave us and by the way remember it's always those sons of God who were doing all of this drug stuff
Oh, you wouldn't have the mystery without it. Oh
Here he is we got jacked in and you know what now we're seeing some weird images. Did you say leopard with bears fate?
Jaws like a lion. Yeah. Yeah, I did and why did you do that because this is pocket and who is that leopard?
That's the leopard that bears up Dionysus
That's a leopard that bears up Dionysus and who is that bear?
That's the bear that guards our bears and Libya
Who are there's who are those bears? Oh, I'm sorry
Once a year we go watch a group of
nine to twelve year old girls get naked in an arena and
The last one conscious
Gets the priesthood
Yeah
Those bears they call them bears. Do you want to know why?
Test it if you want test it if you want to where's all that stuff coming from it's that hunting clan stuff
Right. Oh god. This is Diana. Oh god. It has Diana all over it
Do you know who makes the best teenagers the ones that can kill all the other ones?
Isn't that strange
Yeah, well, that's the context that we're in
So let's go back to our
Bacchic animals. Who's the lion there for? What's the lion?
We've got lions people. Please remember please when I say we're in a Bacchic ritual remember
Rhea is the nurse of
Bacchus and what does she do? What does she do? What do you think she does?
She rears him and teaches him everything
Isn't that cool and what's so special about real? I don't know
She's the flow of the universe. They call her but she's got lions, man
She's got lions and if you ever go to see Rhea
You're gonna end up with it sitting in front of lions and do you know how intimidating that is?
If she were Cersei she would then cut off your genitalia
Yeah, just your testicles, you know, because the other thing can be used
Yes, I love it. It's gorgeous. Isn't it? Let's go. Let's go to the next the source
Did you find there's and finally what happens what happens to this Bacchic leopard
bearing up
Bacchus what happens?
the dragon
gave to him
the power
He gave him the throne and
He gave him that great exsusia
that efficacy
that ability to bring the salvation
Am I in the book of the apocalypse? Yeah, yeah the Therion
the beast
is
the antidote
to the death inducer
Jesus is actively involved in this cult
There's only two times he ever gets angry
One when he's fighting with other lace days other traffickers and two
When somebody turns on them, I want to group the young boys get awfully upset
because he's what
We'll find out in a second
Let's keep going boom next one. I mean end of this prophecy. Here we go
Oh, and what happens the dragon? What does this say? It says that look with dragon gave the power
Right and the throne on you know what the throne on is. That's that position that the pharma con takes
Sit on the throne
You have the power when you sit on the throne
Yeah, Polo Thronos is many drugs
Yeah throne drug
Fantastic, they're looking at it from how the drug functions, right? Boom. It's like I don't know what you'd call it
Some kind of quantum stuff. I know these brainiacs. I never understand it completely and look at verse three
And what else one of the heads one of the heads was dead
One of the heads was dead
one of those principles brought death and
In the midst of this what happened the plague of death
Was healed
The person the person had the death inducer and came back
Do you know how incredible this is?
We are right in the mystery
We are right in the mystery. What do the people do the people were astonished
Everybody was astonished and
What did they do they gave the proper honor to the dragon?
Why why?
Because he endowed that drug
With the cure
He's brought you back to life from the state of death. That's why they bowed to the snake
And what'd they say nothing's more powerful, baby
Nothing is more powerful. I saw that dude dropped into death and
Resurrected and we came back. He said I saw all sorts of stuff
And he's a new creation
He's become born again
Wow
Did you know you could do that with a child?
Did you know you could do that with a child does that bother anyone?
Let's see
Go give me the next one. This is where we're gonna take a turn for the south people hold on hold on
No, we're done. Go next one. Boom. I just wanted you to see the definition of exosia. That's okay
That's not you can slow that down later and take a look at it
Another guy's coming in the room. Okay another angel's coming in the room. He's pouring out that drug container
And what is he doing? He's pouring at a stain gain now the Christians will always
The monist I should say we'll always portray this as you know, the angel pouring out this file onto the earth
Because that's what it says earth
But if anybody's paying attention to any other literature
Earth are a way of talking about drugs the Limnian earth that I just spoke about two weeks ago
What do you think they call it the earth? What is Galen doing?
He's going to limb us to get these pills to give you
Right as a manner of salvation. It's your health
It's your what we would call your mental health your physical health
Give me some urine a little taste of it and I can tell you what you need
take this pill
dissolve it and wine or
Stick it into your rectum
Yeah
Okay, that's the world you're in so if you're a little bit squeamish get ready because we're gonna shift it down
We're really go against the grain. Are you ready?
boom
First guy comes out he pours out that vial into the earth
What do they do with that combination of the earth like the Limnian earth?
It provides a base for a plaster
Provides a base for a plaster and all of these plasters have magical names
Isn't that nice the semen of Helios who who what do you need? I need the semen of Helios
I need the Sunseed, baby
What is that called? It's not
It's not perfume
Here we go, and what happens he's pouring it out what happens. Oh, no, I
Have a Hellkos cocoon. What's that? Did somebody burn you?
This did you have an ex do you have an exposed spot? That's
Did somebody burn you
Who me who me who who's being burned you idiot? You're the one with the haragma. You're the one with the
tattoos
the tattoos oh
God
The Theriac tattoo. Do you know what you can do you can put a tattoo
You can take a pigment right remember the burning purple is a pigment and I can put it into my skin and when I need it
I can cut myself. I
can cut myself
What have we done now
We have taken that poison and
and
The Theriac is keeping us from dying
We're in that
Visionary mode. We're transiting
Right, that's why they say the devil can fly
right check out who's got
This the sickle that's what we need to do who what are we putting into our eyes remember people
We've got that white chalk on our face to prevent the burning and then we use that stuff in our eyes that purple in our
Eyes well, it turns out at this particular right tonight
You and I have tattoos that we will cut
That we will cut those are the marks of
That beast Theriac that antidote that you and I are using
Marcus Aurelius could have been
Tattooed this way. Where do you want me to put it? You know, it's got to go somewhere
Yeah, all we got to do is burn a little spot a little spot
You know, and then we'll take that burn spot and we'll medicate it
And you will get so high and every time every time I pass you
I'm gonna slap that spot wherever it is
Wherever it is on your body. I'm gonna slap it with that plaster
Yeah, and I'm gonna keep doing that. I'm gonna lace this
Yeah, it's control the ride is
fabulous control
Yeah, well people think meditation does something
Hey, sorry if I just offended every Buddhist in the court, but
Yeah, yeah, no, we're a step beyond that, you know what I mean?
We're a step beyond let's keep going. Let's keep going to the tax
We're gonna pull Jesus and all we're gonna find out where he's been hiding right and
Yep, that's fine. Go
Look, this is that Helcos that wound right and notice please notice Galen is in there
Please good health to everyone
Look, it's a wound or a sore and ulcer, but look what they the festering bite of a serpent wait a minute
There's an association with this word and the wounding of a serpent. Yeah, wait, it gets it's gets worse keep going
boom
Mmm your haragma now you people are gonna say and they didn't have anything to do with drugs
You know what this is this is the Medusa you boneheads are you ready haragma
What does it mean any mark engraved and printed or branded and then what's the first thing you see in Greek?
Come here, Dan. Come here. Come here, Dan the
Bible Club called Dan and wants wants you to know
Snack up on him. Are you ready for the stand doesn't read these tags so he doesn't know what does the Greek say leave Dan alone?
Yes
Watch this
Haragma a heat nice. That's what the first Greek says right there, right? I'll say one more time
Haragma a heat nice and what is that? That is the mark of the Viper
God it's bite or it's sting give me another one give me another one
What am I doing with my cult buddies in antiquity with the Christ? What am I doing? Well at this point?
I'm hearing the Thusias stadion
Talking to me. You're watch. This is the book of the apocalypse people
I am sitting here, and I am listening to the Thusias
Therion, and it's telling me
It's telling me. Oh God. Oh my day
True and just are your judgments
Panto Krator
Yeah, that's what they translate as almighty
Right, I think it's a garbage translation
Right because it's just like a literal rendition. It's a title the Panto Krator is the
Hermes is given this title
Yeah, okay, so I think it's a little bit off. I think it's a little bit off
But where are we getting people we're getting those true judgments, and we're getting those real
Justices through what it's talking to us the Thusias stadion is done. Did anybody knows what is this thing?
It's a piece of furniture
Wait, what?
Yeah, it's the thing Moses set up
You know it's a it's a hippies
Cloud fest you got to put ropes on people when they're in in this place because it's so fumigated
They may pass out right
Right. We're with the right people and this device talks. Wait a minute the Thusias stadion is what?
Moses Musaeus the fictional character from the third century based on Musaeus called Moses. It's what he sets up
Yeah, you would say oh, it's the tabernacle
It's talking ladies of frustration it's talking to us
Oh
God these people are way right. We're getting out there wait. We're gonna throw in the kids. Oh, no
Right, should you bring kids this kind of right? Oh, no give me the next one. She always can't choose flagging me
Like oh, yeah, I'm gonna blast a few people with this thing tonight. Okay. Are you ready?
What are you doing in the Thusias stadion? You're sacrificing and when you see that definition
Sacrificing and you and I think oh, yeah
Moses in the movie in Charlton Heston, right? Oh, yeah, shut up. No, that's BS
Look in the Greek in the third line down. It says Thusias stadion toy. Say oh, okay, buck. Yeah, wait, right
What is the verb to Thusias? Oh, what is it it doing?
Yeah, it is an action that is coupled with acting
Bacchic
Bacchic
Huh Jesus
Jesus Christ Jesus Christ in a public park
Revelation 1618 another one we got more angels and more drugs, baby
And what are they doing a fourth one comes out and he's fialing he's pouring out his drugs again
Where's he pouring him epitone helium? Wait, wait
What into the sun
Right, and you'll see it pictures again
Sun with friggin, you know radiance like a kid in kindergarten draws or something
You know at least I did, you know the sun and angel porna you idiots
What are you doing?
What are you doing?
Hmm
Grab some of that
Grab some of that seed of the Sun
Yeah, grab some of that and bring that in
What are we gonna do with Jesus's blood and it was given it was given to that
Drug to burn the men in fire to burn the people using it
You know what we do after we come in with this bowl we drink this stuff
And it causes us to go to a place that is very very painful
I've already been going a little bit nuts anyway and chew in my tongue
Isn't that a great symptom?
Can you see imagine you walk into a right?
That's a mystery right like the origin of judeism and christianity and islam
And you walk in because remember the muslims they say worship Bacchus in an aphrodite
Right not the muslims the the people living in arabia who were the ancestors of the muslims
Right that that they were worshiping Bacchus right they're doing the same thing
They're doing the exact same thing in a satanian right which linguistically is satan
When the row and the diagrama drop as they do
I love it
Thank you. Emmett Bennett for an education in mycenaean greek
It allows us to look at the drugs that jesus and his
Clan are using his group are using okay. Give me the next one
I'm not going to rush people because this is going to this is going to blow your mind a little bit at least it does mine
It does mine. So we're pouring out and we're causing that fire
Right and what's going to happen? Let's pull up a chorus as we're entering. You know, we all came
We all saw what was going to happen. We're all on those
The three that I showed you at least that they gave you
Right and now we're entering this phase where what happens
We're going to bring out a chorus and we're going to say what kind of chorus is this is the chorus now
This is from the frogs
This is from the frogs
And this chorus of frogs is very famously
Going to lead us to the rites
And you know
Dionysus
he sees
he sees
one of the
chorus members and
For a moment her garment comes a little bit loose and something
Pops out that he sees and he says what a pleasant
budding grape
This is a part of the chorus that is leading us to the rites
Right, this is a part of the chorus and what is the chorus pointing to gives that chorus again
Chewie look at the second line the second word in so dead on
Give me the next one
There's who are they tell who were the who were the girls singing about they're singing about the savior
Wait a minute. They're singing about jesus christ
No
They're singing about a woman who was the original
savior
In the mystery
You see jesus is just operating within a very very specific mystery
He's bringing salvation. He's been hanging out with the baptist with the penis shaped cups that we try and probably pay him
You know, he's following a very specific way
Some children are made show were made eunuchs for the kingdom of heaven
right
When you enter the dark kingdom
via the beast
You don't come back the same
Yeah, it hurts says jesus. I'm so thirsty
I'm in agony
It hurts. Are you there? Are you there yet? Don't worry?
Don't worry. They designed this thing so that you'll come out the other end
Give us and give us that uh reference again. I just want to make sure I hit all of it
Um, yeah, uh, look, what is the chorus going to tell us they're going to tell us about day mater
right now this is
You know demeter right she is part of the this is why we all came for the
Resurrection of her daughter
Wait a minute this thing is about resurrections. Yeah, and that word in there
Anasa the word for demeter that is an old old old mycenae and now now we're at
um somewhere 2000 years before
Christianity and
1700 years before Judaism
Who are we following within this right? We're following the wanasa
There's a diagram of there. What is she doing? She's sum parastate. Now those of you who say what's so special about greek?
This is a perfect example
right sum parastate is a word that
Aristophanes is making up
Yeah, it's a word that he's making up the power of ancient greek
What really makes it different from modern greek? What really makes it different from english and french and italian?
right, what really makes it different
Is the ability to form new concepts?
Isn't that great? What if you were given a set of tools that with your mind you could create?
Things anew you could pull out of the air of reality in verbal form
Nobody else is doing the same thing as you
God
God, that's the secret. Give me the next one. Uh, we love you. You're so sexy mama greek
I love this. I love this. Um, and he's telling you right here. It is here. It is. Okay. Give us the next one
boom
Brekekeke coax coax brekekeke coax
Um
Dionysus, uh, what's saying that by the way the frogs now wait a minute. I'm bringing you frogs and I'm not going to bring you
the, uh
um
I'm not going to bring you those frogs without pulling them right out of the mouth of
Christianity
Right out of the mouth of the apocalypse because you say hey look
Um, I understand you're talking about drugs and these texts you're talking about altered states
I understand that mental states altered mental states and physical
Yeah, but this whole thing inspiration by the means of demons. This is not part of christianity. Oh contraire
Let's see. Let's see what happens. Give me the next one. Bacchus. Give me some something inspiring
Go
Boom and I saw from the mouth of the dragon and from the mouth of the beast
And from the mouth of the false prophet. I saw three
a cathartic spirits
Those dirty mystery spirits
You know what i'm talking about
You saw it
You saw it popped right out
You
Welcome frogs
Frogs, you mean that's the bible passage and it's talking about those demonic spirits. Yes, it is
Why because jesus is a
Bakant
It is not that the text is written to reflect bachic literature
It is that jesus is acting within the bachic rites
That spirit
of the frog
Brecca cacac coax coax
Brecca cacac coax
That is what you
Will be hearing when you listen to the prophecy
Is anybody else is under the influence
As these people
My god, man
The visionary stuff is crazy. We're still going to bring in the children. Let's just bring him in
Jesus come here. Jesus. I'm sorry. I gotta show them the kids tonight
You hold it jesus holds his tongue well
He must be used to that
It's a roman thing. Let's go. You know why they dislike those
Lace days so much, right? Right, you know why they disliked the lace die
Crucifying a man because about a hundred years
No, not that long, but within a century before
Jesus is walking around as a lace days or at least he's denying that he's a lace days and mark
About a hundred years before that within that century
Julius Caesar
He got abducted and he was so mad at those friggin people. He went back and he
Insisted that they all be crucified
Because that is the only fitting punishment. Um that cross people
Is not
for a common thief
or a common criminal
That cross is for people who crowds
Come together and say this dude
Crucify
Yeah
It was that ultimate
It was that ultimate punishment every time you see see we as a society under the influence of christianity
Have tried to make that cross a place where the innocent are placed
Right, this is a place of torture
Right the romans the evil romans invented it
Right
It's very fairy tale-ish, but the fact is that's what Caesar did he see had him crucified because he wanted him to suffer
And it was heinous enough what the what pirates do
To to get him crucified
Traffickers, baby human traffickers. Does anybody have any sympathy? Is there a book anywhere?
That's like my beloved human trafficking husband
No, there's a good reason for that
Now let's watch jesus get all touchy-feely. Let's go. Let's go. Oh god. What is he uncovering?
What is he uncovering?
Dionysus speak. Tell me how you feel
Under the influence he says ego de fluk dinas gejo. What do you have?
You got those marks
You got those engagements
You got those wounds of the viper
And what else do you?
Dionysus what what's happening?
Something are you ready people? I'm translating this directly. I'm the voice of Dionysus
I got the marks of the viper and something is drooling out of my buttocks
Proctos
Proctos I used to laugh with my greek buddy
Um, whenever this came across this word. I don't know why you get you know proctology and stuff like that
Right, it's kind of funny. I don't know. Um, anyway, he's got some sweat coming out of it
You remember the stuff that was on jesus's face?
That's how this is described
But it's coming out of barcus's rectum
And what does he say? He starts to say this and he gets in a room. He said oh, and i'm popping up
My little guy's gonna sit up and he's gonna say something
Why?
Because barcus is under the influence
He has the marks for the administration of the drugs
He's got
The potion that's oozing out of his rectum
and
He's got that
satirical
response that satiriasis
Hmm
Let's see what happens. Let's see what happens. Thank you. Thank you Dionysus. That's great. I loved it
I loved it. It was nice. Give me the next one. Um, I just want you to see that these little blisters that are made
Made by these burns, right?
Notice that they can be caused by those bites
Right, these are you know, the hypocrites talk about little postules
and basically little injured areas that you're going to get some kind of infection or
Um, something more symptomatic of what we think is you know, could be something like smallpox or something like that
They'll use that word in those different contexts. You have to be careful
Um, sometimes you can assume the greek's gonna say something and you'll find out. Oh, no, that's not how they're using it in the century
And you're like, oh, okay. Got a reform go back, right?
But you got to read a lot to get to that point. Give me the one after the postule
Bum
Bum botracoi frog speak to us. What do the frogs say?
Listen, we're sitting here after our three drinks or four or five
I don't remember there was a fifth guy that came in so we've got to have had a lot by now
And what are the frogs saying? What are the frogs saying? They're saying, listen, you're such a
You're just going around doing everything
Investigating everything doing everything
Sit down and shut up. You know who I am
I'm the one who the muses
establish
I'm the one who the muses establish
I'm the one that pan
with the horn
with the antidote
Who sports around
dances around plays around amorously
Right with his reed
I know I do you know also apollo
It says apollo is here too. And what does he do?
Yeah, he's
He's so happy. Maybe that was the one. I think that was the one that was he invented. Yeah, I think I just switched him
But I think this is the one that he's he invented
Um, uh, and what does that mean? It means to make exceptionally happy
Right. He's he's joyous. And why is that because the reed right the one that sits on the lyre?
He shares apollo has a share of that read
Right that read. What is he talking about? Oh, it's part of the instrument
the lyre
It's got to read some kind of baseball
Yeah, and it's it's a read that they use
Yeah, he's involved
He's involved. Thank you. Thank you frogs or those the spirits. Oh
That makes me it's amazing frog talk
Uh, give me give me the next one. I want to show you people just so you know the donox
What is that donox? It's that reed shaking in the wind. Wait, this is starting to sound familiar
It's a bed of reeds. What what kind of anthropology do we have?
It's also the shaft of an arrow or a shepherds pipe or a fishing rod
Right or the bridge of a lyre
These are the kind of things that you have to take into consideration if you want to understand ancient cult
You have to understand it has basic building blocks
And those basic building blocks are reflected in christian mystery
Christian mystery is the same. Where's creepy jesus? Bring him up. It's the next one. I think
Bring him in. This is the jesus who likes this. Let's go. No under the lyre. That's okay. Give me the next one. Boom
Um here jesus. Tell me what you want
jesus
I want you to
I want you to feast on my flesh
And I want you to drink my
And I'll be in you and you'll be in me
Oh
Okay, well, wait a minute
Seriously long story short that trogo up front. It's not the word for eat. It's usually translated as eat
But it's a you it's a word that's used to pasture
I want you to pasture on me
Wait on your flesh. Yep
I want you to pasture off my flesh and drink my hyma now the origin
of hyma
Is vital essence which can be blood
And it can be semen
All right, remember we're into the fluids. I showed you the doctors. I showed you the
sweat and what sweat does
Hmm, if you don't know
You haven't been there
We're talking remember people. It's not odd
These societies are tasting urine for the sake of diagnosis
It's not odd for a suggestion of armpit licking during coitus to be any kind of you know
Thing but as you say what wait what?
Yeah, I don't know. It's the thing. It's got some chemicals in it. You know, I mean, I don't know if you haven't been there don't
Don't take the train hit me with the next one. Let's do it. Okay
Look
What what is this? This is the pasturing. We'll skip through this. Let's just get to the point
What is the sarks the flesh jesus?
What are you giving me?
brah the flesh
Is the real fodder
and the blood
Is the real potion
All right, the blood of jesus is the real potion
I want the blood of jesus. I want the blood. Why is his blood special?
This dude is a walking drug factory
This dude is high all the time
This dude is casting out demons and healing
This dude is part of the mystery
That's why spit in my mouth jesus. Give me some of your sweat. I'll drink your blood, baby
Give me the next one. Oh, there it is. There's the drink
Oh god, it's just a beverage. You're a draft, but wait a minute. What are we talking about hyma at the bottom again?
Oh god, what are these people doing?
Seriously, you're gonna give all the vampire enthusiasts some something to think about. Yeah
Here it is. Where's that?
Where's that thing that you're gonna give to us jesus? He's giving us his meat. He says
I'm jesus christ little boy, and I'm giving you my meat
That's what it says
This is what he's saying my process
Do you want some of my essence? You know what they call the semen?
They call it the love of god
Oh
My god, you perverts you perverts. What have you done to the mystery?
What have you done?
He was that canitis with jesus
Was that canitis with jesus when he was arrested in a public park at 4 a.m. Scramon
I am not a child trafficker and standing next to him is a naked kid with a bandage on his
private parts
Through which jesus
Was consuming the beast
Father I don't want to do this
Shut up
Stumbly and take your drugs
Suck your cup dry
You're getting crucified
Let's go to it next one
Oh god
Um, yeah, that's what he oh god. No, no. Oh, this is good. Look. So those who eat whoever look whoever's gonna eat my meat
And drink my essence
That person has
Zoane ionian that person has
Ionic life
And you say wait a minute every christian. Yes, if you're a christian out there
Do you know every time you tell me jesus saves and gives me eternal life?
Do you know what you're doing? You're referring to me eating his meat and drinking his essence
And it's not eternal life. It's not the word for eternal
Right, this is not the word for eternal
There's corruption lexicon
Fantastic, what is it the word for give me the next one?
You know what jesus's essence and meat give you
Right gobble his meat
I want you to gobble my meat. You're a weirdo. Who goes seriously? How did you get 12 children?
In an upper room and you took off all your clothes
So you could wash their feet and every time you wash their feet
You took that little towel that was around your privates and you dried their feet with the towel jesus
Did you do that so they could see your privates you pervert?
Oh
My god, seriously, and he's yelling don't scandalize me rides you freak. What does it mean?
Look, um when you put people there's a long story short people when you put somebody into the death state
By giving them those death inducing drugs
They're gonna end up in what you call the eschaton
And all the anybody with a little bit of theology just went oh, he said eschaton
Yes, like eschatology
Oh, they get all shaky. You know what I mean? It's like are you gonna urinate on yourself?
Um, and that's where jesus sins people. It's where the death
Encounter takes place. Haven't you ever wondered why everybody's come to jesus? Look this little girl. She's in the state
Jesus. No, he's like no. Let me just come lay my hands on her
Did nobody nobody was shocked by that
Jesus is going in to lay his hands on a little girl and nobody cares
That's we're gonna see what that laying on of hands means go give me the next one. I threw it in of course I did
Right, okay. Look what it means to enter the eschaton
letting your mind go
It's really when you slit something and something else pops out boom like relieving pressure you got to boil pop it
eschaton
Right
You let things go
Give me the next one up here
Oh god, it's I told you I told you it was gonna get in there. What is that ion?
Okay, here people for those of you who are walking around saying, you know what? I believed in jesus christ
I was born again and the deal between me and him was my faith in the fact that he is going to give me
eternal life
I've got some bad news
It doesn't say eternal life
It doesn't it says ionic and I want you to look here. There's a definition in greek here of ionic
It's on the second line. It's in parentheses and it starts in greek
What is that? That's the definition. What is the definition?
The completion. Are you ready? Here's what ionic is
Um for all the drug using mystery prophets who say ionic life ionic life
This is what they mean. They do not mean linear eternal life. They mean ionic life
That's what they say and here's the definition. Are you ready? What is ionic?
It is the completion that encompasses the life of every individual
It is the completion that bounds or encompasses the life of every individual
Okay
That is the ion and what he is going to do and why people say holy christ almighty. I'm born again
Is because the right allows you to see that ion
The completion
The completion
Of your life
Ah
Interesting interesting kind of makes me did every look this may have been worth all the burning and all of the
Cutting and all of the you know what I mean. I don't know. I'm starting to kind of like being born again
and what happens
There came this dude to jesus
Who was one of the leaders of the?
Assembly now it's the synagogue right that's the group, but if I say synagogue everybody thinks medieval
Right the leader of their assembly and his name was ia eros
And what did ia eros do when he saw jesus?
He fell down on his feet give me the next one fell down on his feet. Oh god
Tell me what he's gonna do. He's gonna tell him how much you want me to give a church tomorrow, right?
So i'm like no no no
He runs up to me. He's like dude
I've got a thugatrion. Look at that second line the first word thugatrion. It's got two
Accents why because mu doesn't want an accent so they run it together thugatrion mu
Isn't that nice greek is so ancient greek so musical. Yeah, um, where is your little girl?
She is in eskatos
She's in that state. What do you want me to do?
I want you to come and I want you to put your hands on her
And I want you to bring her the medical salvation
Okay
Okay
What is the handy business?
What is the handy business jesus?
Are they using drugs on their hands by the way? Yeah, I've seen a whole group
I've seen a whole group of root cutters
These are priestesses who strip naked under a full moon and okay. They have stripped naked for work. Don't get
Dirty minded
They have to right as you're envisioning these naked priestesses. Don't be dirty about it
Right and put your mind in the olympics. You know what I mean? Those were naked too
Right, you don't think everybody's sitting in the audience was a pervert or something. Do you?
Right. Oh man
Man, um, let's see. We should let's commission
Write me a note chewy to the
To the olympic committee take off
Take off the clothes
Amen, I say to you
Whoever receives the kingdom of god as a little child
That one's gonna enter in but the rest of you are totally borked
You're not gonna get there. You know why because you're not receiving it as these little children
Why is jesus working the kids up because he's right in the middle of a hairy situation at this point?
um
People are bringing him children to touch
Um, go ahead bring in some of the kids
People are bringing him children to touch
And his apostles
Uh get jealous
And they say what are you doing?
And they what do they want to do? They want to they want to reward him
With what somebody who's doing what he's doing deserves. That's what the greek verb says
That's what it uses
Oh my god, it's they want to give him what he deserves and it really makes him mad
He's got his gang of his closest kids
Right his children prostitutes and now he's involving others and they don't want those kids
In the middle of their piece of pie
And jesus gets mad and he says no no no this is how everybody gets in
Everybody gets handsied
Show me jesus what all the handsiness is about please
Show me what all the handsiness is you didn't think that jesus christ existed. It was handsy with kids. Did you?
Oh god, check out mark 10 13. I'm sorry for those of you who didn't realize this and what happened
They brought these children to him in order that he would hop to my them
In order that he was hopped on him. Yeah, and it really angered his disciples his apostles his students
He really says his students, right? Who is jesus? He's a guy that hangs around with students
Right, I mean, it's okay. Come on. You know, he got them from boats
Where their parents were and he kind of lured them off and said look I'll I'll make you fishers of men, baby
Right and the next thing, you know, the galley boys end up
Circulating with jesus and get in trouble. Well at this point
He's wanting to hop to my children
Okay, and this is what he's doing. Are you ready? Bring me up to greek
Bring me up to greek. It's so telling people the first time I saw this
Sorry, they made me want to puke. Are you ready? Here we go jesus. What are you doing with the kids?
Um, this definition is so long. It's two pages, but look, um to fasten onto something
Wait, he's fastening on the children. That can't be. Give me know with your hand to fasten on to grop
Wait a minute jesus. What are you doing? What are you doing here? Look at number?
Oh, I don't know. Let's look at number three
Number three to touch or to affect somebody to grasp with the senses. That's a nice metaphor
To be handsy with reality and to become perspective. I like that. Oh, no. Chewie's pointing out number five
You mean this word is used for straight up intercourse
I'm not talking just
Molestation i'm not saying jesus is just molesting those kids
I'm saying he is penetrating them with his hands
And why is he penetrating them with his hands?
Because he is applying the very same drugs that are on that naked child's
Private parts when he is in the garden of guess simony
Jesus is a professional
place days
And he is making
more
Trafficking
Children making more children trafficable
Within what remember the only times jesus is mad is when somebody tries to stop him doing this to children
And when he's up face to face with the pimps in the temple
Right and he's like no way man. This is my territory. He's kicking over money tables and stuff like that
You thought he was an angel didn't you you didn't realize he's just a pimp
Finding and establishing his territory
You're right. He comes from egypt, baby when he came back to this podunk jerusalem
Do you know what do you know what he did?
He went in the temple and he's so impressed the people with his educated speak
Oh
You got to remember judia's backwoods, man. It's backwoods
Right you get mobs of people that are rock someone to death. All right. Romans are shaking their head, man
That's not what are you doing?
Justice, baby. Do you modest you hate justice? Don't you you atheist? Oh my god
Let's get the next one get the next one. I've got a couple left people. Jesus is saying I don't want you to do this to me
Don't scandalize me, baby
Now if Jesus
You know if he's a normal guy
You know and he ends up in a situation where three teenage boys are guarding him while he's in a public park
with a naked boy
Is he gonna be worried about getting scandalized
You know if Jesus hadn't been arrested with a naked kid. I would say
This doesn't make sense
Right. Think about it for a minute people. Thank you the son of god. The son of god really have to worry about getting scandalized
I don't understand why that's there
Except in the context of his touching of the children and his anger. Show me what Jesus gets. Does he get angry?
Yeah, he gets angry
Right, I don't dare. Oh, Jesus
In a ganak desin gay open out boys. This is what he says
That says he gets really pissed and what does he say?
He says let let me have access to those little kids
Don't stop it coming because this is the kingdom
This is the kingdom of god
This is the kingdom of yahoo
Oh
Child sacrifices, baby. I don't care if you believe it or not. Give me the next one. Jesus is doing it
Just to let you know how pissed he is. Look, he's he's feeling violent irritation, bro
Those jerks those teenage jerks that kid john was sitting on my lap the other night now. He's telling me
I can't have these little children
I'll let me tell you something unless unless you let me do this to these little children
There's gonna be nobody in the kingdom of heaven
You hear the
You hear the real jesus the reason the christians hate what I do so much
Is because my jesus is real
You know, my jesus is real
You know, a lot of people have been telling me they're getting in trouble for watching lady babel on
You know, whether it's because they're at some place at work
And somebody sees it and you know says
What is that or whether it's family people are writing to me about can't watch me around their family
By the way, um heads up to who what's the name who's watching?
Somebody's watching me it
Like with their whole family and to that group they're sitting out there
You know, we love you guys. We love you. I love it. I love it. You guys are great
Love that. I hope you're having good food good food and good drink love it
Give me the last one and let's just see what happens here
Let's cap all of this revelation with revelation
And I saw from the mouth of the dragon
And from the mouth of the beast and from the mouth of the false prophet
What is coming out?
A cathartic spirits
Spirits like
frogs
What are the frogs telling us?
Frogs are speaking to you through the muse and they're telling you there is a way
There is a way to salvation
You must
Enter death and be resurrected
And you will have ionic life
Let me just say today
There is nobody within the sound of my voice
Who follows or believes they follow a mystery. There is nobody who actually does
None of you you have all fallen short
Thank you for coming tonight
Hail Satan
I am being the man who laughs
I'm in the cut I'm in the crease
Black tip arrows darken the sky
The iris which can fly
Medea's got the heavy weight. How much you want to buy?
Scorpion venom
Molecule stations dragon venom vaping. You know, they might be taping. They want the elemental peas
For the darkest of dreams
Lady Medea
She's coming to see you
A train venom
Lady Babylon
Word won the bid
It's how it is
With the poisonous kiss
She never missed
Put you in the sacred drift
Catch you in the twist
You
