Drankin' whiskey, when that whisky's burnin'
Do my veins, indian goes crazy
And the Scottsman wants to bash out the brain
Of an English man, don't know why
Got a little mixed up in the hills of Carolina
You see, you've gotcha sellin' and you got your
Drankin' whiskey, oh yeah
Drankin' whiskey, oh yeah
Welcome back to Lady Babylon, Wednesday night
Bible study, it's so nice to have you here
I know that we have Jude loaded in the cannon
Ready to go, so I will not waste your time
Tonight we're going to work our way
Through a little bit of bottle air
But just as a whiff for us to have a perfume
And then we will call up some ghosts
And I'm going to just give you
Your first taste of a deposition
Of a deposition, so we're detectives
Remember, we're here for a reason
And tonight on Lady Babylon
Yes, yes, I didn't want to start the fire
So quickly, but I want you to know
Hey, it's going to be hot tonight
I'm going to be talking, dressing directly
All of those of you who are unsatisfied
You know who you are, I'm talking to you
Wives, Protestants and Catholics alike
I'm talking to you
Yes, tonight we're going to begin
With putting these people in the place
Where they must be as we sit atop
The throne, yes, is that nice?
Welcome, you didn't think that
I was going to leave off the stuff
About the slaves, did you?
Yes, welcome, welcome to tonight's slave auction
Fantastic, this is going to be fantastic
Set the stage for us, will you?
Will you Chewie?
Chewie's going to zip us right ahead
I want you guys to absorb this
This is going to give you a little
Sweet reticling, little right images
In the right places, hit it Chewie
Please do unravel it all
I feel sorry for you
Oh, that's going to be a little hard to do
Out on the back roads
Inside the forbidden zone
Followed by ghosts
Growing up alone
I lost everything
That I ever wrote
Your overseer is back
Your overseer is back and guess what?
If you are a woman, he wants you to submit
He wants you to submit, right?
So I'm standing with the watchers in there
We're trying to understand this, guys
We're really trying to understand this
But you've got a guy, where'd he go?
Paul, get over here, I know it hurts
But that's the way it is
You signed up for this
Now tell me something, Paul
Tell me something, Paul
Stop crying, stop crying, Paul
Yeah, yeah
That's where we are
We've got Paul the Apostle here
And he belongs to us
And he is saying
If you are a dude at
Do not apply
Right, right
And now that we have mixed
I mean, some women
Stepped up and became teachers
And now we have a problem
We have a problem because you see
The whole cult
As reformed by Paul
His particular brand, flavor
And it runs through Catholicism
And it runs through Protestantism
It runs through all the isms
Love it
It runs through that girl sitting on her bed
Praying, Jesus, Jesus, I love you
And I know that you died from my sins
Jesus, it runs through her
It runs through her
Right through her
Ha
Ladies
Get out of the market, says St. Paul
I don't let any woman
Teach over me
Yeah, I don't appoint any of them
Nope, no women
You got women? What does it say from the time?
It says they had some women who stepped up
Right? It says they had some women
Who stepped up and Paul didn't like it
Paul didn't like it
But this is the divine word of God
It's the divine word of God
So what are we to believe?
Nothing
We're just going to look at what the actual words say
That's all we're going to take from that
Now, I'm going to set us up here
One more time, we've got to go through one more wave
We're not quite there yet
We're going back, but we're not quite there yet
Jude's waiting in the wings
He's afraid now because of what I've been doing
He knows that I'm going to take you on the way of Cain
This is so great, you guys
Everybody buckle up
Do you remember those wandering stars
That we found back there with those mithrists
When we took that little girl up for her initiation
Do you remember that?
Do you remember what she said?
She opened her hand and she said what?
Yeah
One of those wandering stars
Right? One of the wandering stars
Today, you're going to see that
As it was called by the reformers
The way of Cain
The way of Cain
Imagine that
Another mystery operating simultaneously
The way of Cain
We've got some angels here
They're always good looking
Always good looking
They see the daughters
Next thing you know
You've got a whole group of giants
That's where we're going
Hit us with another video here
I want to bring in a poet now
He's welcome, right? We welcome poets
People have been asking about
Who we welcome
What's going on
There's spies and anti-spies
This and that
We've come today to assembly
Congregation of Satan
We've come today and in our assembly
Have snuck
Embedded themselves into our skin
Like oil
They have embedded themselves
They're here around us
They have no shame
They have no shame
It's these
I want you to be aware of
And to know not to follow their porneia
What?
You had me up until porneia
These are things they're doing in the cult, right?
Yeah, yeah, get up here Chuck, Chuck, Chewie
We're going to have to go right now
Or hit it
We're going to have to go right now
Or hit it
We're going to have to go right now
Or hit it
We're going to have to go right now
Or hit it
We're going to have to go right now
Or hit it
We're going to have to go right now
Or hit it
We're going to have to go right now
Or hit it
We're going to have to go right now
Or hit it
We're going to have to go right now
Or hit it
We're going to have to go right now
We're going to have to go right now
Or hit it
goes without saying that if the angel of the morning star,
if Lucifer himself can be drugged down, presumably,
you know who is in that seat.
Yeah, I'm not talking about the great mother,
but I'm not talking about the great mother.
And we have to remember those of you sitting there,
right, a very large percentage of you.
By the way, shout out to my peeps in Israel
that I haven't spoken to in a long time,
but I wish I were there partying.
I really do.
I really do.
That poor him where I ended up in the dress.
Yeah, you know how England gets represented, bro.
You know how it is.
But no, I go too far a field.
We're finding out the infiltrators in Jude, right?
We're finding out the infiltrators.
So Chuck Baudelaire is going to help us to do that,
because Chuck Baudelaire knows, being a dragon, the way of Cain,
the way of Cain.
And tonight, that's where we need to go.
That's where the dissatisfied, right?
That's where the dissatisfied housewife
of the Southern Baptist preacher.
That's why she has to have some kind of mystery that enables
her to find that orgasmos.
Yeah, that right, that place.
Yeah, that's what we're looking at.
You cannot avoid it.
This is pagan.
You're going to hear about some drugs now,
and you're going to hear about some intercourse.
And you're going to hear about some ancient ritual that
may make you feel queasy, may make you feel queasy.
Tonight, I want to try something new.
We have a clip for you.
What I have done is I've set up a deposition
for anyone interested.
This is an official deposition, court deposition,
in a case where it appears that I was the plaintiff.
Appears I was the plaintiff.
Yes, certain things have been redacted
to protect the identity of the innocent involved.
Yeah, definitely, definitely.
And tonight, I want to bring you a section of that.
So I'm going to set the setting here.
It is professor suing university for false termination
after the American Association of University Professors
sent a delegation to investigate,
and they came to the conclusion that I was falsely terminated.
Yeah.
And St. Mary's went on the top 10 schools
for lacking any concern for free speech of USA Day.
I want to play you this clip.
I have now come to the office building.
We have been fighting this war for three years
to get them to turn over email to us that's concerning me,
that they're refusing to do.
Under court order, they're refusing to do it.
And we're pushing, pushing, pushing to get the court
to kick in and give us this access.
We're right up at that point.
Now it's time for my deposition.
I drive 12 hours, 12 hours to a deposition.
Yeah, yeah.
And this was some of the questioning.
Some of the questioning.
We'll be talking more in the future about sacraments
and about accusations.
I just want you to know this is a Catholic university
with a very strong Catholic brother's seminary
and diocesal magnificence of the beauty and pageantry.
Yeah, it was the deal after I was,
they investigated me for demon possession
without me being there.
This is what I want to bring you.
Cut it.
Let's see the clip.
And if it comes out well, great.
Both believe it was unjust.
So we talked about how the response, the response
from professors, other professors,
and the fear and the climate at St. Mary's.
A lot of professors have approached,
or several professors, I should say,
have approached blank and acknowledged
that we're sorry.
We're afraid to stand up for Hillman
because the administration is so heavy-handed
and will fire them.
But that has nothing to do with your case, right?
No, I think that's everything in my case.
No, it's not.
What's your case about?
My case is about St. Mary's attempting
to convince a student that I had ripped her,
and she knew, told them that I had not.
And this case is about their attempt
to paint me so that they could get rid of me.
Which student is that?
Blank.
Is your case about anything else?
I would say my case is about freedom of speech
and freedom of religion, and about the tendency
to try to stifle things from ancient literature that
make us uncomfortable because of our current religious
perspective.
Can you explain that to me?
Explain what to you?
What would you say?
So because of our Judeo-Christian heritage,
culture in the modern West, some of the things
that the Greeks and Romans believed and followed
in the ways that they set up their society,
we find them hard to understand.
So we try to stifle their teaching
in order to make ourselves more comfortable.
And I believe it's my duty to these ancient texts
to amuse.
To amuse, sure.
OK.
I believe it's my duty to reveal these texts,
or to teach these texts to students.
Does that explain it?
What is it that you're trying to teach the students
that you believe institutions not necessarily set marries,
but just generally institutions find difficult?
Well, I'm not trying to teach them anything.
I want to give them Cicero.
I want to give them Herodotus.
I'm trying to teach them the authors.
I don't have an agenda except to give the students the materials
so that they can say, oh, this is what Cicero says
about government, or this is what Thucydides says about tyranny,
or this is what Euripides says about greed.
My job is not to teach a belief, or an ideal, or a philosophy.
I'm not a theologian.
My job is to open up Greek and Latin texts
and say, this is what they say.
You have an issue with corporate greed, correct?
I don't have an issue.
You don't like it?
I tend to parrot antiquities understanding
that greed is the one vice that will destroy civic society,
civil society, excuse me.
Do you believe that vice is penetrated
into the educational institutions?
Yes.
OK, that was enlightening.
A section, just a section of a seven and a half hour deposition
in which I was brought to a crescendo of a lawyer screaming
at me that whether or not asking me, are you pan repeatedly?
I'm laughing at this point.
I'm like, who?
Where's the?
Did somebody put the thing in the?
Is there a cop somewhere with something?
Is he passing out those cops again?
Oh, my goodness.
People are going nuts, right?
It's gorgeous.
It's gorgeousness and gorgeosity all wrapped up into one.
As you see the slavery, there are those
who have embedded themselves with us, says Jude.
They snuck in.
They have snuck in.
Yeah, fantastic, fantastic.
Next time on our look at the deposition,
we'll look at a young professor talking
about sacramental drugs and the opposition to such chatter.
Yes, fantastic, it's historical beauty.
The date is December 5th, 2018.
But it might as well be December 8th, 1313.
You know what I mean?
It's gorgeous and it gets intense.
So I don't want to make people, let me know, people.
If this is something, if you want more of this,
if you want more of this, fantastic, love it.
I absolutely love it.
Just an answer, by the way, for those of you who have asked,
I am not monetized.
Yes, somebody was saying, he wants your money.
I don't want your money, right?
For all the frustration.
For all the frustration of the wives.
The wives is the Protestant preachers.
Yes, for all their frustrations.
Be quiet, sit down, close your mouth.
I don't allow a woman to teach.
Welcome back, Paul.
Welcome back, Paul.
You are quite the misogynist, sir.
Did you hear that?
Did you hear that?
Oh my goodness.
Let's get some, this is too much, this is too much.
Can we hit that one more time?
Here's what I want to do.
I'm about to bring the text up for Jude.
And I'm going to show you, for those of you here for this,
I'm going to show you those wandering stars.
I'm going to be like, what?
And I'm going to show you them in operation.
Before we get there, I just want to one more time
set the mood.
I want you to take a look and absorb
the imagery connected with the way of Cain
via Baudelaire's spirit.
I'm going to show you those wandering stars.
I'm going to show you those wandering stars.
I'm going to show you those wandering stars.
I'm going to show you those wandering stars.
I'm going to show you those wandering stars.
I'm going to show you those wandering stars.
I'm going to show you those wandering stars.
I'm going to show you those wandering stars.
I'm going to show you those wandering stars.
I'm going to show you those wandering stars.
I'm going to show you those wandering stars.
I'm going to show you those wandering stars.
Dalt, here it comes.
Here comes the first wave, in Jude
is going to give it to us.
Now, tonight, I just want to the meat
of what we're looking at to be thrown in front of you.
I'm going to have my own.
I'm going to have just my own little book,
it's just the- I'm sorry, I wasn't holding
the mic up there.
I'm just going to have my own little book.
It is not computer worthy.
It's just great.
worthy it's just pages but I prefer this and a lot of you do too so it's kind of
yummy so there was the Greek for those of you who want to see it there was the
Greek and by the way coming up on Sunday we have been given another hand down
from the transdimensional cord so we'll be doing another one of those and we'll
be working our way up remember work up up up wonderful in the organization you
know how those indictments go it's the pinnacle when you reach that top of the
line yeah this is the one where the buck stopped right so it's fantastic when
you finally reach that pinnacle you've got that excitement because you've got a
question as a society yeah you've got one question at that point you're gonna
honor Lady Justice or not and shame on you if you don't if you don't honor Lady
Justice above whom stands no man if you don't honor her you lose goodbye
goodbye democracy enjoy it the watchers the odds are not on us right they're not
on us everybody's saying it's about to go okay here I'll stop it's like I'm
pontificating I'm sorry for that people I don't want to waste your time Judas is a
do-loss Judas the slave I'm just gonna translate this I'll throw in my own but
I'll leave the Greek out yeah Jude slave of Jesus Christ brother of Jacob to
those loved in God the Father and kept in Jesus Christ yeah guarded and called
called you are called women stay quiet stay quiet do you like that do you like
being silenced you do it's strangely odd isn't it isn't it that you would like
being silenced I think he was right last time I think that oh whip thing was somebody
wanted that it's very strange very strange yeah typical greeting yeah mercy
you and love you know peace let him be filled brother right oh my beloved I was
gonna make haste to write to you about the common so theory about the common
salvation right but a necessity is you know put me on another track now to write
to you right oh my god to write to you about what about exhorting you to
struggle in the faith the holy faith that was once delivered to you I'm gonna
have to struggle on something huh yeah okay well that's fine what's the struggle
of a brother for certain people have snuck in these are people who were
indicted long time ago as the assa base as those who have no Saba those who have
no Saba you coming in wait what side are we on we're on the side of the Saba yeah
Saba baby Saba Zeus right Saba do you like that you like those sounds
coursing through the air yeah yeah Saba my yeah what am I doing when I'm doing
the Saba recognizing what am I recognizing I'm recognizing the gods
recognizing them what is that it's worship it's worship how do you think you
get these things to work without some form of worship we know that the universe
is based on that we know it's based upon some fabric of information yeah yeah
transferring that information just it's just communication don't something make
a big deal but so now he's writing them these people have snuck in right and you
know it's been written down that the you know what are they doing they're going
they're creating a cell yeah they're creating the wantonness is anybody
wanting out there can we bring that any further forward than Victoria at England
we can try sexual excitation due to religious fervor isn't that nice isn't
that nice sexual excitation due to religious fervor that's having the
experience that's why we don't have the frustration right it's why we have
Helen and we don't have frustration all right you guys you just didn't get it
right as soon as you take out the temples the Aphrodite you're gonna crumble
you're not gonna have any democratic influence whatsoever whatsoever she was
maintaining that divide she was maintaining it historically and you guys
shot it down you guys shot it down no one of the oracles died yeah that's it
that's it no more for you this is sad it makes me sad let's keep reading because
this is it's gonna you know kind of get crazy he says he wants to remind them you
know he says knowing that at one time at one time Jesus Christ took you out of
Egypt wait what who did Jesus did
Jesus Christ took some people out of Egypt yeah and what did he do after he
took him out of Egypt on this excursion what did he do he killed him wait I'm
sorry say it stop he did what he did what he killed him why because they
turned around decided his junk did not fly with them yeah so he killed him all
welcome to Jesus Christ if you didn't know that this was in Jude it's because
every sermon that you go look up right now popular ones that get 60,000 hits at
a time and within a week let's say those I don't know if you don't think that's
popular then you know I think it's a lot of people when that happens when that
word gets out there there's no penetration of the reality that's in the
text there's a fairy tale if you watch sermons and people are always asking me
well not always but they've asked me why do you listen to them this stuff why do
you listen to Jill Osteen number one because it's great great entertainment
but these are historical data points that you can trace what's happening now
and predicts what's happening in what's you expect to happen in the future yeah
it's a very oracular process it's fantastic but you have to you have to go
to the elements for it so that's what they're doing they're diving in these
people that come up into their agape feast did you know the Romans were
arresting Christians for agape feasts that he's talking about where we're
going to and you say why um and why would you bring that up because I find it
interesting that the Romans would find themselves in a position as they
administrate their empire that they would find themselves in a position that
they have to break up certain gatherings certain religious gatherings for
treasonous activity and for mothers having sex with their children to the
Romans that was completely off right you want to have your orgia you want to
have your orgies your religious performances you know where the arches
are you know where the temples are where all of that stuff is done right
there's no reason to hide it anywhere the women who started the power through
wait who was it who was that lady who brought the Latin she brought Latin she
brought Latin she had Greek but she brought Latin to Rome before there was
this hut on the place yeah she brought Latin so that those people could write
their own language imagine her you know what they call her they call her the
Roman muse carmenta carmenta the Roman muse and what what was she in
Algeria what did they first do what was their cult this oldest of oldest of
cults right this oldest of cults of the muse what what did they bring what did
they bring they brought that oracle they brought that oracle and with it they
built civilization with it they built civilization and they did so as what was
her occupation I'm sorry I couldn't hear that what was her occupant yeah midwife
midwife the drugs always go back to the midwives right they always go back to
the midwives the oldest ones so we have cult people that is designed by and for
midwives to create civilization this is the stew of the Bronze Age this is the
stew and this is what we're seeing reflected through these sources even
through this guy yeah even through Jude even through Jude now we were just with
Jesus right Jesus was bringing people out of Egypt and then they turned against
them so Jesus killed them all right it's what Jude says don't look at me and say
Moses right we all know his name comes from the muse yeah who do you think has
the snake on the pole right what you're telling me Judaism is a Bronze Age
mystery cult yes yes Judaism developed from older cultures as far back as the
Calculithic Pulaskians performing the ritual yeah which turns out involves a
lot a lot of drugs and it ends up staining the language with all the drugs
that it's using right fantastic okay let me just there was a couple of more
things I don't want to take up too much of your time I just wanted to bring it
together and I wanted you to note that our warning is you know the angels right
so you've got Lucifer who is the most beautiful right and he takes down with
him a third right a third of the other angels with him and everybody knows
that here where you and I are this is Satan's belongs to him yeah belongs to
him and even that little even that guy Michael take that down for a second this
is one of the most disgraceful right acts he is a who am I am I the accuser
tonight I am it was about the body of Moses it was about the body of Moses and
the funny thing was heaven didn't get possession of it because Michael was
sent to do a job and didn't do it why Michael because Michael was scared brah
when you have angels and your enforcers who are scared you got problems brah
dragon dragon fears nobody but Medea fears nobody but that Queen dragon fears
nobody but that Queen that he serves is that nice oh that's nice I love that I
love that and that's why you get it preserved over time you get the mystery
preserved over time so I want to bring that out and I want to point you to the
way of Cain yeah I want to point you to the way of Cain and along the path to the
way of Cain is that place called Sodom and Gomorrah Sodom and Gomorrah and
you'll be watching the sermons on Jude and you won't get this you won't get it
at all notice that he said what kind of people are these that come into your
assemblies who's their way and how do they how do these people get in there
all right what kind of people are they well he tells us to the kind of people
that enter into dream oracles yeah what these are people who get vision oh these
are people who are going through those rights yes yes people the mystery of
Anomia is in operation right it is working there are people who are doing
it and this group is fighting that group yeah you have an opposition it's
gorgeous the cult history is fantastic of antiquity right and you can't talk
about Jesus unless you talk about cult history right dude had the titles right
all the titles mm-hmm same ones same ones that they're using in the great
mother cult where we end up with the child castrated fantastic it must have
been a great time can you imagine I honestly I just want to step aside before
we just mentioned the way of Cain and then we're gonna we're gonna jump because
it's a lot and I don't I value your time can we just look at for a second the
fact that these ways are ways involving body fluids and rituals and sex they
were getting all sort of oils somebody was screaming about the consecration
oils and somebody else said hey do you know there's a formula for this thing
dude I cannot remember all the consecration oils that I saw the recipes
for the ones that I like are the ones of the priestesses Aphrodite use you know
what they got in there they got things to stop you from getting sick they got
what they got stuff that will kill what you get down there in your reproductive
zone yeah the matrix of existence people say you know it's looking how your
language is look look at the uterus right like what is there how do they
perceive the uterus right you're gonna see how they end up treating women right
and nobody cares about why does nobody care about those women around the Black
Sea why does nobody care about those women around the Black Sea I don't get it
they were creating everything they had the knowledge the knowledge that burned
in the Bronze Age filtered down through these genius women who were using
chemicals to transform people to keep people alive during childbirth to heal
disease and to take you from an everyday person and turn you into a born-again
cultist with a vision that you can never release you can never release once
you've been there imagine if I came to you and said and you said how was it and
I'd have to say since I'm talking to you I'd have to say wow I mean this whole
death thing scared scared me right but once I was there and saw what I saw the
whole resurrection was like put it into a place that makes me no longer fear what
is going on in life right and that is what Jude's contention is they have run
after the nature look what they're doing people they're running after the nature
do you know that the mystery the religions that created Judaism and
Christianity and Islam did you know those monotheistic side rivulets all come
from a place where nature is central you must have a great mother if you don't
you don't belong here right somebody get the we got another Addis we got another
Addis right he must undergo the transformation imagine if I don't know
if you could see a group of women with this power and remember the archers are
the at the time that's the unbeatable technology right and those women who are
on the horses around the Black Sea those women are ferocious they have to kill
three people before they can have a situation where they'll produce offspring
nobody produces offspring unless you got three and if you want to get rid of your
guy you know that's up to you do you see the power there do you see the power
there and from that they built the society that is buried underneath the
Christian one that was built on top yeah it's absolutely gorgeous it's
absolutely gorgeous yeah and what I think that we're gonna have to do is find
these texts in their native original habitats so that we can put together the
broader picture of what is coming and what we need to do just keep bear this
in mind the great Etruscan civils worked under a system that viewed that
central authority or God if you will as a woman who possessed the knowledge of
the drugs she was able to control her own body hence her own destiny yeah isn't
that amazing makes you think could they have made those advances without those
daughters I don't think they could have made the advances with as much of the
drugs that I've seen in the text I don't think this is you're gonna have to have a
whole bunch of people involved over a whole long time yeah you're gonna have
to have tried and true especially when you're talking about antidotes right
and bringing somebody back from a snake venom right exposure fantastic mmm what
if we could send ourselves there you know where I'm going all right I want
to watch one more time I want to watch one more time what we watched at the
beginning about the women within the Southern Baptist convention and what is
going on because that is a great thermometer of those who have snuck in
who have submitted are you a doulos are you a slave have you submitted to the
yoke yes yes I dedicate this to you in your unsatisfaction
yeah
but please don't talk to me like I got a mess up to you got one judge you don't
need to please do I feel sorry for you oh that's gonna be a little hard to do
I don't the back roads inside the forbidden zone
followed by it goes growing up alone
time to bring her back right time to bring her back and to show him what it
is yeah thanks for those of you who've been on the way to Aphrodite thank you
tonight Gord I love the time that I'm spending with you and I'm looking
through the comments and every once in a while I give that stuff to you too but I
want to let you know I appreciate the fact that you would deem a little bit of
ancient Greek worthy of your time yeah and the fact that you would honor this
place of the muse because if you don't like the muse get out get out Hail Satan
Hey
