Take me to that happy hour I never had
Show me the girl I never met I want it so bad
Where is that golden palace? Where is that horc called destiny?
I think she ran on without me
Today it is my distinct Underworld privilege to bring to you
Lamea, to bring to you Jesus the cross-dressing vampire
Who sucks the blood of boys
The Apocalypse
So here we go with the imagery. I won't waste your time.
We're going to turn tonight right to the beginning of the apocalypse.
We're going to look at a little bit of Greek. We're going to translate a little bit.
Just run along fluidly because I need to run you to the image here.
We are being faithful to the image of the Son of Man.
We must maintain the integrity of that image.
Let me show you that image.
Verse 13 in the middle of these lampstands is the image of someone like the Son of Man
dressed all the way to his feet
and zoned on up, kink-shirt on up, joined on up on his mastoid, on his breasts.
Around his breasts he is girding.
The King James will translate gird, gird up your breasts ladies.
We're using support material.
Remember, I'm transporting you to a place where the God S is the model, is the original.
So don't let it surprise you that Jesus is cross-dressing.
In this passage, he's wearing a bra.
And it says it's toys mustoys. We talked about that previously, so I won't beat the point into the ground.
But when you check the Victorians, you get in your ship and you fly back to the Victorians at Oxford,
and you say, hey, gentlemen, what are these mustoys here?
Well, the grammarians from antiquity say the Victorians.
They tell us that these are feminine breasts.
This would have to be mods, have to have the data in there in order for it to be men.
Are there examples that flip back and forth?
And here's the problem. This is the big one that they hold up because the Victorians could not imagine a world
where Jesus would be walking around with feminine breasts.
Yes, they couldn't imagine the world where Jesus had breasts.
Doesn't that say a lot?
Why can none of us imagine a world where Jesus has breasts
and is wearing a very nice, a very nice bra?
That the text is very specific, is holding up, is, it's perry.
It's around them. It's structure, it's support, it's underwire from antiquity.
And it's a golden bra. It's a golden bra.
That's important. Fashion is a big thing.
And we know that there are different colors and materials associated with these priesthoods
that are involved in the mysteries.
Sometimes they're labeled by their colors.
So the use of gold here is quite important.
And none of that, it says, perhaps he's got good taste.
Yeah. Hey, be careful.
I'll do his head, his hairs, three case.
They're white. They're not blonde.
They're white. His lady hair is white.
Do you get the feeling?
I know I rocketed us into that text tonight.
But do you get the feeling that something's wrong?
Do you get a little nausea?
A little bit sensation?
Wait a minute.
That nausea you're feeling is because this work is written by a symbol and restructured
with very obvious little, oh, and that person that that was talking about is Jesus.
Little inserts.
Yeah, they called the early Christian Sybilis for a reason, right?
Sybilis. Who is the daughter?
Who is the daughter?
It's herophily that Sybil.
Who is the daughter of the lamia?
The lamia.
Hang on.
We're almost there to her.
I'm showing you vampire Jesus who sucks the blood of little boys.
Vampire Jesus who sucks the blood of little boys.
There we go.
What's after his white wig?
Verse 15.
This feet looks like Halkolibanos is a word that's just two words slammed together.
One of them is bronze.
It's where we get the calc root.
And the other word is used for incense.
You know, the problem is we don't have a lot of references to these two words being smashed together.
So it really should mean literally bronze incense.
You mean his feet, his bottom of his legs are like bronze incense?
Wow, that's kind of strange.
So we translated this, not we, but you know, the king and his men translated this as bronze in reflection or bronze in color, right?
Brazen, his bronze feet.
Why does Jesus have bronze feet?
White wig and lingerie.
Because he's got that phoné, that voice, which is the voice Houdaton, polon, the voice of many waters.
The voice of many waters.
What better?
Sybil.
Is then she who is the granddaughter of ocean.
Herophaly, the great daughter of Lamia.
Why would you bring up Lamia? Who's Lamia?
Lamia is a Libyan queen.
Lamia is a Libyan queen.
And Lamia in her intercourse with Zeus.
Sacrifices her children.
Yeah.
Yeah, she has to to the jealousy to the jealousy of Hera.
Yeah, those children are lost, taken away from her.
So imagine Lamia, who is the mother who pulls out her own eyes.
Yeah, and what does she do after that?
She prowls the world looking for young boys.
Yeah, looking for young boys.
You know me, Cersei.
Well, I showed you, Cersei.
I showed you and you showed yourself.
You revealed yourself.
Yes.
Cersei drinks the blood.
Yeah.
Let's take a look at Lamia.
Shall we?
Let's go to Libya.
Let's get in our ship and go to Libya.
Yeah.
So what is he doing?
For those of you who are asking, why are we on this field trip?
Because here we're going to take a look away from the garden where Jesus is
arrested with that naked boy.
And we're going to look at the cross.
And we're going to say, okay, this is the all part of the same crime scene.
Right.
So what is he doing there?
What is he saying?
God, we can get us, you know, do all sorts of things.
But what do we have record wise?
We get records of his speech.
So what is he saying before he's dying?
And maybe we can solve the idea of why does he die prematurely?
Right.
People don't realize everybody in the world will tell you Jesus Christ was crucified.
He died by crucifixion.
He didn't die by crucifixion.
That's what the Roman guards noticed.
Centurion, that dude's already dead.
He's not supposed to be dead yet.
Nobody else is dead.
It's been, hasn't been enough time.
You know, they were engineers, right?
They knew exactly how to engineer the, the stage of death.
And they did.
And Jesus is there, but he dies early.
And they're like, Oh, don't have to bust him up so he can't breathe,
hold himself out and breathe anymore.
He's already dead.
He's already dead.
What did he say right before he died?
What did he say?
Let's go to Libya to find out.
Let's go to Libya to find out because this dude's in deep.
Let's go to the first passage that we have tonight.
This is from Dio.
Dio golden mouth.
Yep.
Just go ahead and leave that up.
Dio golden mouth.
This is late first, early second in that range.
That's when he's writing, doing his thing.
Yeah.
And he tells us about Libya.
The general character and appearance of their body.
Where as follows the face was that of a woman.
Now he says a brief woman.
Right.
And that translation is not is is no good because this is a woman in her prime.
This is her.
She was at her acme.
She was at her acme is how their appearances.
This is a group of people in Libya.
Yeah.
The breast and the bosom and the neck too were extremely beautiful.
The like of which no mortal made or bride in the bloom of youth could claim.
Isn't that nice?
Nobody can claim this.
These people were gorgeous.
Okay.
Nor sculptor nor painter will ever be able to reproduce.
Yeah.
But those of you who have years to hear here.
Yeah.
The complexion was a dazzling brightness.
Now this one, this one also falls a little short.
I did the Greek to make sure.
And it's a it's it's a light emanating from her skin.
The face as she looks at you emanates light.
We've only seen this in one other group and that is the group from Georgia.
It turns out that's how you know a daughter of ETS is that her skin glows.
That's why we call her one of the reasons we call her the granddaughter of the son.
She glows.
Interesting.
Libyans.
Beautiful.
The glance of the eyes aroused affection and yearning in the souls of all that be held.
That's interesting.
Sort of.
She's got a Henry Cavill thing going.
Yes, Chewie.
Don't look like that.
You know what I'm talking about.
The rest of the body was hard and protected by scales and all the lower part was snake.
Ending in the snake's baleful head.
Now the story does not say that these animals were winged like the Sphinxes.
Nor that they like them spoke or made any sound whatever except a hissing noise.
That's the hissing of the pipe.
It's the same word to express it.
Right.
Talking to angels.
You don't hear.
You don't hear what you think what has been portrayed to you in a fairy tale.
Yeah.
It says in the text that you hear the sound of an instrument.
Everybody's like what?
His voice is like a trumpet.
What?
Yeah.
And they don't understand it because we've lost the context.
Scales.
And what did they do?
What do these lame I do?
These lame I go out and they hunt.
They hunt after young boys whose blood they suck.
Whose blood they suck and whose flesh they eat.
It is all in the blood and in the body.
What do these lame I look like?
What do they look like?
Please.
Let's go to set our timeship for Aristophanes, Athenian, comedian, young guy.
Well, you know, he's he's right.
He's pretty young when he's when he's successful, highly successful.
Right.
And here he is.
What is he writing?
He's identifying.
This is from the frogs.
Aristophanes play where Dionysus get that off of there for a minute.
Let me explain context.
I'm terribly.
They shouldn't have done that.
It's the frogs and he's explaining Dionysus and Xanthias are going to the underworld.
They're making their trip.
They're catabasis.
If you if you want to.
But they're making their trips to the underworld and then coming back and they're going to bring back with them.
Euripides is not funny.
They're going to bring back with them Euripides, but they run into on the way chorus of initiates.
They look for Heracles.
Heracles.
Yes.
And remember, this is the same stage where we took in Greece, where we took that Bacchic religious procession and funneled it into the stage right there in the stage.
So that thing could be performed in front of you.
So when Aristophanes steps up there, he's not stepping up there as a war brothers guy.
Right.
He's not working for Disney.
He's working for the muse.
This is a sacred act.
This is a sacred act.
So everything must be.
John on.
If we're going to bring back Lamia so that Jesus can sit on the cross and scream.
Lamia sabak son.
The one from the one from the zone.
From the liminal earth.
The one to bring back from the dead, the great queen.
Yeah.
If we're going to invoke her like Jesus did on the cross, then we're going to have to understand who she is.
We have a very beautiful, just very brief little description in Aristophanes frogs.
Let's bring that up again.
Oh, isn't this nice?
Impusa toy nun esti.
We're defining who she is.
She is the Impusa.
That's the lame.
Yeah.
To re goon.
Lampe tie.
Hop on.
To stop.
So phone.
Isn't that beautiful?
Yeah.
She sits there and shines.
Yeah.
With fire.
Shines.
By means of a fire.
In her completely.
What shines her entire face.
Her look.
The way she looks at you.
Her cross ops.
You know what an ops is?
That's this only as I'm looking at you.
When you look at me, we make eye contact.
My ops is being received.
You're taking in my ops.
Well, hers is entirely shining.
It has light.
And let's go back to the passage.
What else?
What else is better?
Can you take that?
There we go.
Well, look at this.
She has the bronze feet too.
Look at that.
Dionysus.
Thank you very much.
What are you doing?
Lamia.
What are you doing?
Queen of Libya.
You do in the mystery.
You're doing the mystery.
Yeah.
There you are.
Of course, you're going to be dressed in here.
You're going to have your moustache girded up.
You're going to have them held back.
Right in place.
You're ready to go with your white wig.
Yeah.
You got to have the white wig.
How do we know that?
We were resurrecting Euripides.
And Euripides brings us pentheus.
With his white wig.
And his new vision in order to make it.
In order to reach that death and resurrection mystery.
You have to be wearing your women's kit.
Remember, this is an ancient religion that is created by women.
Women who are not sitting at home,
but women who were experimenting with pharmaceuticals.
Women who were delivering babies.
Women who were stopping other women from bleeding to death.
This is that type of woman.
So when Jesus finds himself on the cross.
You and I follow the fairy tale.
And we say, this is a translation of some Hebrew.
No, it's not.
There isn't any Hebrew going around in the first century.
Yeah.
This is a Christos.
That is a Greek concept.
I was telling my class last Saturday of the superiority of ancient Greek.
And why it is that we have the expression.
It's Greek to me, right?
And not why don't we say it about every other language?
And why did the Romans say that about Greek?
There's a reason for that.
There's a scientific reason for that.
And it's my job to push those students into the place that they can absorb that.
They can see that superior functioning of the language and they can benefit from it.
How do they do that?
By the translation.
So when we have a text like the apocalypse,
and John is writing about a very specific woman called the morning star.
When he's writing about her and has to insert Jesus,
he just freely does so.
Does it bother him that she is wearing feminine garb?
No, John writes it, right?
He leaves it in because she's the morning star and we all know what the morning star does.
We all know her.
We all know her.
We know she drinks the blood of young boys.
We know that she does is Jesus in invoking lamea from the cross,
screaming about how thirsty he is.
If he invokes the goddess herself of this history,
past that comes to Libya and Georgia,
which are somehow connected thanks to the civilians, right?
Love it.
Here she is.
If he is invoking this right,
we give him a reason to be arrested in a public park at 4 a.m. with a naked boy.
What was that bandage doing?
What was that bandage doing?
By the way, for those of you who want to make Jesus's bandages underwear,
there's a tendency for translators to do that.
Yeah, you know that you're wrong.
You know that there's no word there for what soldiers and hunters,
anybody else who's girding up their loins, puts on.
Kid doesn't have it.
He's Gumnos.
But he does have a bandage with him.
We know these bandages are impregnated with drugs.
And does he have a bandage because his lamea invoking boy,
the only blood-sucking vampire God is with him in the garden.
Yeah.
Yeah, I think we're getting closer.
I think we're getting closer to seeing.
In order to see Jesus, you have to see lamea.
You have to see lamea.
There's a reason that they're described the way they are.
The language is a fingerprint.
It preserves the crime scene, preserves the evidence that we need.
It's like the amber that preserves the mosquito.
So we have the old DNA from 40 million years ago.
Yeah.
Nice.
For those of you, I'm providing.
Thank you for coming tonight.
I'm hoping that you are seeing.
That you are seeing that point in history for what it is.
We should be able to see that now in the present.
Should be able to bring that past and then that future together.
The daughter of lamea is the civil herophily.
That's what everything is about.
That's why we early Christians call ourselves civilists.
That's why we don't care when the Romans call us civilists.
John is preserving those sibling works.
Those sibling visions.
Beautiful.
Next Saturday, I'll be having the class again in the morning.
That time is set, but I want to announce that tomorrow.
At 9 a.m.
Mountain Standard,
I will be opening the dojo for people to come in and to work out.
Because I want this class that's proceeding to be the best of the best.
I have to work with them to really exercise.
I'm providing that time for you.
If you can come, great.
If you can't find it'll be in the dough.
It'll be on the discord.
Every time that we start this program again,
we repost the discord.
Anybody who wants to show up can do that.
Anybody from the class who wants to come tomorrow at 9 o'clock,
please show up.
We'll drill.
We'll work out.
We'll get exercised.
I appreciate your diligence.
I think we're going to stop there tonight.
I want you to thank those of you who will be coming to our special Valentine's show,
which will be next Friday.
When you come to the Valentine's show,
those of you who have the strength to be considered sons of Heracles,
to put on the ivy, to put on the dress, to put on the woman's kit,
those of you who have that courage to stand for the image that we are bringing.
If we want to, I mean, come on, what are we all doing here?
We're trying to expose.
We're trying to bring this investigation to a conclusion.
We don't want to be here forever.
None of us wants to join a cult.
None of us wants to become known in the future for our associations as a cult.
We want to see the reality.
We want to bring that to the world.
That's what we are here doing.
Those of us who are dressing up, great.
It should be a lot of fun.
It should be a lot of fun.
I hope that everybody is comfortable.
This will all be above the board, just a group of men discussing themselves and history
and wearing the kit of Lady Babylon.
Have a good evening.
Is that horse called destiny?
I think she ran off without me.
