Show me the real Moses.
They sell you knock off Jesus, facsimile is a real mystery. Your poster boy pedophile drug addict was made by Rome to enslave all of you. Knock, knock. Can't you hear me? I'm at the door.
Christine Theory X, Black Waters, Black Bentham, Julius Caesar, Hung Medea's portrait on the Temple of Venus. The producer, Divine, Julian Library of the Renaissance.
Sibylene Brooks, so cold with the breezy, poisonous kisses. She sells seashells by the sea shore.
Christine Theory X, Black Waters, Black Bentham, Julius Caesar, Hung Medea's portrait on the Temple of Venus.
Welcome back to Lady Babylon initiating Apocalypse. Nice to see you back tonight. I'm going to show you something. I'm going to tell you right off the bat what we're going to be doing.
We're going straight to Moses. We're going to look at Moses and God, and we're going to watch them get completely high together.
We're going to see what it is in the original text. We're going to watch the beautiful interlacing of the drugs with the cult vision.
And we're going to see Moses at his best. Are you ready for this? You're not. You're not because this, this is the actual text.
You have not seen this. Nobody has seen this because of the big lie. The big lie is that this text was originally in Hebrew.
It was not tonight. We're peeling through that historical trauma and we're going right to the language. Why? Because we're scientists. That's what we do.
That's what we do tonight on Lady Babylon. We're going to look at Moses and Yahoo. The same time linguistically. This is going to be lovely.
You're going to, oh, it's, it's so scrumptious. I want to start tonight and say we've got a couple of people that I need to give shout outs to.
I gave a recent interview. Go ahead and bring it up. Yes, here we go on higher side chats, right?
And unfortunately, higher side was bombarded by people that were angry, angry audience talking about, I'm going to pull my subscription.
Take out my investment. I am going to march off in the distance in a huffy tirade.
And you know what? It didn't matter because higher side stayed the course.
You know, stayed the course for the sake of honor, for the sake of honor.
So what I would like to ask you to do is to show higher side exactly how much it means to toe the line of reality to us.
How much does that mean to Satanic congregation? It means a lot. It means a lot.
Well, sir, I've got a flash, another ally here. This is the curious man's podcast, curious man's podcast, right?
And look what we've got here. Oh, God speaks with Dr. Amen. That's Matt. Matt was fantastic.
I want everybody to know about Matt for the sake of the curious man's podcast.
I want you to know about that. Now, the other thing I want to say, take that down, Chewie.
The other thing I want to say is I'm going to be on Danny Jones, Danny Jones.
And I know can't wait for it. Can't wait. It's just going to be lovely.
And I love the fact that every time I give an interview, the response is usually somewhere between thank you very much.
This was fantastic. Now, if we can just figure out how to get it edited properly to get presentable to the audience.
It's that fiery. It is that. Oh, God, the material Danny just brought it out.
He brought it out. It was gorgeous. My commendations to Danny Jones. Fantastic.
We got in there into the material and I think you're going to like it.
So we're waiting on that. Okay. I want to take you in.
I want to take you in. Are you ready? Here we go. Boom. Give me that first source, Chewie.
All right. Let's go to this. I want you to see the real tonight.
I just want you to sit back and I want you to envision the real.
Now, where have we been up until this point in the story?
Go ahead and flash that first text up there. This is what we're going to be looking at.
But go ahead and take it down. But let me tell you what's happened before this.
You know what I mean? Moses, whose name is a third century construction of Museus.
Right? So the author of the Bible, who's writing in the third century,
they are pulling down the tradition that is the Orphic Mystery Tradition,
the Oracular Tradition, right? Coming through one woman, the Medua,
or as the Greeks called her, Medea, right? And these people are working.
They're working on getting things done.
Moses is out there in the, you know, doing his thing with his sheep.
And all of a sudden, what happens to Moses all of a sudden?
He finds that bush, that bush that burns, but it doesn't stop burning.
It doesn't get consumed. It just burns. Look, you can light it.
There it goes. Look, it comes back. It comes back. It's going to come back.
There it is. This, but we're going to look at this is where Moses has gotten to.
And tonight we are going to learn the name of Jehovah.
We're going to learn the name of Yahoo. We're going to learn it.
Are you ready? It's in the creek. It's in there in the creek.
Are you ready? And everybody will finally see it.
It's gorgeous. Now it is the sacred name of God.
So it is, it is with my utmost humble pleasure to be able to bring it to you.
It's gorgeous. Let's go. Hit me with this first text.
I'm just going to read it to you people.
Yeah. So he says, look, look, it's Moe and God.
And they're sitting there with the fumes of this thing, fumigating themselves.
And he says, look, nobody's going to believe me.
Nobody's going to believe me if I go back and tell him I spoke with God, right?
And then what am I going to do?
And so Curios turns to him and he says from the, you know, he's speaking.
Where is he speaking? By the way, he's speaking out of the smoke, baby.
Tito esti. You know, what's in your hand?
What's in your hand, brah? And he says a rabdos.
Moses says a rabdos is in my hand. Go to the next one.
Wait a minute. What's Moses walking around with?
What's he walking around with?
He put this thing up there and people don't understand.
Now, again, we're going to get into the fact that this is so complex and the Hebrew is so simple, right?
You're pulling out a layer of technicality, right?
When you have to translate the Greek to the Hebrew.
So that's what's happening here.
And what is this rabdo?
And look, it's a rod people.
Look at all the different types of things that it is.
We'll look at number one, the magic wand.
Look at the fishing rod.
Oh, yeah. Look at this.
This is gorgeous.
Yeah. Yeah. The rap.
So it carries this thing around.
Who's the rap?
So that's the singer.
That's the singer, brah.
You didn't think Psalm was a Hebrew word, did you?
It's a Greek word.
Um, um, yeah, fantastic.
So this rub done hit me with the next hit me with the next example.
What is this thing?
Moses is carrying.
Well, let's look at its early prototype right now.
This is the magic wand that's used by Cersei.
So when everybody's watching Harry Potter and they're like,
Oh, but Harry, you, you won baby.
Point your one point it right at Hermione.
Don't do that.
Don't do that.
Don't point that one.
Harry, stop.
Um, this is the one that Cersei is using.
And she is using it in an archaic, um, bronze age,
late bronze age form.
And what does this thing do?
This thing's a vehicle for her to transform a person from a
sentient to an in sentient.
Yes, a toy, if you will.
Isn't that neat?
That's bronze age stuff.
This is a tool.
Remember you doctors, when you go to work, what is your symbol?
It is this thing with a serpent wrapped around it.
Oh, you mean this thing is medical?
Yes.
Yes.
And remember, please, remember, please that there are ways to
introduce drugs to the human body and the ancient world.
And one of them is on board a thing that you and I today, the
proper terminology would be something like medicated dildo.
And so here we have it.
Here we have it.
Who uses these things?
Back to the, back to the Cersei bit.
Yes.
Love it.
People, look at this.
That's in the Odyssey.
That's in the Odyssey.
Let's float a little bit.
Look, the thing which Athena touched Odysseus seriously,
seriously.
Did you know that Athena was touching Odysseus?
She touched him with her golden rub done.
And what happens when you touch Odysseus with your golden rub done?
He looks younger.
He looks younger.
Yeah.
You remember the Imperial theory acts.
Yeah.
What do you think that technology was developed?
Right.
Oh God.
This is lovely.
Okay.
Let's bring back the text.
That's too much.
That got a little bit too seasoned.
Too much seasoning.
Look what Athena did.
This is her golden rub done that she's going to be applying to Odysseus.
Yeah.
That verb there.
It means that she's applying it.
Yeah.
Yeah.
She is covering it.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
She is covering it.
Yeah.
She is doing it.
She's doing that mistress of the arts, the medical arts thing.
Go.
And what else can you do with a rub done like the one Moses has got in antiquity?
What can you do with one in the third century especially?
Tell us.
Tell us.
Bring us to the third century.
Look.
Look at Hermes.
Lift it up.
His rub done the one that he uses to fel go your eyes to fel go your eyes.
Yes.
He uses it to fel go you.
What is that?
That's when somebody takes over your mind.
Have you ever had somebody take over your mind and introduce thoughts?
And you say that sounds quite crazy and somewhat ridiculous.
Well, it turns out Manfred, whenever they have drug parties of this magnitude and excellence,
that there is a little bit of programming that can be done.
Fantastic.
You know how long you can keep somebody in a cage?
Yeah.
Wait a minute.
Is this the Bronze Age?
Yeah.
It's the time that they're figuring out when all of these dotes and antidotes will work
with and against each other.
Right.
So, yeah.
Good.
Remember master formula kind of stuff.
Go to the back to this one.
Look, who is it?
Who is it?
Who's got the thing?
It's Hermes, right?
It's the Angulos.
Remember the text tells us that Moses was visited by an Angulos in that bush that burned.
He was visited.
Where was that Angulos?
Within the flocks.
Within the flocks, plus.
Oh, God.
Oh, God.
Are you beginning to see what that Angulos does?
Are you beginning to see it?
Look at Moses, everybody.
We all got off the timeship so fast.
We asked, you know, here it is.
Were you surprised that Moses is heavy, heavy, heavy into drugs?
Are you surprised?
Yeah.
Not only that, he's into the good ones.
Watch what he's about to do.
This guy is a tripper.
He is a tripper out there.
And I wanted you to see this because I want you to put Moses and Jesus right next to each
other.
And remember, I'm going to ask you how much time separates Moses from Jesus?
Well, in the fairy tale world, it's a thousand or so years.
In history, it's only about 250 to 300 years.
Separates the two.
Right?
Moses as a creation of the third century, as a knockoff of Museus.
Right?
This character is already established.
This prophet is already there.
Why do you think there are songs of Moses?
Right?
We are working from a third century environment.
So what we are seeing in the third century is being sucked into our fabrication.
Did he just call the Old Testament a fabrication?
Yes, he did.
He did in a poorly done translation.
Oh, God.
What happened to the scholars?
His brain drain or something?
I don't know.
The grammarians usually have their stuff together.
So let's stick with them.
Let's stick with those Greek grammarians and see what they record in all of us.
Okay.
Give me the next one.
What is the...
What is the rabdon on the Hebrew side?
Surely this is the source.
Wait a minute.
A staff?
This is the mate.
And what is this?
A staff, a raw chef, a branch, and then metaphorically a tribe?
Okay.
There's not.
Does everybody see how the depth we've gone now from the depths to the kiddie pool?
We're now at the shallow end, right?
With the kids and their diapers are in the pool.
Did you ever get in the pool with a kid with his diaper on?
Oh, God.
Let me tell you something.
I never did that with my kids ever.
Never would I take a...
Put a kid in a diaper in a pool.
That's so gross.
Okay.
Okay.
That's okay.
Stop.
Where's the whips for such things?
Ryan, that's bad.
That's bad.
Paternal.
Be good with your parenting parents.
Public service message.
If your kids in a diaper, don't take them swimming.
Oh, God.
Why does that make me so mad?
I don't know.
Let's go to the next one.
It's just...
The yahoo gets me pumped.
Okay.
Look, so what happens?
Whoops.
We need to go back to the previous text, Chewie.
I'm sorry.
What happens?
Nope.
One more.
That's the...
Boom.
Yeah.
What else does the ongelos that comes out of the bush, out of that pure, out of that
flocks, that lightning, that uranium power, right?
And if you don't know what I'm talking about, it's because you haven't seen them do it,
right?
You haven't seen them do the right.
Don't worry.
You catch up.
But here's the angel.
And what's the angel saying?
They not only take control of your eyes, but what do they do?
They raise those who are sleeping.
Yeah.
They resurrect those who are sleeping.
Yes.
Now you know why the discussion...
Gosh, I bring the Greek to people.
The more people say, oh, that makes more sense.
That makes more sense that that's how they're...
Right.
The fairy tale actually doesn't make sense, right?
It's the...
And you know, that's what the naked kid with Jesus does.
When Jesus was arrested in the public park of Forian with a naked boy screaming, I'm not
a trafficker.
When a swat team took him down, there was no question about what he was actually doing.
That rap that was on that kid's private parts, that naked kid that was on his private parts,
he was siphoning.
Jesus Christ was siphoning a drug through it.
Oh, God, it's horrific.
I know.
And I know that this reality is particularly disturbing.
And you people at Satanic initiation, you love it.
You love exposing it for what it is, right?
Because come on, come here, Jesus.
That's right on his buttocks.
Do you know why he deserves...
Jesus Christ deserves a striping on his buttocks?
Because he was arrested at 4 a.m.
with a naked kid.
Yes.
Don't you understand how much of antiquity, especially in the third century when this thing
is written, how much of antiquity is driven by the great mother.
The Balkans are all followers of the great mother.
Oh, God, it's a time of child protection.
Jesus is working against that current.
And it's all over.
It's all over.
It's all over his quotes.
It's all over everything he's touching.
Oh, God, let's get back to the text.
Was that a creepy portrait there?
Sometimes it scares me what you find.
Okay, let's go one more.
I just want to see this is generic serpent because I'm going to conjure the serpent now.
Are you ready?
Because, you know, there was a serpent involved with this meeting of coming out of the bush
with the angel.
Ah, smoke and it doesn't stop burning.
Vision.
What's the vision?
Oh, let's go bring it.
Give me that next one.
He says, what's in your hand?
This is Yahoo.
Yahoo turns to Moses and misses this fumigation.
And he says, hey, what's in your hand?
Moses says, I got the rob done.
And he says, okay, throw it on the ground.
And he throws it on the ground.
And then he says, watch what happens.
The thing becomes a serpent, becomes a what becomes a dracon, not one in general, one
very specific serpent.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And Moses says, yikes, runs away.
Right.
And Yahoo says, get back over here.
Grab it.
I want you to grab it by a part of its body.
What part of its body do you want me to grab it by?
Give me the next text.
Nope.
After that.
That's ultimately what the Hebrew says.
It uses the word for tail.
Grab it by the tail.
But I want you to see the kintros and what it is on the Greek side.
And here's the text, by the way, for, look, this angel came to him in this puri flogos.
Look, there he is.
He's coming out of the bush.
So I want you to see people.
I'm just giving you the text, right?
And what's happening?
The thing burns, but it doesn't, it doesn't get consumed.
Hit me with the next one.
Oh God, let's fly.
Let's fly.
Catch him up.
What is the thing that's making all this smoke that you and I, God, are sucking up?
It turns out it's this Bramble Bush, baby.
It turns out it's this Bramble Bush.
Somebody get me 10 of those.
We'll import those things to where we are.
I'll sit here and talk to God all day.
You know, when people ask me, I do the medical side.
And so it sounds funny to me when people say, do you think they really use drugs in antiquity?
Sounds funny to me.
And it sounds like we're simpletons, to be honest.
But this kind of stuff shouldn't be surprising by this point in the game, right?
These fumigations that are going on and all the medical stuff, the Christing, it's all part of the same package.
Give me that.
Well, after the bathhouse.
Yeah, give me that one.
What is, what is the flocks that we're looking for?
Remember people, we're in a cult.
No, don't take me seriously.
I told them we're in a cult.
So this is the atmosphere.
So when that messenger comes to you, right, where are they coming from?
That flame?
It's hard for us to translate that flame.
What kind of flame is this flame though?
It's that flame of lightning, that flame of the thunderstruck, right?
Take the word for this flame and you turn it into somebody who is thunderstruck.
How do you get to being thunderstruck?
Right?
To those of you who have gotten close to the throne of Satan and to those of you who have, who have taken your seat upon the throne of Satan.
Those of you who have the star in your hand, you understand, you understand the meaning.
You feel that meaning.
You feel it, right?
At the orgy, you understand.
Oh God, look at what kind of transmission is going on.
This is gorgeous.
Take a minute, take a minute.
Give me that text again.
Give me the next text.
As soon as there, it's too much time.
They're going to get it too fast.
Speak to me.
Yahoo, here it is.
Okay, everybody, everybody, this is brand new.
You've never seen this trick.
Are you ready?
I'm going to give it to you right now.
The words of God himself.
Are you ready?
I'm not talking.
I'm not talking Zeus either.
Right?
Zeus is one of many.
Just as almond is the eighth.
And remember, you can always have a rebellion against the gods and you can take that monest, that monest monstrosity and turn it into something.
And turn it into a historical reality like they did under Akhenaten.
And do you know what they did?
They made that one God monstrosity, that monest monstrosity, that as soon as Akhenaten bit it, they broke down all its monuments.
And they said, we're going back to almond.
We're going back to the eighth.
Why was that so critical?
For the sake of all the gods.
Gods like justice.
Why was that so critical?
Why did that restore what the Egyptians had already had?
It's the same thing that drags down.
It's the same power that drags down classical wisdom.
You cannot mingle classical wisdom and any monest belief.
You can't.
They don't work together.
They will destroy each other or one will get the upper hand.
But somebody's going down.
They cannot coexist.
It is a monstrosity.
Frankenstein.
It's very Frankensteinian.
That's fantastic.
That's not a word.
Go.
That's not what they meant when they said, you must coin so many words.
It's not what they meant.
What did you say?
Remember, he said, ego emi hoon.
Doesn't that sound nice?
Before I tell you what that means,
go to the next one.
Because what could the Hebrew language do with that?
The Hebrew language, just put that verb, I am.
And then who?
Some kind of relative.
And then followed by the same verb again.
I am.
Right?
Okay.
I am who I am.
And that's how it ends up in all of the translations.
That's how it ends up in all of the English translations.
Sounds very Popeye-esque.
Right?
I am what I am.
That is not what the Greek says, as you can see.
Even if you don't know Greek, you can see it's different.
It's not just one word repeated twice.
Remember, when you're going from ancient Hebrew to ancient Greek,
you are stepping up the level of technical difficulty.
Right?
The Hebrew sentence there is a quick run and a jump and maybe a couple of twists.
Right?
The Greek is a lengthy retain.
Look at what they've done with it.
Right?
So I am what I am.
Is the Hebrew side.
Not ready for the actual, the original words of God.
Are you ready?
I am the being.
I am being.
I am being.
Think about the difference there.
I am that I am.
Like gangsta.
Gangsta ya says I am what I am, baby.
Right?
You can see that.
You can respect that.
Right?
What are the judges?
What do we get?
It's a 7.5.
7.5.
Watch the artistic detail.
The technical.
Do you know what the whole on is?
Look at what this is.
First of all, the first thing we have here is ego and ego is a personal pronoun.
You don't have to use that in ancient Greek.
The personal pronouns are used for emphasis, ownership.
Right?
It's not just something being done.
I'm the one doing it.
Me.
You know what he says?
He says I am ha on.
Who is he saying he is?
He says he is the one.
We get a definite article ha and then we get on the participle.
The one being.
I am the being.
I am the act itself of existence.
Which if you think about it has a kind of a much larger reach.
Then whatever I am baby.
Right?
Gangsta.
Gangsta.
Yeah.
It's a little bit over the top that way.
Right?
Very tribal.
Has a very tribal taste to it.
You know, and the level of technology is a little bit lower.
It's a little bit, you know, there's a reason they sent Jesus to Egypt to get educated.
Right?
With all that money.
There's a reason he did.
Right?
It's just because things were not good.
Stories were not, were not up and running.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's a shame.
But everybody knew that about the province.
Right?
Okay.
So it's just the way it is.
It's a fragment of history.
Down there in Alexandria, they were kicking everybody's butt.
Don't get me wrong.
Alexandria.
Woo.
That's where it was all happening.
That stuff just sucked in the world.
Right?
How can you come stand next to that?
You cannot.
Give me the next one.
Give me the next one.
Oh, yeah.
There we go.
Um, so here he said this thing that I just told you, I am being, I am being.
This is my own.
I only own.
This is my what name.
This is my Ionic name.
Now, um, how did the Hebrew handle this?
How did the Hebrew handle this and take every, everything off track after it with it?
All the English translations are going to follow this.
Right?
Um, look at forever at the end.
Yeah.
They'll lob.
Right.
Last time I saw, that's what it meant.
Yeah.
Right.
Fantastic.
Is that what, is that what Ionian means?
No.
No.
And they have those words.
They have several for something that goes on without end.
Yeah.
And it usually has a form of a on it because there's a lot of different dialects and developing.
So you get a lot of, you know, sometimes some repeat.
So, yeah, um, this is not it though.
Ionian, what is Ionian?
Look, you and I are going to go to the synagogue from the second century.
And I want you to look at it.
Okay.
We, you and I are in a second century synagogue.
And do you know who is on the walls?
Ion.
Because we know what Ionic life is.
Ion stands there and around him is this ribbon.
And that ribbon has 12 distinct separations on it.
Each of those separations is a house.
You mean, wait, an astrological stuff.
You mean the first Jews were astrologers?
Yes.
It's a huge part of why you have a sunna goge.
Why you have a synagogue.
That's a Greek word.
It's a Greek word.
Yes.
So, um, they're doing astrology.
Isn't that fantastic astrology and the Romans, by the way, Romans get a little bit upset about that.
And they have several decrees.
And it's kind of weird to read them.
The first time I read when I was like, what?
It's a decree to exile all the astrologers and Jews.
It's almost like they're an astrological sect, not an ethnicity.
That's how the Romans are treating it.
Yeah, Romans have something against those astrologers.
You know why?
It was rubbing up.
It always does.
It rubs up against rulership.
Right.
Yeah.
Because you can take somebody's birth and blow it up and determine everything.
Yeah.
You know what happens?
That stuff always happens.
The next thing you know, some kind of insurrection.
You can't tolerate that.
You have to kick out those astrologers.
Yeah.
That's the Roman, the Roman way.
Okay.
Thank you, Rome.
I kind of get it.
I kind of understand where you're going because you're looking at it from a civic kind of standpoint.
I understand.
But I never really got why you associated those two until I realized that the texts are all,
you'll see throughout any time that we study the Septuagint.
You're going to be shocked at how much of the astrology tech there is there.
How much of it stays.
So don't be surprised.
They're worshiping Ion on the wall.
Right.
On the wall.
Second century.
We've been there.
We've seen them.
Look them up.
Look them up.
And there we are.
Okay.
So what is my Ionic name?
If you can remember the last passage, we looked at Livy with the, oh, I'm sorry.
That was a slip.
The Impress.
Right.
We're talking about the Impress.
Anyway, this is my Ionic name.
This is my Ionian name.
What is the Ionian thing then?
What is that?
Pray tell me.
Amen.
Amen hotel.
Where is that guy?
He changed his name.
By the way, Tutank Amon changed his name from Tutank Aten because of the whole way that
monotheism dragged the Egyptians into the dirt.
Yeah.
Fantastic.
So what is that Ionian go down?
I think it's this one.
Yep.
Boom.
This word, Ion, we are here with Ion.
What are we doing with Ion?
We are mourning.
We are mourning.
Wait a minute.
Wait a minute.
Does anybody, does anybody smell Adonis?
Yes.
Yes.
Now you know why we have to take the name Adonis and we have to say no.
This is not actually Greek or Blaschian, but it's blah, blah, blah.
And we have to come up with our own roots.
That's what we're doing.
When we back translate, when we create a text, the one we're going to claim is a translation,
right?
That's what we have to do.
That's the tools that we have to work with.
It's like you're working from your own prison, so to speak.
You've painted yourself into a corner linguistically.
This is what we have to do.
What is the Ion?
What is it really coming from?
Right?
If it's not meaning this always and for all time, it's the groan that we have.
It's the mourning that we have for Adonis.
It's the mourning that we have for Adonis.
It is our shout.
Look at that first line at the end.
It says to cry Ii.
To cry Ii.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Tell me what it means to cry Ii.
Hit the next one.
What does that mean?
Nancy, I hope this strikes a chord with you.
Look, what is this Ia thing?
Well, it's an epic form.
It's used for Gaia.
It's used for Gaia.
Look at that first line in Greek.
It's so beautiful.
Fusizos Ia.
Who is Ia?
Ia is she who is the nature living.
Literally, it says the living nature.
Ia is living nature.
Now, look here at the bottom, number two.
Look here at number two.
And what does it say?
It's originally the name of Colchis.
Colchis.
And what do you mean?
What is Colchis?
Colchis is a city and it is also the name of a woman.
Yes.
And Colchis is equivalent with a very dystopic switching of constants.
One of them jumps in front of the other one.
It's like that.
But you look at the Victorians.
If you don't believe me, go to Alice in Wonderland.
Look at the Victorians and see what they say about Colchis.
What is Colchis?
It's not only the name of Medea.
It is also the name of the purple.
Isn't that nice?
Isn't that nice?
It's the name of the purple.
All of this cult that we have tried to cut away the false Hebrew to look at the original Greek.
All of this cult has led us right back to that original mystery.
This is the reason that Medea's students, the Magi, came after Jesus.
They saw his star.
Now do you know what it means?
Yeah.
Jesus.
By the way, I want you as we're thinking about Moses entering into these drug rights.
Remember the Egyptians catch up?
The Egyptians catch up.
They do the same thing.
The very same thing.
They make that dracon.
Why?
Because they knew what holding up the serpent meant.
By the way, is Jesus itching his belly around here somewhere?
That's why he wasn't pitching because he was belly itching.
Go.
Don't you remember that?
Keep going.
There we go.
Yep.
Let's try that one.
Here are some variations.
No, that's always variations of it.
We're past that.
What else does God want us to do?
By the way, we're still in the fog.
Does anybody feel it?
I feel a little bit of the effects.
We're still in that fog.
And what is that fog making us think?
Well, God is telling us plunder the Egyptians.
Right?
Plunder them.
Wait a minute.
He's using a term that reflects the activities of a lace lace.
Oh my goodness.
Now don't lose it.
Remember, this is the third century.
Right?
So where do you think?
Where do you think they're getting their images from?
It's what's in the environment around them.
Yeah.
Love it.
Love it.
Plunder the Egyptians says the lace lace.
Moses is like dog.
This guy is down.
Hit me with the next one.
Yeah.
There's the plundering.
Yeah.
Yeah.
God, you know, really stripped somebody bare.
There's not, there's not much.
Yeah.
Good.
Look what you do.
You take from your enemy.
You plunder from your enemy.
Right?
Because that's what we got going on here.
We got warfare going on.
And he says, what's in your hand?
What's in your hand?
And he says, Rhabdos.
Wait a minute.
Haven't we been here?
This is the Rhabdos, right?
I'm just catching us up and go to the next one.
Jesus.
Oh, I knew it.
Jesus was going to be dragged into this.
Oh, God.
Oh, God.
Jesus.
Speak up.
Jesus.
Remember, I just used the Greek word office, right?
For that serpent.
That serpent was specifically the one that's in the garden.
This is the office that opens your eyes.
Right?
Yeah.
And here he is.
Jesus.
Tell us what are we going to do?
We're going to elevate or introduce the use of those serpents.
And if you drink a phonosemone, a death inducer, it's not going
to hurt you.
And you will heal other people.
Right?
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus and Jesus and Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus, in Christ Jesus, the word office.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
To be reborn again. Um, you don't understand
You don't know the Ionian name. You just don't know it. You don't know the being
Do you understand? No, I see that's the point. You doomed you do not to it's that cool and
That allows the Christ to select
To be very selective with initiations because there's only some of us who have ears to hear
Everybody else is gonna get slaughtered. Do you see the modest tendencies?
Do you see how destructive the modest tendencies are? Oh?
It's fantastic. Let's go. Um, yeah, let's go to the next one quickly here quickly. I want you to be reading this story as I'm
As I'm translating right. What's God gonna do? What else God, please tell me from the bush tell me
I'm gonna open your mouth. I'm gonna open your mouth. What are you gonna put my mouth God?
remember
the only place on
God
That museus, I'm sorry that Moses ever gets to see is
His buttocks
Yeah, you mean
Moses saw
Yahoo's anus
Yeah, he did
He had to be put it's so powerful to see the anus
of
Jehovah
It is so powerful. You got to be put into a rock
Right, they're gonna have to cement you in there because it's boom when you see that thing walkable. Oh, he's like look
I'm gonna put you in this rock right now. I don't know how much of that burning bush is taking its effect
I don't know what we did with that venom in that rob down and
All I remember was you told me to try to pick it up by something
To pick it up by something and that's something in the Greek is a membrum. We really
Wait, what yes, God said reach out Moses reach out your hand and grab
Grab the dragon's male member
Grab that the reason we have to have the membrum
We relay and Latin is because you would be shocked that Moses and God are sitting there talking about a
penis and
God is like
reach out and grab it
Egyptians are doing the same thing
Don't be shocked
Okay, the text openly says those
Fatima case those
It's often translated as sorcerers, but it's sorcerer doesn't you know sorcerer is Harry Potter
Right, it's fantasy land. These are people who have immense drug knowledge and not in a nice so way
They're aggressive
Right, and they get involved in governments
Right that kind of approach that kind of cult. That's why even the Romans at one point like oh
This cannot go on these Balkans. They have to be stopped
Right, you're like what the Romans persecuted boggins. I thought I thought they're
Yeah, no they did
Because there's a power
There's a power to the Bacchic
Mystery when you have those churches they take power
Yeah, that's how it is, bro. That's how it is. It's just a taste of monotheism
Right just it's released as soon as you stop the stranglehold, right? Just it's just that spanks, right?
You know, I'm gonna strangle right. That's what it's it's that moment
Yeah, thunder struck remember we're getting thunder struck
Yeah, fantastic. Um go to the next one. Let's get a little bit more of the story just some of the salacious stuff. Yep
Somewhere down there
Right, he's gonna put in his what is he gonna put in his mouth go down here go down here
He's gonna put no, no, no
Yeah, yeah, we he's gonna open his mouth and he's gonna he's gonna really apply it
You know what I mean? What's what's Jehovah putting in my mouth? He's putting that lame. That's how there you can see it
All right, so remember what do you do with the wand?
You capture and control somebody's thoughts and what do you put into their mouth?
You know, you put the sayings
You put the words they're gonna come right out right out. It's very it's basically just essential, you know
Sophisticated chemical programming. We're not doing anything different from what Cersei was doing
But Cersei figured out a way how to turn a dude into a total slave and make him like a sex fiend
Isn't that nice just for toy for whenever you you wanted to otherwise you're giving him drugs to pacify him
Right, isn't that cool? That's kind of yeah, all you got to do is you got to give him that one
combo that makes them
Enter death and then you bring him back as soon as you do that. They're so grateful
Right that you become a gatekeeper
right remember John Seatsy says
Cersei went back to find Odysseus when he went back to Ptolemy. He said went back to find Odysseus and
it says
Seatsy says she killed him and resurrected him. Yeah. Yeah, she was restarting
She was restarting something didn't happen
Right, and he was just always sitting there on the beach right crying
You know, you want to know what Odysseus did for years. He sat on a beach and cried
He cried man that guy had so many so many drugs pumped in him
He could you know, who's giving him to him Hermes is the first one. He gives it. Here's the best stuff
Here's the best stuff. Oh, it's fantastic that angel from that bush always brings that first rush
Yeah, that first drug
Again, these are drug combos. These aren't symbols. Okay, go ahead
So don't get all excited about which one is the magic drug because it doesn't exist. All right
What is what is this sign? Yeah, we're just let's keep going. Let's keep going. I skip one keep going go down here
What what do we have there? Yeah, hit that one. Perfect. Perfect. We're gonna expect to see tata top people
You just have to I just want you to buckle up because we're gonna see those
Those totally horrific things right those things that are way out of touch with reality
Yeah, the things that are you know, they can't happen that way
It just doesn't make sense for them to have but they do things we really can't explain and go ahead hit me with the next one
What else do you want me to do?
Jehovah you want me to what? Oh, I'm gonna kill your
Firstborn child brah. That's what I want you to do
You want me to go in there to Pharaoh and one of the things that I'm gonna say to him is this I'm gonna kill
Your first born. Yes. Okay. All right. I get it. I get it. I'm there. I feel it. I feel it
But give me the give me the whole picture. We're almost done people. Look at this. Look at this
Okay, I'm gonna go do what you say. This is what Moses does he tells him
I'm gonna go do what you say he walks away. You know, I mean, it's not under the influence
He's walking. He's just going to a place to stay with his wife
He's found a motel six right. This is not the fanciest place on the planet. This is not
You know beds may not be the cleanest
Right. Um, you can get away with some things here that maybe yeah, I don't know makes us feel uncomfortable a little bit
Don't worry about that. I got this job done
Um, I'm perfectly bachic. I'm exactly where I need to be as a bachan
So, um, I'm here with my wife and what happens. Oh
one of the one of the
Angeloi
Who serves the kurios shows up and guess what it says says he comes up gets in moses his face
And he gets ready to kill him
he's gonna kill him and what does he do when
Sephora sees that's moses his wife, right when she sees that he's about to get killed because gangsta ya
has sent this
Friggin enforcer out to kill him
Right. Do you see what happens now? You know why we brought
Medea to adam now. Do you understand?
What that was for didn't you understand what those kidnappings were all about?
Oh god tried reading herodotus people
Oh, where's the seminarian? He doesn't know what herodotus is. It's a person
Oh seminarian seminarian buttocks
Deserves deserves to be to be punished for not
Knowing
Boys you're gonna step in and if you're not careful next thing, you know, you're gonna wake up in a
Drowsy in a garden. Can you imagine peter james and john who are so drowsy?
They've been so drugged. These are teenage boys, right?
And they've been so drugged that they can't stay awake and there's this creepy guy jesus with a kid
Who's a young kid and he's got his penis wrapped up and he's with this young kid
Can you imagine waking up this one of those boys at what point do you say? Hey, you know, this adventure's over
Right this I can't take this stuff anymore. Look the guy can't even stand. He's stumbling around
He's got all this purple goop on his face. Looks like clotting blood
What has he been doing to that kid for the last hour?
Yeah, did you know jesus had that kid in there for an hour
Now their hour could be an hour and a half two hours on our time
Oh god, what's he he's got enough time with that kid
And that you know, he was saying right and he was saying oh god
I don't want this take this take this cup away that poor kid cup that poor kid cup
I feel so bad for that kid. He could have had a normal life, baby. He could have come on jesus
Right, maybe he sensed that and maybe that's some of the brightness in jesus's life
Is it maybe in the end when you're saying I don't want to drink this cup?
Because he had to drink his communion right out of that kid's private parts
The purple is going to be absorbed in his mouth
Yeah, you know, he's going to get the galene the antidote through that kid's semen
And I can't tell you how disgusting it is for me to think
About what jesus was doing with that naked boy. I know it's disgusting
But that's where we have to go for reality if we want to get down
Let's hit the last couple of verses here. It gets my goat right now. It gets my goat that we don't
that um
We don't have a proper appreciation
For what we're looking at in the symbols tonight. I just want you to remember what that symbol means
I want you to remember and I want you to know what that symbol covers
I want you to know it Penelope
You're my darling
And I believe you're gorgeous. I believe you're gorgeous. Thank you for coming tonight Penelope. Okay. Let's go back
We got a couple of texts left. That's it hit us. Yeah, wherever we skip. I don't know right there
Here we go. There's a ram something was written on a ram. Oh
God, did I miss it again?
Right something's written on the ram remember
And not to conform it gave you these sources last week. He told you
Tacitus the roman historian very capable roman historian says that the jews are
Exiles right and common and antiquative exiles something they were the only people ever right it's happening all the time
It's movements migrations of people right disturbances civic disturbances and migrations
And he says that the jews
Were one of these migrations and they originally came from crete and that they threw off the worship of the
almond
the eighth
remember the eighth
That we're looking for in the apocalypse. He threw off
almond threw them off exiled them
They were not allowed to become monotheists
Right almond prevented it. Do you see?
Do you see?
It's written all of this is written on that
on that ram
It's written on the skin of that ram and the dragon is protecting it. Let's go. Let's go the next one
Oh god watch this. Here's what I don't want
Here's what I don't want. I don't want you to make those incisions in your skin
um for the sake of your
soul
And I don't want you to write those tattooed letters
On your body
Do you know why?
Do you know why the kurios?
the monest divinity
Of the jewish religion. Do you know why he doesn't?
Want you to have tattoos on your body. He doesn't want you to make those incisions
Do you know why?
Because that's the activity
Of an augdued
That's an activity of a polytheistic system
That's preserving liberty
That's what they do
When you have a monest takeover you take everybody and put them into a box and whoever doesn't fit into the box gets executed
That's the way it works. That is the way that we function
Especially when we are pushing genocide
Right, right, which is in the text, right? So, okay fantastic. That's that's um, that's what we don't want
almonds
It's going to give you the tattoos, right? We don't want that go
um and
Tell your brother what throw down that rub done and reach down do it right in front of ferro
Right, what's it going to become? It's going to become the
Dragon give me the last one. What happens when all of this mystery is performed
There is born a dragon
Thank you for coming tonight. I appreciate your time. I appreciate your time
Um gnostic informant was way laid technologically. So we'll see him next time. Maybe um, but I want to tell you before we go
As you see the dragon emerge as you find the beast
Bearing up that cup and you know
What it was that was done in the mystery realize
you
Are becoming awake
This is all this is all reality and you are coming awake
Love it. Love it. I want to see I want to see that edge
We don't have much time left
And we need to cut to the chase. We need to find
That target and we need to eliminate it. This is the classical world reemerging
In a renaissance in a renaissance
Thank you
And for everybody who asked why I do it
Hail Satan
Madea with the kiss of poison she's coming to see you
Madea
