I never meant anything I said Just spittin' on everything I've been fittin'
Keepin' from eatin' away at me Never said anything I meant
I never said the letters that I should've said So it's askin' too much for you all to believe
But when I say, never meant nobody knows When I say, never was the cause for a long
Never knew what I was talkin' about anyway
Man, talk about a memory wipe. Welcome back to Lady Babylon's Satanic Initiation.
The report is in from Lucifer. We've got grand news. Apparently the whole Bronze Age drug hair thing is going like it.
It's supposed to be going. People are focusing a little bit of interest in it.
I am going to take us in deeper, then, into these Bronze Age drug-using ceremonies.
Yeah, you can like this. It's gonna be a good night.
And we're also gonna start tonight with a little bit of a little vitty for you to consider.
Just to set us up a mood, you know, to see the playing field, put all the gods out there and let's see what happens.
That's tonight.
I have been asking Derek to come. We did our survey and Derek knows that he would be welcome to come in lingerie and platinum wig for a fight night sometime.
I know that there will be a time that's coming. So I appreciate everybody responding to that. That was nice.
I want to start tonight with a clip and I want to look at this clip twice again.
Not only because that's part of the training, but it's also reinforcement for this, you know, form of hypnosis that we're doing here.
Because that's really where you have to go to get into these sources. You have to get into the mind of the people there.
You have to be in the spot so that when they start using this vocabulary and talking about their ritual, you're seeing it through their eyes.
You're seeing it through their eyes. I told you guys last time, the devil was very pleased with the report back on the Lemnian Earth.
This is fantastic. We're talking about the blood of Typhon, the blood of Typhon.
Oh God, this is the Ostromania inducing stuff.
And tonight I want to take us via known us to the ritual activity of those who use the Ostromania.
Yes, the very practice of the mystery itself, the very practice of the mystery itself.
First, I want to start with some who have practiced the mystery. Some who have practiced the mystery.
I want to look at these individuals and I've got a little, just a short vid to warm us up. Chewie hit it.
I'm very curious.
And sad. My dumb.
Thank you. Thank you.
Thank you.
Yeah, he stuck out his tongue. Yeah, isn't that something? It's quite an image. It's quite an image.
And having absorbed that piece of indecent history, look at us all sitting here in the salon.
I just wanted to open tonight. Just throw that out there and say, look at us in the salon.
We want the reality. We want to see what was actually there.
Right now, Neil, Gnostic Informants on his channel doing his thing and he's punching it out, slugging it out.
Yeah, slugging it out to establish some kind of some kind of decorum in the museum.
I give him kudos for that. I give him kudos. Let's see if we can find that place, that ritual place.
Come on, man. This is good, good, good drug ritual stuff from antiquity.
These texts are going to blow your mind. They're going to really sink their teeth into you.
We've got our tongue out. We've got our tongue out. We've got those fearsome fangs.
This is at the bottom of the pot. This is at the bottom of the brew.
When you drink, this is the image that sends you off.
This is the Medusa. This is the resurrected Lady Babylon.
I forgot to tell you guys, but Jesus has a felony interdimensional warrant out on him.
It looks like this sort of circus where we all meet in a tent.
It looks like it's there for a reason. It comes through. It bleeds through the metaphysics.
It's like quantum radiation if there is such a thing. Yeah. Wow, fantastic.
Let's go to a couple of texts. Tonight I want to start out with someone you're going to recognize.
Then I want to look at the ritual. The ship is stopped. Everybody off. Get out. Take your lunches with you.
The bus won't be coming back until this evening. By the way, congratulations to my student.
I will brag for you and I will be on a dig. She will be on a dig.
They'll be looking at some thracian stuff. It's a black sea. Oh God, congratulations.
I'm not going to say your name, but congratulations that you got there. What a great opportunity.
You'll have to be sending us back data. You'll have to let us know what's going on, man.
This is the frontier now, the archaeological frontier. We're right there at that late Bronze Age.
Throw us up some Greek here so we can look at texts together. I want to look at the single.
I want to look at the, nope, not that one. That one. There we go. Thanks, Joey. Yep, that one. There we go.
They're a little bit out of order. I apologize. Look at the name that's underlined there on the second line down.
That's Amon. We're talking about this God of Libya. We're talking about this one who's from the sand.
He's from that desert. That one is the horned prophet. The prophet with the horns.
The prophet with the horns. That's the one who Amon is. What does that mean? I'm pulling you into the riot.
We're going. Set your mind on drive and let's go into the riot.
What is he doing?
He has that thrice helix image of the ram's horn.
He is Hesperian Zeus and he prophesies or tells the words of prophecy.
Yeah. With that time breaking oracular voice. I said we're going to be talking about voice tonight.
The real topic here is voice. Subliminally, we'll be kicking this over to you.
How does one use the mystic voice? How does one use that? Why don't we just go and look at the uses of the mystic voice?
For that, I'm going to pull up my text and Chewie, if you can hit the next.
There we go. That's big enough. That's fantastic.
Look right at the top. Who are we talking about? We're talking about Typhon.
Who is Typhon? Typhon is a snakey-legged dragon. He is a snakey-legged monster.
He is the earth-born. Remember him this way.
What does he do? He bubbles up this fiery breath of the lightning.
Isn't that nice? He's got a fiery breath of lightning in him.
What does he do? He burns all of the land. The thing goes up and smoke.
The tops of the mountains crumble down in the fire.
When all of this is happening, outsteps a singer, a priest-singer who serves Lydia and Zeus.
He leaves the temple at that awesome smelling place.
Constant there with the sacrifice. You thank the sacrifice.
You thank the sacrifices.
Tone, holla, holla, holla, right? No, it's not.
It's usually an altar with, did you buy little bricks of incense for?
That's what a burnt offering is.
That verb thuo is almost always.
It's overwhelming majority of the time that I've personally seen it in tax.
It's a reference to a frankincense offering.
Little cakes, little bricks that you put on the barbecue that they got set up inside the tent.
The circus tent where we hear the voice.
And we open our eyes.
Come on to the circus tent.
Did everybody see what was going on?
We only have so much time for this investigation.
I've only got so many weeks' authority here.
What we're going to have to do is we're going to have to find out that we're going to need motive.
We're going to have to have evidence that we'll put that guy in the right place at the right time.
We've got to find out exactly what he was doing.
Why was Jesus in that park with that naked kid?
And what was he doing to that naked kid?
I want the evidence.
I want everything we've got, everything we've got.
We don't want theories and nobody's trying to sell any books here.
We're part of an investigation, right?
Part of an investigation.
And I value time, by the way.
I'm watching your comments.
I appreciate those.
I want to run that clip one more time.
And I want you to look at this clip.
And I want you to see in it the incarnated Buddha.
I want you to see it.
Live it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Yeah.
What'd he say?
Looked my tongue.
Was that it?
Can I quote the Dalai Lama?
I've got a I've got a book of quotes somewhere.
I've got to enter this in.
book of quotes somewhere I've got to enter this in something about lick my tongue
lick my tongue what is going on look at us in the position that we are in the
world just look just look at where we are is this gorgeous insanity or is it
is it gorgeous the planning behind this it's amazing okay let's get back to our
text look real quick at our text the people want you know I mean they want
it we've got to bring it to them so leaving behind his temple we left our
guy here was talking about a dragon right and just terrible just terrible
stormy creature oh he's awful and this priest steps out this priest steps out
one who's involved with the voice yeah he steps out I see data he doesn't have
any arms all right he's got nothing on him he goes to war Ken Tori Muthoy I
heard Derek Lambert this week talking about kicking against the goad or the
prick that's this word in Greek Ken Tori here no data there with Muthoy he
comes to war not with arms but with speech with his tongue that's a barb it's a
barb the devil has a barb on his tongue have you ever wondered why yeah it's
because it's what he uses for warfare the next line is Muthoy
a conti theory these dead excuse me guy who the materiality day it's not a
shaped weapon it's not a cutting sharpened weapon it's his speech that is
the the blade yeah and what does he do he binds his word his word is a sword his
voice he's a shield yeah and what does he do he binds he binds with word
Stacey Talon he says Stacey Talon yeah Stacey Talon is a curse it's a curse
it's what you call a binding curse okay now step back and say oh where are we in
the right right we're talking about dragons and dogs again we're talking
about temples and we're talking about colleges of priestesses yeah we're
talking about the Medusa again who are the Medusa they are these bronze age a
kidney there are these women who have put themselves and been put from birth
the influence of a complex regimen of serpentine toxins which I'm right now
hopefully trying to get people to figure out what's going on those things
they're under those influences and so here we are with these people why do we
come here remember we're talking about the bronze age drugs and we're talking
about what they put in their hair right and what's that hair dye and what's the
ochre red ochre what is that what are they doing with these things right well
it's Lemnian earth and it's part of right it's used in Ritu yeah the Medusa is
they get ready as they get ready they fill their hair with poison now they
carry the poison in their hair it's the carrier for the vehicle that drives
their entire cult it's just it's gorgeous it's absolutely gorgeous yeah
beautiful beautiful stuff let's bring the Greek text back was keep going into
the right and see what's going on stay the talon stay the talon that is a
binding which causes you to be restricted and labels you as the doomed
talon yeah yeah yeah
by the power of the mystic art yeah the fiery giant and this gigos here for
those of you who are curious you take it off for a second this gigos here these
giants you can find these guys all over the place so check them out giants big
deal right yeah think of it in terms of its quantum physics okay remember well
what are we working with here we're working with images we're working with
images so okay you got the snake you live bring him up again bring up that
typhoon where you go oh love that right mmm look at that oh god does she want
to just reach out and like anyway okay bring back the Greek text bring back
that Greek text see we don't have ideas and theories here we don't you know come
on man devil didn't care about ideas and theories doesn't let's look at what the
words are saying here we are back in the right taking it to those rights because
you guys like going stay the talon yeah we're gonna root you to the spot the
burning dragons overcome he's overcome by this mystic art right now he's afraid
right he's he's rooted there stay read that tall stay read that tall soft boy
Desmond he is literally it's that says he is fixed firm in his spot come back
he's fixed firm in his spot where he's standing right frozen frozen and it turns
out it turns out that he is able to be bound by the verbal command of a priest
who is exercised in the mystery okay all right so let's take a look here at some
of the language last week we said look we just discovered this week we just
discovered oh my god they're all in drugs in the Bronze Age right and what's the
hair for what's the Limnian hair that if you look it up is that Limnian earth is
called in the magic is called the blood of typhoon the blood of typhoon what are
we doing with the blood of typhoon yes should we have that is that even legal
right okay we're getting closer right I want you guys to see the cult so that
we can figure out what Jesus was doing with that naked boy okay we've got just
a few more minutes here let's go back to the text one more time I just want you
to notice that the state eats a toe that word that he uses for fixed being
fixing this individual in place that word is the str root it's got the str root
in it and the kintori that barb that barb that is the word do you know how to
make your muthos into a word into a barb do you know how to use it so it's a
barb but not just you know you're not discussing somebody out or something
you're moving time and space with it right it's a step up he's it right he's
having an effect on the giants you can't see these things right but they're there
and you can bind them you can bind them and the giant is amazed when you can
amaze a giant because everybody knows that giants are of superior intelligence
this isn't fififofum right these are the people aka the sons of God get this you
know the story the sons of God saw the daughters of men that they were fair and
they took to themselves wives of all which they chose and they had children
and they taught them the art of drugs it doesn't say that it's so easy to fool
no no it does it really says that it says that they taught them the art of
drugs among other things astrology pulling down the stars that kind of thing
they taught them all that magic yes right these are those sons of God that
can fly brah and they have children they have children and these children are
giants these children are giants the watchers know right they watch and they
wait for that moment of consciousness to come that moment of eye awakening right
eye-opening awakening resurrection they watch for it and if the whole colony is
going bad they fill the place full of full of the purifying elements isn't
that neat listen to what's happening they fill the place full of the purifying
elements we saw on Wednesday that only the pathway of the medwa the media only
her pathway gives you access to that mystery if you don't walk through her
you don't walk at all interesting interesting lady Babylon you can see
why she has to return right it's the biggest fear in Christianity the biggest
fear now I'm not going to address your apologetics isn't it disgusting being
around those guys disgusting can I just say here here to the people who make the
air fresheners you know I don't want to endorse anybody anything but you guys
are needed in the presence of those academics and non-academics who want
to fill you so full of garbage it's just I shouldn't I shouldn't it's just it's
taking advantage of you we don't need to be taking advantage of right there's
nobody here there's no way you guys would commit as much time as you're
committing you know and and need some kind of smoke you don't need that right
we need sources and I just wanted you to see from a couple of sources tonight how
that these words let me show you a couple of words here let's go to our lexicon
by the way the perseus tough side is restructuring so we don't have a I'm
taking photos of my giant 2,500 page Greek lexicon falling apart but hey here
they are show them up look give these this is a little treat here just look at
them here here here's some strict nine right right struck none look at it at the
bottom here I just want you to see see sleepy nightshade blah blah blah thorn
apple look thorn apple detura stramonium right from and they give the
reference to diascortes so struck none here and struck none is used as one of
these verbs that one of these plants excuse me the Greeks identify as being a
plant capable of intoxicating right for you to enter into a state of mania
mania right this whole drug vocabulary people don't realize this but there's
nobody ever reads these tags but there's a whole drug vocabulary let's go to
another let's go to the next one point maybe get a close-up on that yeah yeah
just look at the we're looking at money cost here right where we have the it's
not up here but we have money right the madness someone is manic money cost is
usually you know to an extreme matter extravagant you see in definition number
two there right that's nice but I want you to look for the drugs we got a look
for the drugs does anybody see any drugs here oh I do look at the bottom there
it was like two sentences from the bottom there I'm pharmacist right so you can
have this adjective represent a type of drug a style of drugs the manic drugs so
what are the manic drugs the manic drugs the drugs that puts you into a place of
mania you haven't been to church unless you've been under the influence of these
drugs okay that is what is going on and look at that they have money well that's
okay next next yeah look at this look at this yeah yeah nice good for sleeping
and they say that's nice and I see my convenience sleeping places just keep
going down going down going down until we get to the very bottom look at Roman
numeral number two as a verb right here we've got to stupefy with narcotics
okay so this isn't just to give narcotics this is to stupefy and notice the
root is Epsilon Upsilon new Epsilon Upsilon new where have you guys seen
this before does this look like the Ewiah root oh maybe maybe huh so there's a
connection look there's a connection to marriage there's a connection to sex why
why is there a connection because in the right bring me up in the right in the
right we're dealing with sex and drugs we are dealing with sex and drugs you
cannot perform the mystery without the sex and the drugs you can't do it the
music the music makes everything work that's what they said yeah they said the
music was more important than the than even the drugs which I thought I've
always found that fascinating must be something within you know you get taken
up in it and off you go right next thing you know your dad on the floor and
they're like oh revive him right and we've got the stuff in our hair these
hallucinogens that are what these are not pleasant hallucinogens this is not you
see people today with the mushroomry the mushroomry and how nice it is because it
helps to heal you from your traumatic yeah experiences at least that's what
they're trying to research right see if it does this is a different angle this is
the turn you crazy turn you crazy on for a few hours turn you crazy on for a few
hours and when we're all done you can sleep it off and fantastic you tell the
priests on the way out what you see right right where you been let's get it
down yep we said what right what are the messages what are the oracles isn't that
fantastic let's go to we've got another dictionary I know I'm going over but we've
got on there look at this here I just wanted you to see this word for a lot
I wanted you to see this word for a lot known us in that passage that we just
looked at known us says the priest who sings that prayer right that prayer is
a song that you are singing to the divinity yeah it's a song that the
audience is the divinity the power the diamond the demon the succubus the
incubus depending on whether you're in or out yeah those songs are the
activations of that power so
known us tells us there is an inherent power in this thing this is our device
it's a noetic it's a it's a brain voice a brain voice bring up that last yeah
la house only the concept of voice is is embodied in lot in lots remember we're
necromancers how do we bring the logos we bring the logos via the lot yeah if you
were paying attention you would have seen the stars yourself and you would
have been able to go to where he was and give him what he needed yes you find
those you find those children right you find those children within the right the
mystery I've got news okay no this is gonna upset people by the way I'm still
reading all as many comments as I possibly can yeah and yeah there's a lot of
stuff good stuff in there but we have to go to a place it's not it's kind of
sensitive and kind of you know when the Dalai Lama was kissing that was kissing
that boy I was thinking to myself look okay this is the closest you're gonna
get to Jesus with the naked kid this is the closest you're gonna get this is
kind of a Jesus I mean come on right is there so much difference right you know
and nobody should be offended by that right nobody should be offended I hope
the Christians are offended to compare Jesus to Buddha I hope that's not bad okay
we could throw we could throw I think quite quite throw Moses and all the
Moses was cranking with the with the Venoms and this is the new area by the
way people right this is the new area watch what those Venoms do bring back
those serpents around the pole and watch what happens right watch what happens
to the medicine yeah oh this is gorgeous I love it I love this very much so it's
how is he doing that it's with that it's with that lot that he is able to cast and
catch in time just boom in order to pull down that power from the star right he
uses the lot that's how they always know the future and you thank you so
oh wait a minute there is that funny connection right between you know
divination and casting the lots yes there is and it's a principle of
randomization that's nice all that stuff is nice well what's important for us is
that in the text we not only see a very unique creation of lightning but but we
see it in a way that shines light on the apocalypse so that soon we'll be able
to chart the stars and say we are here welcome to the apocalypse thanks for
coming tonight
