I let that liquor drown my days Now I'm taking my last ride
I paid the highest price you can pay And I'm on my way to Potter's Field
Potter's Grave is where I'll be To rest until the end of time
For all eternity
Welcome back to Lady Babylon.
This is Wednesday Night Bible Studies,
and you are at the final episode of the fifth season.
Tonight I want to bring to you something special to mark the occasion.
I want you to have the prophecy.
I'm going to bring you something from the depths,
bring you something from antiquities spoken by the mouth of the Sybil herself.
Tonight we're going to look into the face of the echidna on Lady Babylon.
In order to begin
with the foundation and root of everything pagan,
that which those who worship the gods worship.
I want to bring you decay tonight.
I want to bring you justice.
And I want to say she is the last.
She is the last of the divinities to abandon mortal society.
If you drive her out, you do so to your own peril.
Now, this is a very, very pagan thing that angered the pagans,
because the Christians and the Jews did not respect the gods.
They were not devotees of decay.
If you are unwilling to offer yourself to justice,
you do not belong as a part of civilized society, say the Romans.
You must honor justice.
Perfect for our circumstances, the time.
Shall we play a little video?
Something that brings the future and the past together into one coherent message.
Chewie, hit it.
It's really about realizing that walking in humility,
surrendering everything to my Heavenly Father,
who ultimately is the one who directs what I do, hopefully each and every day.
And then lastly, I think the big part of that is realizing that the credit for any victories are not mine.
They belong to the God that I serve.
They belong to the God that I serve.
They belong to the God that I serve.
They belong to the God that I serve.
They belong to the God that I serve.
They belong to the God that I serve.
They belong to the God that I serve.
They belong to God that I serve.
They belong to the God that I serve.
burgh
u
Every word out of your mouth is counted for.
for every word. Let us see nemesis brought to the fore of our discussion tonight. Let
us see nemesis. Why it is that she is so important when you strip back all the gods, when you
strip back all the hopes and joys and all the trappings of civilization, when you strip
all that away. You are still left with a foundation and that foundation is nemesis.
We honor nemesis in that, there is a little bit of Greek in that video, untranslated.
Yes, and that little bit of Greek said that the one who bends the knee to nemesis, the one who
acknowledges nemesis is the wise one. What is nemesis doing and why is she so important? I want
to bring you this oracle and as we're doing so, we're doing so against the background of nemesis.
Nemesis was worshiped as one of those foundational deities, one of those forces that you cannot
come through this life without having encountered whether you want to declare yourself a monotheist
and say there are no gods, there is no justice, there is no retribution, there is only Allah,
there is only Jehovah, Yahoo and a son who was arrested in a public park with a naked kid.
Those of us who look back to the pagan origins of civilization as you and I sitting here today
in the 21st century know it. We must reconsider for one moment nemesis for without her, we have no
justice and when justice leaves, that's it, that's it, we're all done. Let's go to the, before we
bring up the clip, Chewie, let's go up to the first source, I want people to have this fresh.
I did it again, I did it again, can we go to the comments, pardon me, I worked it up there and I
got you all going, now look, you gotta take a break, look at some comments, I want to get two
comments, these are important, I want people to see these, what kind of comments are people giving,
here blow that up Chewie, I'll read it to you, yep exactly, good, thank you Matt, hey Dr. Arman,
could you give me a hand here, I'm trying to find where the meaning of Ewa means shout of Bacchus,
I'll show you Matt, I brought that along with me tonight coincidentally and I've got it here to
show you, I love this, these are, love this, give me another comment, give me another comment, this
is from, oh yeah Louis, this is from Louis, amazing content as usual, do theology researchers or
people in educated Christian community ever engage with your content in a substantive way, substantive
yeah, I can never get them to actually examine and discuss the relevant source material,
but concepts with any intellectual honesty, well Louis, you're not going to,
intellectual honesty, can you believe the gumption of Louis, my god,
intellectual honesty, Louis, I sent a letter, I sent a letter of 36, 40 something,
professors of Bible, professors of theology, professors at seminaries, universities,
all sorts of departments, I sent them a letter to ask about the boy, I introduced myself,
I talked about the Greek, my background, as a classicist, none of them, Louis, I got one response
back, it was from a female professor, female professor, otherwise, and she said sounds interesting,
that's it, otherwise no, you're not going to get people to engage with this material,
you can throw this material in front of them, look, look at the drug users, look,
everybody likes watching drug users who are having sex and orgies, come on, right, this is
time for a show, yeah, but you know, these peep shows, nobody wants to see the peep shows for
antiquity, I got good peep shows for you, I got, I got peep shows with drug users that are using
drugs that flip you out, we're about to look at, we're about to look at the queen of these,
what I'm going to bring you today is a woman, I'm going to bring you today a woman who has been
described as the virgin viper, oh, what, yes, yes, she is heavily, heavily, heavily onto the
influence of drugs, she's dancer, uh-huh, and she has this poison that comes out of her mouth,
she has this poison that comes out of her mouth, and this poison will so rock your world, you will
go nuts, turn into a sader, start screaming like you're on fire, oh my god, really, yes, really,
really, mmm, Scythian, does it surprise you that she's a Scythian, it shouldn't, it shouldn't,
oh, bless those Scythian women, fantastic, if it weren't for them,
this grace wouldn't have half their history, it's amazing, it's amazing, okay, let's get to the next,
let's get to that text, should we cover it all, boom, boom, yeah, hit that one, hit that first one,
there we go, um, blow me up, bring up the scanner, yep, got it, excellent, oh my, the case, Melpo,
Pandirgeos, I sing of the face of justice, shining in glory, and she sits upon the throne
of God, Juanax, it's Mycenaean, keep it, it's Mycenaean, my old, old Juanax, Lord, except not
Lord King, she's the one who sits there, wait a minute, what, they keep reading, uranothan, from
uranos, from out of uranos, she looks at the life of all mortals, she watches, next text,
who is this, oh my, the case, who is this face of justice, she is the splendid, shining one,
she is the coming dawn, let's look at the next, let's bring us to the next one, here we go,
look, just look at the Greek here, I'm just, look, I'm throwing sources at you, right,
where are your sources, they're here, dummy, somebody, that's for you, for the person who wrote
and said, I love, I just watched to hear you laugh, I love that, I love that, I just laughed to
imagine you watching, yes, I do, I do, I love it, here we go, look at this,
Udinagar, enthusiasm, there is no enthusiasm, there is no religious awe without the erotic
inspiration, this is a principle, you cannot enter the cave without, if you want into this cave of
initiation, you have to have a tattooed on your skin so you'll remember it, it's a Scythian thing,
lovely, don't tell me the Scythians didn't have any written, never mind, if we have the, if we have the
tattoo that gives us the power, what kind of draw are we having now, bring up the source again,
bring up the source, this ecstasy, this, do you see at the bottom, enthusiasm, this enthusiasm
cannot come about without erotic inspiration, when you are in a mystery cult, you are in a sex cult,
let me repeat that, by the power of the holy mysteries of Christ, when you are in a mystery,
you're in a sex cult, that's why Jesus is arrested in a public park at 4 a.m. with a naked kid,
okay, you can see why theologians would never be able to engage with this material, do you think
they've read these, these are orphic fragments I've given, I've been giving you, assembled by Otto
Kern, really you think they're gonna have access to this, no, those jumble heads, oh my god I've
been in the best seminaries in this country and I can tell you for a fact, the current state of
scholarship in Greek leaves much to be desired, oh get it out, get it out for the end of the season,
come here, come here, come here, yeah you like it, you like it, say Harvard, say Harvard, say Harvard
or I'm putting that back in, say Harvard, okay, love it, fantastic, let's keep going, next source,
next source, I'll try not to, Chewie's saying don't yell brother, okay open that up, open that up so
the old man can see it, this is fantastic, check this out people, I'm about to give you an oracle,
look at it in the mirror, I'm, look at it about halfway down, this is the oracle of the Sibyl,
when Bacchus Ewasas, when Bacchus cries Ewa, he is stung by the madness and at that time
blood, fire and ash are mingled, get it off there, prophecy
from Thrace, this is our, we'll just call it Ukrainian prophecy, yeah, blood, fire, ash, mingled,
fantastic, now for those of you who care, that was lifted directly from the
Thracian inscription, gorgeousness and gorgeosity all wrapped up together, all wrapped up together,
would you be surprised to find out the oracles knew everything, oh my goodness, that sounds
lunatic, let's go to the next source, by the way there was a fantastic find, take it down,
second Chewie, there was a fantastic find this week or the week before, had to do with the
manuscripts and writing and a star map, some kind of celestial star map that was written by a dude
who knew trigonometry, yeah, fantastic, long time ago, Greeks, turns out Indo-European,
nope, Pulaskean, turns out the Greek is dominant, fantastic, through the Pulaskean,
let's go back to the text, here we are, blow me up, check this out people, it's all coming together,
this is the finale, so I'm bringing everything together, just here we go,
ergite in catharon, the pure things come from the pure, the kingdom from humans,
oh brilliant, famous, jubilius, glorious child of Zeus, I among mortals possess
the celebrated gift of memory, now with that on your brain, with that on your brain,
let's go quickly to the next text and introduce you, this is going to introduce you to the vision
of that power that we're all trying to get into the cave to partake in, to participate in,
to view, to behold, to absorb, that's what we're doing, that's the power, before we do so I want
you to see, I want to purify you, this kingdom from men, I want to purify you, so that you may
enter into it, let us consider nemesis, I'm surprised Chewie, look at that,
doubt as a pagan and reach out and feel, feel the temperature of nemesis, I want you to consider
who nemesis is, hit us with the next text Chewie, I want you to see, this is just an english translation
of a bit of knownness, but I wanted you to see a quick picture of her, she who has the
viperous feet, who is spitting poison afar, yeah okay, okay, round her neck, flowered 50 various
heads of wild beasts, some roared with lion's heads like the grim face of the riddling sphinx,
others were spluttering, you like that word, I didn't even know that was a word, spluttering,
I'll show you the word that isn't great, but okay, spluttering, sure, I think I get it from the mouth,
yeah, spluttering, there we go, spluttering foam from the tusks of wild boars, foam, I want you
to think about that foam, remember we're looking at her, we're looking at scootha, we're looking at
echidna and she has the foam on her mouth, like the other members of her temple household,
Cerberus is one of them, Cerberus is one, do you feel where we are, you know when you get to a place
that's foreign and the person that's there is a three-headed dog with poison froth on his mouth,
you know where you are, you know where you've come to, that's fantastic, let's keep going,
double shapes and I'm going to show you this in Greek, double shapes, she appeared a woman in
the middle of her body with clusters of poison spitting serpents for hair, for hair, look, keep
going down, the claws of her wide scattered hands were curved like crooked talons sickle from her
neck over her terrible shoulders with tall with tail raised high above her throat a scorpion with
an icy sting sharp wedded crawled and coiled upon itself, yes okay so you can see right away
this is a bad bad person, I mean and when I say bad I mean whoo right nice tats nice tats and drugs
nice I have to admit this style wise this is going way beyond and I understand why people are
scared you know what I mean it's not like you meet her in a club, yeah not even some kind of metal
club right because she has the poison dripping out of her mouth, yes can you imagine the wonderful
state she is in that wonderful ecstasy because what is our principle that we just taught
our principle now tattooed on our skin is that the erotic is the center of the ecstasy
yes the erotic is the center of the ecstasy a person who does sleep study sent me sleep
sent me an fmri study two studies by the NIH NIH grants and these studies were done on the
orgasm people what does your brain look like it turns out that while you are while the human
entity is undergoing orgasm as a sexual act that brain becomes more wired than it ever is
more centers of the brain light up they're just studying it now they're just starting
they're just starting why did it take us so long how many hundreds of thousands years did it take
human beings to come to the point that they would study their own orgasm
they seem to know a lot about it in antiquity they seem to know that you could take your brain
to places under the influence of drugs sexual stimulation yeah yeah welcome to the mystery
there is no filling of the spirit without eros without erotic desire yes you ask me why was
jesus arrested in a public park with a naked boy please next uh let's go to the next source
this is gorgeous i want to just give you a couple of things i'm trying to keep it within decent
time limits tonight check this out you guys are going to love this look at that um with respect
you know um a thousand thousands just big number doesn't necessarily mean a thousand
an incredible number right of crawling vipers came from her feet
spitting out this
eon eos everybody here knows what the eos is uh huh spitting out this eos
that creates that shadow shadow casting eos that's what they're doing next text next text
jury let's go we're going to go quick through these we've got evade tonight the imperial
who haha here we go a la yeah um but what comes from her mouth what comes from her mouth
that foam um some authors call that foam akinite so i want you to imagine a priestess
a feared priestess who's a sythian and remember those people the women
have a rule that they don't get to pick their husband breeder until they kill three men in combat
so this priestess from these people
is the one who's described as having these echidnaic properties these viperine properties
she's called the lamprey from the mouth does everybody know what the lamprey
chewy radar us some lamprey thank you very much oh my goodness look at some of these pictures
as we're looking at these that's blood you know that thing is sucking you know um that serpent
is sucking life out of somebody look at all those teeth bro look at all those little uh
grinds in the skin there pulls out that living living luscious blood look at this mouth this is
what they called her they said this was her mouth this was her mouth and remember it's flowing
with a purple dark um dark gray purple or dark gray ooze ooze and well what do you and i walk
around doing we walk around being living in fear of her dogs we walk around in fear of her dogs
yeah yeah they've got the purple stuff on her mouth and it's foamy right and you got to be
careful of these people are are nuts you will die in these people's company right they have this goddess
right nemesis they have this goddess this fury they have the oma decay do you have the oma decay
every society i'm going to tell you a secret a secret of the cosmos
every society has the capacity to hold the oma decay the look the eye of justice
every society has this capacity where there are more than two human beings gathered together
in society there is a place for the oma decay oma decay she will hold you responsible for every
stupid thing you have ever said in an instant when you see her you come to the oracle she knows
who you are what how does she i don't know people talk she knows who you are and she knows what
you're going to do just like she knows what you did do this is a person yes this is not a
mythological creature this is a woman how exciting with all of those brain centers
everything that is beautiful in nature brought to fruition do you wonder now
why christianity that developed after the first century had to sanitize itself
do you wonder why they had to say take out the botanical plants from the communion drink
stop using those right what about the orgies what about the orgies if you're a christian
like 120 130 you're like oh can we still do the orgy thing i mean it's kind of the whole purpose
right i mean isn't that why they all get together it's a fundamental shift in christianity
not to be involved and for the orthodox and for the experts for the fundamentalist
yeah guess what all your religions are based upon this very mystery action yes your cult
whether it's moses or jesus or mohammed all of them all of the things that come from the book
all of the zealots all the monks all the priests all the sobs that took witches and burned them alive
they all come from a mystery that is satanic and involves sex drugs death resurrection and rebirth
let's go to the next one let's go to the next one listen theologians out there
listen engage the text it's your only hope it's your only hope
yes and with respect to the flesh around her private parts the nymph right she appears to be
dual natured now your translator before we don't have to go backwards your translator before
said she had the parts of a woman that's not what this says this says she has both
so i want you to reckon just for a minute this is the surprise at the end of the season
you're looking at her she's naked oh you know it's really you know it's really neat about this goddess
and i'm telling you the way she's presented in antiquity
she has scales but they're called false scales tattooed scales from her breasts down covering
her genitalia oh wow i am not messing with this person i am not right i mean i kind of want to
have coffee with her sometime you know but i know if i do i'm going to be ready not to
you know you know not don't do anything stupid right it's that drizzle coming from her mouth
yeah constant constant do you know what they say she has in her mouth this um
um this echidna she has what is attributed to be discovered by the daughters of helios
and cersei specifically and that is that akinite that akinite
yeah let's go look at what she's got in her on her person let's go look next source bring it up
yep oh here it was double shaped a woman in the middle in her body see how he translated
incorrectly it literally says of both um natures having both natures hermaphrodite
love it go down to the next one look at avid bringing avid here avid sit down for a second
just tell us something avid yeah tisifini brought with her poisons too of magic power to invoke madness
stop right there take it down uh uh what did they just say you classicist out there
they said she's using drugs to induce madness
10 years ago you didn't want to say this was recreational drugs
yeah dang let's go we're making advancements let's go same text same text i'm sorry to you
i get a little bit self-righteous um look at this lip froth of cerberus the echidna's venom
wild deliriums this is what it brings on people are you ready to party wild delirium blindness
to the brain i want some blindness of the brain and crime oh and tears oh and madden lust for murder
all ground up mixed with fresh blood
i'll say that one again for those of you who are looking for the clues mixed with fresh blood
boiled in a pan of bronze and stirred with a green hemlock stick my god you couldn't make a better
potion to blow your senses to blow your mind you know this this stuff blows your mind blows
why would you want to blow your mind why would you want to have the orgasmos
you silly silly people getting your mind blown was the whole purpose
do you think the resources that go in to building a simulation like this do you think those could
not be better used than entertainment no the purpose is to blow your mind into existence
to blow your mind into existence oh god echidna take me there take me there let's see it next one
oh watch this watch this um uh uh uh and some i want to offer okay i want to offer tonight
you'll notice at the bottom this is the new satanic version so um i'm i've been asked by a number of
people to do some translations and i'm seriously considering the nsv or the new satanic version
of the greek new and old testament yes the septuagint you know at the interesting parts
but what i'm thinking what i'm thinking about i i want to offer it to you tonight and if you
would please since you're here with me in the workshop and you've done you've been nice enough
to give your time and say i'm going to be here and support this lunatic um here's time i want you
to support i don't want your money because your money is filthy it's been places i don't want your
money but what i do want is your digestion of and understanding critique of critique of something
this is the new satanic translation please let's bring it up and i'll just read it to you the greek
is right above and some unknown naked kid with his penis tentacles wrapped in a medicated bandage
was assigned to serve jesus the authorities arrested the juvenile suspect but he fled custody
and in the process left his bandage behind new satanic version of mark 14
51 52 right nice nice um let me know what do people think now what i did with that people
and i would love if a theologian would step in i'd love if i could get some head of some greek
department at some seminary to step in i'd love it i'd love it look at the translation there you
cannot get a more elegantly modern literal translation of the bible i'm offering you tonight
this passage i'm gonna read again please uh chewie check the comments after i read this i want to
know what people's input is ready give me a rating people thumbs up thumbs down you know give me one
word wordy not enough words give it to me suck it to me punch me right stick it in my ear something
like that i don't care and some unknown naked kid with his penis and tentacles wrapped in a medicated
bandage was assigned to serve jesus the authorities arrested the juvenile suspect but he fled custody
and in the process left his bandage behind those of you who are looking at the participles look
how elegantly i did that last sentence with the with the participle there right circumstantial
participle oh god i love this kind of stuff i love that okay what are what are they saying
should we point me out to a good or a bad or or ugly anyone anyone put a picture up there's people
see the top of my head go for it yeah that's okay here give me that let me sit down
fantastic thanks for putting on um whoa uh yeah i can't read that one i don't think i read
watch the language children yes yes um king james no give me the okay give me the nsb love it love
it okay almond should write all that translated satanic version yes yes maybe i should maybe i
should it would be empty two horns up two horns up hey who said that one two horns and who is it
the one true tim did we finally find the one true tim i've been waiting for this day um yeah what was
that one almond should amazing when compared to the kjv juvenile suspect is a bit wordy otherwise
great juvenile suspect you know i thought that was because the group that came to arrest him
official environment whatnot yeah i thought that was i thought that was good look at drawing down
the moon says amazing oh you're bringing these all up where have you been bringing those all up
the whole time that's fantastic okay what do you think give it a number one to ten show me on
your big pause chewie okay okay chewie's indicating this is good all right um what i really wanted
you to see tonight was nemesis so i'm gonna play that first clip one more time and i want you to
realize who she is who nemesis is when everything else fails
retribution comes it's really about realizing that uh walking in humility uh surrendering
everything to my heavenly father who ultimately is the one who uh directs what i do hopefully each
and every day uh and and then lastly i think the the big part of that is is realizing that the
credit for any victories are not mine uh they belong to uh uh to the guy that i serve
uh
to avert something that you have said that goes beyond something that shows
your lack of respect for nemesis. I, a politician, am led by God. And what I do
is what God does. And I walk this road in humility. Do you hear nemesis? Do you
hear her get up from her perch? She hears that. Excuse me? Excuse me. This fools
life has become an eternal example of nemesis. Now, it's up to us. It's up to
us to see or not to see the coming DK, the Oma DK, the vision, eye of justice. Now
it's up to us to see where we are. And the watchers are watching. The watchers
are watching. This is a big one. Yeah, let's see what they do. Let's see what
they do with the Oma DK. It's a wonderful testing process. You know life's a
prison, right? I should have made that explicit from day one. Thank you for
coming this entire season. I appreciate it. I appreciate your comments and your
feedback and your email. I do. I'm hoping that the image of that underlying
nature, the image of that mystery has finally come through. I'm hoping you've
seen its dual natured capacity. I'm hoping you will contemplate the place in
history, not just us sitting around here coming up with esoteric teachings, me
translating things to you that haven't been translated in a thousand years. Not
that kind of thing. This is not for our entertainment, but for our application. We
have started to see a world open up and behind that world tonight. We saw the
power. The echidna is the living mystery. Jesus Christ was arrested in a public
park at 4 a.m. Scream and I am not a child trafficker because he was operating
the mystery. Thank you for coming. Have a great week. We'll see you not this
Friday, but next Hail Satan.
I am, can't bring no flowers to me on Sunday. It's gonna break her heart, not knowing.
