I let that liquor drown my days Now I'm taking my last ride
I paid the highest price you can pay And I'm on my way to Potter's Field
Potter's Grave is where I'll be To rest until the end of time
For all eternity
Welcome back to Lady Babylon, Wednesday Night Bible Study.
So fantastic to have you here tonight.
Tonight we're going to just take a tiny, tiny whack at that fracture in space-time.
We're just going to open it up a little bit.
All a part of our campaign to storm the gates and take back the tax.
That's right, we're taking it back. They belong to us now.
Tonight we're going to raise up a number, a number of profits.
And I know when profits come around and you get baptisms, we're going to start getting dirty.
So there's a little bit of dirty material tonight, fair warning.
We are going to go to that place where we can get the wine of Sodom.
Tonight on Lady Babylon.
Some of you have come here thinking that Christ is the Messiah.
It is not. The terms are not equivalent.
One is a late term, and one is a term that was used for a millennia within mystery religions.
One is a term that was invented to mask for another term.
One is an original. Tonight we're going to sort all that out.
Because remember, when it comes to the Christ, the Christ is not the Messiah.
The Christ is not the Messiah.
The Christ is the Christos.
And tonight you get to see what the Christos is.
I'm going to give you this video. We're going to start out and I'm going to give you this to you twice.
Once in the beginning, once in the end.
Specifically because the images are meant to penetrate.
You are meant to be finding what is behind them. Chewie, hit it.
The Christos is the Messiah.
The Christos is the Messiah.
The Christos is the Messiah.
The Christos is the Messiah.
The Christos is the Messiah.
The Christos is the Messiah.
The Christos is the Messiah.
The Christos is the Messiah.
The Christos is the Messiah.
The Christos is the Messiah.
The Christos is the Messiah.
The Christos is the Messiah.
The Christos is the Messiah.
The Christos is the Messiah.
The Christos is the Messiah.
The Christos is the Messiah.
The Christos is the Messiah.
The Christos is the Messiah.
The Christos is the Messiah.
And having been programmed, we can now proceed.
I advise everybody to put their seats in the upright position and to buckle into your thrones.
May the star guide you.
Yeah, let's go. Let's do it. Bring up that first. You know what I'm gonna do before we bring up the text
I'm gonna call them out. I want to introduce you guys to somebody you've never met you could not have met
You you could not have met this person you could not have heard of this person this person did not exist. Thanks to a
Cover-up a historical medieval cover-up
Fantastic a linguistic crime scene
From the 10th century
Fantastic, let's bring up our first text for tonight, please. This is everybody welcome
Everybody welcome if you don't mind for me, right?
Mmm, good blow that up to you
Who is this this is I'm back home
Wait, what? Yeah, this is I'm back home
Who is that? Oh, he's somebody that you'll meet if you ever take a walk through the papyri
Gregor Magikai. Yeah, he's a prophet
He's a prophet. What does he sing? Look at this first line proscia. Okay, I'm back home
to
Prophets to met the oil days
Kuriye, what is he doing? He is a prophet with his oil days with his oil days bring me up this
Definition of the oil days there. There we go, right? Oh, yeah. What is that oil day? It's from our oil day
It's from our oil day in Greek and if you just look just bruise up and down it look
Look, what you sing songs and you sing look about five or six lines down starts out with it
Starts out with it. Look at that word the first Greek word. We see in there. Yeah, cause
Yeah, cause
Iacos
What are songs as this tells you because the
People who worked on the Oxford and knew the Alice of Alice in Wonderland
They understood
That the Iacos is the song is the song. These are
prophets
Faites every word I have given you is a native Greek word
ombacoum
ombacoum
ombacoum
Now
ombacoum
Had his we'll get to that
Thank you. I'm Bacoum had his identity
Stolen
Fortunately his words weren't
We have them as evidence at this terrible linguistic crime scene
What is that Iacos
What is that Iacos pull that up Alice? What are you gonna tell me about Iacos?
Look, it's the mystic name of Dionysus. Remember ladies and gents Dionysus is found is early
as the linear be
Fantastic fantastic
Whoo, and look look at number just everybody take it take a little look at number two under a
It's a song in honor. Oh must the cost Iacos
Yes, that's that song and honor of
Dionysus
So somebody was asking somebody else about what are the shouts? I saw it on a
Saw it on an interview. I don't remember what show it was
YouTube
Right, and I saw it and they didn't know what the shouts were my
Goodness, if you don't know look people come on. I know you guys are all listening to these people
Right, it's not you. It's me too. We're all listening to these people
Can't take some of them serious because they're full of lies
Full of lies whenever they get unprofessional and they start throwing around their Harvard credentials
You got to know you're about to get stuff full of lies
this
Episodes brought to you by the folks
Who dislike Harvard and Yale for the fact that they have so let us down?
Yeah, you guys didn't read Arteas. Did you who's a cap Edocean dude? You should have read him
Fantastic, let's go back to the yajos. See what we've got there
Go down to oh here. This is the good part. I get to give Moses here, right?
This is the third century and it's the first time that we've heard of the guy, but okay, here we go
Moses
Moses I hear that you're a snake-loving guy. I hear you snake-loving guy Moses
Come forward
Oh
Bring him up. Oh, that makes me fills me with chills to do that bring it up
a guard on
Pellu so don't want
Hey, I'm bellows out on hi
Hey
Matis out on a
Gomorrah's
This is let me just read this to you guys. I'm just gonna stop turn on my translator
Right, right your our our
Ampelos our vine our grapevine is from the vine of Sodom
Yeah, our
Cultivated vine is grown
From by the Gomorrah's I was a little bit fancy there. I tried to give a the grape cluster
Right the grape cluster is a bunch of grapes filled with holey
Holey oh, it's biting. Look at verse three thirty-three
Thumostracon ton ho in us
What what is what is their wine? What is their wine? Their wine is the
Thumostracon ton
Bring it back up. It's the Thumostracon ton
The Thumos is that inner desire
Thumos is that breast that heart if you will and
that drive and
our drive
Our drive is the drive of the dragon
Our wine
Brings us the drive of the dragon
Look at look at the next line the same that same bring me that same text back
Chewy fantastic bring that one up good. And what is the next part of the verse say?
Caithumos a spirit and the drive
Aspeedon
the drive of the asps and then we get one little word dropped right there at the end Moses and you gave it to us so
kindly on
Iatos
It's from the alpha privative I plus yahoo to heal or yah, oh my to heal
To bring health to apply drugs to bring health. This is the drive that is the
Unhealable or untreatable poison of the asps
Yeah, what is take it down what is Moses get his words off there. What is Moses?
Telling us
What is Moses telling us? We're in a world. We're in a very strange world of snake venoms
You mean that?
You mean that substance that he's talking about is the in the wine and the wines or these wines of Sodom
Yes, yes
Uh-huh, you have missed a whole universe that was there that was there. I'm gonna take you even through the docks
Let's keep going Moses. Thank you, Moses. Have a seat. Don't
Grab that
Staff I'm not afraid. I'm not afraid of your staff
Fantastic, where do you think you got that stuff anyway?
Well, they say he was the student of Museus or Orpheus or they all they were all students of Medea
Now there is a world there is a paradise where she is Queen
Yeah, I can envision it bring us back number next next source bring it up. We're we're taking these old testament sources today
We're taking them. They belong to us, right? Oh, okay. Yeah, I want the next Greek bring me the next Greek source. We'll come back to those
Yeah, but yeah, okay, this is good enough
And they gave they put into the Brahma
Mu they put into my food who like
Right that whole like excuse me that whole a coley. Cole. Oh
gothic
Right, what is it? Colea gog?
According to physicians. It's that stuff that bring purges. You're holy
Right. Whoa. What are they doing here? They put it into his food and they did why they a potees on they watered
They liquefied they gave me liquid, right?
They gave me the liquid for my thirst. It was oxos
It was oxos. They gave you the oxos. What is this from?
Do we just dig somebody up? This is from the Psalms. This is from the Psalms from your Bible
Right, and it's using the cult terminology, which of course it should be because these are songs
These are songs and songs are magic
Now you're gonna not understand that you're not gonna understand
That the world is not made up of entertainers who sell their work and have it produced on a stage
Oh, isn't that intelligent? That's not the world. The stage is a religious place of purification
We don't have your stupid entertainments
That's what we're doing here. All right, you have to give the anthropology its day
Yeah, you have to give the anthropology its day with these texts. I'm telling you guys
I've worked with a lot of Greek and Roman texts work with a lot of them. There is always a context a
Very human context those words are not coming from fairyland
Good, I'm sorry. I'm a little bit angry
Too much bad cop tonight too much bad cop bring us in here
Let's go through some of these words that we skipped over here. Chewie. Yeah, hit that one
Look at that. Can you bring that down from them and blow it up?
Fantastic talks of course, right? We we've looked at this for once guys, but I want you to remind you
This has to do with the bow
Has to do with the bow and the equipment right can be the one skilled ride
Rise you can talks about the talk sort that toy those guys who were skilled in the bow and by guys
I mean male and female
Right. Mmm. Collectively
the bowman
Right talk so tie talk so tie the bowman of the Scythians were bow women
Isn't that nice love it keep keep keep that up. I need to I need to see that some more look at number two though
Toxic on farm icon now. We're swimming in our area where we're comfortable, right a poison for smearing arrows with
Equaling the Latin when a no
Humane Venus and drugs are connected. Yes. Now you're starting to get it now
You're starting to get it right hit me with another one. There's toxic. Look at this talk. Sorry. It's
Saris furnished with the bow number two this one also equals toxicos. It also equals the same thing
But look at the end of the line
toxicos salmos
toxicos salmos
wait the twang of the bow string
Psalms and songs and bow strings are all connected
They're all connected in antiquity. You're dealing with the very
Same entity you're dealing with the Titans. You say what?
The language it makes sense the translation. She doesn't
The Titans those who stretch
Heraclitus understood that the universe was held in the tension
Isn't that amazing that guy was smoking the universe is held in
tension
It is that tension that brings you the seed
That tension that brings you the seed start thinking like an ancient Greek start thinking like an ancient Greek no
Yeah, think like a pre-socratic
Yo
Fantastic, it is that tension that's stretching that brings the seed or the semen
It's that tension
Okay, okay, I'm beginning to see Titans
Titans are those strainers
They are those powers
That maintain that tension
Wow, okay starting to
Starting to see some things here starting to see them some things. Okay, the songs
You don't get songs without tension
Wait, what you can't produce a note
Without some form of that plucky tension like a bow
You hear the bow
Right, let's make some harps
And
Pluck let's make some harps and pluck
Yeah, okay, so you can see where the mind is you're now
That caused you to have that satiriasis and for those of you didn't sit on the satyrs meeting
You won't get the right picture, but for those of you who are standing there satyrs with your priapus
You have that tension because of that pharmacon because of that toxic on
pharmacon
That bow poison gives you the tension
brings the music
I see
Okay, if nothing else these people are totally totally stoned
Right, okay, fine. I get it bring us bring us into the text. You're saying I want to know where I'm going
Right, let me show you where we're going. This is lovely. I thank you for your time tonight. Bring up that next text
Yeah
Yeah, oh, let's go to Job. Let's go to Job then right so we've got our we have our
jugs of
the wine of Sodom
We have our jugs and we're about to see what happens when you get these jugs
Jugs of wine, right? We kind of know because we saw the daughters. We saw the daughters there here. Here the here the girls
Right, let them do their thing
spare the gents
Yeah, fantastic. You know where we are. You know where we are good bring up that verse again
Yeah, yeah, what?
Okay, ready. We're not with the people you think we're with these
Ancient practitioners this these profit this profit
Fates
Yeah, here we go. Hey on a bay is run on out to the door
if a
Person's gifts
Ascend to the
Uranus
Yeah, and is focia the things that he burns in offering
Right if they're taken up
All right within the clouds
Within the clouds
Do you know what the clouds are?
The clouds are in reference to a cult ceremony. If I was given a paper, I'd be saying in re2
The clouds are referring to the fumigations
the fumigations
The fumigations fantastic. These are prayers
Don't you remember it when Abba kum just came into the room the one you guys will probably hear called
Habakkuk or Habakkuk if you're an evangelical evangelical
You ever been preached to about Habakkuk
Abakkuk
Can tell you
That the first thing offered is that prayer is that prayer
That prayer is that incense
in the nostrils of
Zeus
Yeah, those prayers go up. They're oftentimes pictured as
Um, beautiful young diamond eyes. Yeah, beautiful young demons
Beautiful young demons. Good name for a rock group. I think anyway
Let's get back to it bring me up some more great. Let's give them some more great because we got a picture going
Yeah, and you won't be a
Listen, you're not gonna be able to get any help
Right because there's this holy a speedos in your gut
When you're in the thick of it in the right and you're right there in the depth of it as the profetice as the prophet
You're not gonna be able to just step out of it you've got the poison on board
That's why you need the theriac
If you don't have the theriac
You're gonna end up screaming about being thirsty on a cross waiting to die from the toxin
Let's get back to it. Where's that naked boy? Wait, how long has it been? I got about 25 minutes this time before we got to the naked
Boy, thanks for keeping track
Everyone by the way, we're gonna have Neil come on here in just a minute
But let me wrap this all together. This is all the Bible. I've been reading to you all of it
Yeah, so you're not gonna be able to get any help when this thing is inside of you because it's you've got the poison
Right, that's the ass go to the next one. Chewie. That's the ass bright, but here's the entire passage
If you're so bent
Right on this evil
That is under your tongue
Right, right. You're gonna hide it
You're gonna hide it there
You're gonna hide this poison right under your tongue
Something that hides poison right under its tongue. We are square with the serpents these that are
Contest right you can be proud to the person who was commenting about
The order of the dragon and Vlad
right
Vlad I I see your Vlad and I raised you
Marulis
Yes, and I say look at the hymns of Marulis
The mercenary poet who fought with Vlad
This is the impaler. This isn't the modern Vlad of shame. This is Vlad the impaler
The member of the order of dragons
Yeah, order the dragon, baby
Yeah
Look at Marulis. He has it in his hymns very same cult very same cult. Yeah, fantastic. Love that comment by the way
Go ahead. Yeah, bring us up. Let's see. Yeah, so you're gonna keep this thing in your mouth, right?
You're not gonna you're never gonna turn away from it
You're addicted to this stuff, right and you're gonna keep it there in the middle of your throat and
nothing is gonna help
Because that holy is
In there and what is that holy that holy keep going down? Let's go the next one. Whoops. I need to go down to here
I think we're the let's check out
No, let's go back up to Kole, please. Where's the holy?
Oh, where's there it is
Yeah, there it is. Look at this guys. Take a look. Take a look at number four
Serpents venom, right? Serpents venom and we get this reference to Job
We also get a reference in the polydorus. Notice by the way
At number three. LXX of course is a Septuaget, right? It's a seven
Right and look at look at how bad the maserids
Do things are you ready? Hebrew rush a poisonous plant
Variously called hemlock and poppy. Okay stuff right there
That's how you know this the trans the original is not Hebrew
Right variously translated as hemlock or poppy
Any ancient roman or greek?
Would laugh at that you know the difference between hemlock and poppy is like incredible if you were some monk
Or you were some dude who was in a religious order or if you were some dude who was part of an orthodox order
You know what you would do you wouldn't know the difference and so you would throw them together in some garbage translation
That's what you're getting from the maserids
This text is not Hebrew. It is a very specific greek
And they couldn't translate it, right?
Julius africanus is going up to the guys working on the Hebrew
And he says to him he says, what are you doing? And they you know, this is greek
You know what you're doing is back translating this the Hebrew text doesn't exist
Ask your scholars. He says a question
Ask your Hebrew scholars what this word means just like a cub was one of the common trees says they don't know
Future conversation they don't know
Right because they're speaking greek. Hebrew has been dead for 400 years
Yeah, and they don't have the vocabulary anymore. Why didn't write anything down?
They didn't write anything down
Wow, and you mean you thought this text everything that I'm quoting to you tonight. You thought was Hebrew
Look how screwed up your perception would be if you put either opium or hemlock in that little thing
Boy, it's a good thing. We're not magicians or we'd be poisoning ourselves
Fantastic, okay. Let's keep going. Let's keep going. Let's just keep drilling. We've got a couple more and we're gonna jump jump to neil
Yeah, go ahead. The end of that translation the long one. I just want oh, there's no this is a good one
Take down the Bible so people can see this haughty theos theos
Up here ipsin. Oh, yeah. God totally bashed us right. He ripped us a new one
Yeah, and he forced us to drink the holey
He forced us to drink the holey
because we
we
failed
In just in front of him just in his presence. We failed
We failed
So what does he do?
He gives us the poison. What does Hercules do with this stuff?
What does Hercules do? Let's keep going. What does Hercules do?
Yeah
Oh, look at it. This is somebody else. Look people where this is from. We're going now from the Septuagint to the New Testament
Right, hold on you Bible scholars. I know hold on. I know you're not used to this because you're used to BSing the world
You're used to lying
Watch this
Edo con autoi pien oi non metaholes. What'd they do? They gave him wine to drink
with
holey
with holey and
mixed in
mixed in and
Yo, some minutes when he tasted it. Oh a thelesin
being
After he tasted it. He didn't want to drink it. He didn't want that wine. I saw him
He didn't want that
he's
Screaming I'm thirsty and in place of my for my thirst. They give me
the oxos
Now, thank goodness. There's a physician and a
medieval
Zoroastrian
fruitcake
magician who tells us that the
The antidote in his words the antidote for
the dipsass viper is
Is
Called oxas
Just dance what they call it
Yeah, so it makes sense. So we're seeing in the Psalms about druggies getting wasted on venom
So that a dude who is the chris dos
can then later
Sit on a cross and fulfill his mission
as
The son of god
Right right out of the myth
Right out of the cult right out of the history
Right out of the history
Yeah
Right out of the history
Hit hit us with in the our last I think we've got one more here
Boom. Yeah hit us with that first one. Yeah, um, I wanted you guys to see this
I just want you to look at the last line. Look at the eoboloise
Yeah, keras hale pasapo pimpay
Send out what does heracles do with his bows? He dips him in the in the hole of the serpent
Right, he dips it. He's one of these guys who uses those poisons, right? And here it is within him
This is not a document for us to it's not a musical. It's not some kind of entertainment. It's a hymn
meant to
be song
During the performance of the mystery. Okay, give me the give me the next one there
And then finally we're down to diascordies who's a physician and diascordies is going to tell us
He's going to tell us what we can do with the oak and
And the acorns that come from and the oak galls that he's going to be talking about it
Yeah, he says they're
Euretic and they're they treat kefalagea, you know headaches
And they can be consumed or they can be breathed in
They can be breathed in now my two sigh
now my two sigh
and
We have some things that are helpful when someone is eating the yobola
Wait a minute when someone's eating what? Yeah, when someone's eating that
Yobulos
Right, what is that yobulos?
Wait, it means shooting arrows. Yeah shedding venom or venomous animals. Oh, I see look at number two of arrows poisoned
And we get the orific hymn to
Heracles
Notice what's poisoned the hyma
The hyma that's that poison essence. That's that poison blood drink my blood when lady babelon gives us the cup
Right when lady babelon gives us the cup
We are drinking that fatal
blood that will put us into death
So that she can resurrect us
That's the mystery
1200 years
Before jesus is ever using the word christ
It is not a greek. It is not a hebrou word. It is a native
pre-hebrou greek
concept
Think about that just for one minute what i'm laying down tonight
Christos is pre-hebrou
colt greek
pre-hebrou colt greek. It is the state
of an oracular
child of god
The oystromania
Is the state of the prophet that is the christos
That is the christos
Okay, okay, let's look there's one more. Do I have one more thing?
Yeah, I had one more little thing. I just want you to see this little polydorus just so you don't think i'm
I'm BSing you or the last word in that first line
Is the word that's used to baptize
Right, this is just to die or to cover
With a liquid or a gel or a cream to cover something. Okay, so tay holey tus oystus
Ebopsin, what did he do? He's covered his arrows. He baptizes arrows tay holey in the holey
Okay, that's what he does. That's part
Look at the anthropology again second line ace tang holey and on the bapte
He he api bapte. Excuse me. He's doing the same thing. He's dipping his aki
Whoops
His you know akitas akitas. There it is. He's dipping his projectiles
Right akitas
Yeah
Right akitas
That's a projectile
The project something with a point comes comes from the root for point
Yeah, he's dipping them and what in that holey again
Right, it's a very specific use of a very specific drug from antiquity
And it is a cult drug. So when we find out the serpent has so many heads
Kefala and we're talking about
Revelation or pocalypse. We're talking about that dragon with the heads
Realize
Realize what we're talking about. We're talking within cult about the communion
Fantastic fantastic. No problem. It's not a flying dragon
I'm sorry to disappoint you but jr. Tolkien is full of it
Right, he's just kind of
It's kind of mythic masturbation with just a hint of norse dudu
Right, no offense to the norse. Your stuff is great, right, but
Wow
We're talking history people. We're talking history
Lastly, there is a word
In greek
That is the greek representation
No is the greek representation of what
Um, you would call messiah and that word is messias
Right, there was a greek word for it
Yeah, what happens when you make a greek word
For a hebra word and then claim that another greek word is that same hebra word
You're only doing that because you have to fake it
You're doing that because you have to fake it
Because you can't explain it
Christ is not messias
They are not equivalents
Yeah, we have just been reading the text of a bunch of drug using cultists
Those who founded your society and your philosophy and everything about the tiny religions that spring off as a result
All right, judaism christianity islam
Are the offspring of this religion
Yeah
Yeah
So
We're going to start looking
at these texts
And we're going to find every place where our greek where our pagan religion
has been
washed
and white washed
and sanitized
So that you get a version of something that doesn't exist
I'm going to show you the real religion. I'm going to bring you to that
Onokin kaoron
that
Bunky phallus sin par who's going to teach you about the drugs
Yeah, fantastic. Thank you for your time. I want to bring neil on now
I'm sorry to short you neil 10 minutes and I want to have a little back and forth. Maybe an interview neil say hello
It's good to see you. Thanks for having me on. I
Can I if I if I can just um
Bring up a few things in what you said because I couldn't agree more and you that was amazing. Well said well said
the
When we look at genesis
First of all, there's no one citing this text before
The ptolemaic times before alexandria
You never there's no one in persia. No one in babelon. No one in greece. No one in egypt ever mentioning
Abraham or moses or the genesis story. You only start hearing people citing this text
after the fourth century bce
and it's it's it's like
What what's going on here? Well, if you look at the if you look at the the court of ptolemy soter and his son
It's dimitri's philarion who comes from athens. He's a successor of all the socratic thinkers
He's a successor of play-doh and Aristotle. He's bringing down all that knowledge to alexandria
You've got borosus the chaldean coming over here manatho
Who's citing hacketeus of abdera where you get your first moses story?
And then you have calamakis the hymn writer who is using backing chants like hallelujah and amen
For pagan gods, but not for Yahweh or anything. So all of a sudden you're looking at this court of alexandria
Oh
I see what's going on here. They're putting together like a
steroid a religion on steroids right now. That's what's happening. And so
From from the greek perspective, it's all native. It's all flu. It's like all flows
You get terms like desi dominia
Which means the religious feeling that bacchic revelry feeling which gets translated into the fear of god
It means you have to fear god and be afraid of him. That's not what it means
It means it does. Yeah, it means fearing god, but it means the religious frenzy
Fearing of god. It's the religious feeling. It's that bacchic mania
And so when you get when it gets translated from greek and hebrew and then in english or then in the latin then in english
I should say you lose all the context. We have no idea what these people were talking about when you go back
And so the the the greek side is where it gets crazy. Now if I can one last thing I want to do
I I heard what you said about the christos thing and the oister mania thing
And I pulled out some sources if anyone wants to see this is from ascolis
Prometheus bound
So i'm going to share three screens real quick and then and then that's it then i'm done
The first one. I want to show the greek. So here it is right here. This is the greek
You notice how this is from prometheus bound ascolis
uh
566 right it has there you got your chance in the beginning. Yeah, uh, uh
There is here's your first word kriya
kriya
And then there's your oistros
So i'm going to click on this word right here, right? This is their kriya
Now what does this mean? I'll check this out. This is going to blow your mind
Here's the real
Here's the real origins of what a christ is
okay
kriya
I clicked on that word. Here's what it gave me kriya
kriya now we click on the lsj
Rub anoint all that stuff. It's the anointed right, but what's this one down here with the gadfly?
That's odd
Well turns out if we go back to ascolis
This is where it comes from
So i'm going to share them this is the last screen i'm going to show and then i'll show the translation actually
so the uh
If we go back to the greek text
You see this word oistros kriyo
tis a me tan tali
talinan oistros
We click on this oistros and what do we get?
well, let's let's uh
Let's switch my screen over to that word right now. I'll show you what i'm got what i got here oistros
the gadfly
So what is this kriya gadfly phrase happening? What's happening here? Well, let's do it
Let's see what let's go to the english translation just to speed this up a little bit because we could translate it ourselves
Which we normally do but just for the sake of time. Let's just see what uh
Let's just see what ellis has is for the translation real quick
i'm going to go to the text back to the text reveal what this all means
and you get
oh
a gadfly
phantom of the earth born argus is stinging me again
To be stung by the gadfly is the kriyo
And this is the first time you see this show up where there's a christos or a kriyo in any text
It's a it's a title
And in this case prometheus is being is is is being stung by the gadfly. He's becoming a christos
There it is. I mean, we're just pulling out sources here. This is not our theories or what we think happened
This is the source so
I just wanted to bring that up
Notice notice neil that it's that gadfly sting that brings that madness or what they called the
Ostromania if you just take that oistris and you look up
Ostromania it'll tell you this is the state that you enter when you're prophesying under the influence of the oistris
They said the mania then that mania has that that term mania has to be in there, right?
It's for profits. It's for the profits. It's what they used
We have a reference in diodorus to the christasa
the
self christing
of medea
Right, so when she enters that frenzy in order to do her thing
It's not it's not odd to us
That somebody was claiming a title of the one who is christed
It's not it's not odd at all to us
And it it just makes great great sense that he's in the shape that he is screaming about is being thirsty and whatnot
It's the same presentation of symptoms
So, yeah, I wanted you I wanted people tonight neil. What did you think about?
Reaching back into abakum
Um, we you know, he does talk about the soter
You know abakum or Habakkuk
He talks about the soter
And he talks about the salvation and we skipped over it, but he talks about the one
Who is that bringer that that great?
It's the first one. Chewie bring that up real quick. I need to show people
He is the one look at that. Look at that paragraph
That second paragraph there, right? He's he's look at that first verb or geese face. This is what kuryos is doing
He's entering that orgy in the rivers. He's entering that that extreme
satiric phase that when your satarian is kicked in and you're standing there with your erection
His thumos is in the waters
Right his what is that word?
Hormema
That's where you get hormones from that, right his impulse his sexual drives in that sea
Why do you think that that where do you think that power?
Reproduction comes from right and what's funny is the next line says
Right, this is all from your what you call the old testament. He says he gets up on his horses
And his horsemanship is his salvation stop if that's not a reference if that's not a reference
to the oyster maniac horse culture that is the
Kind of black sea civilian culture and there's one group in it, right?
But the group that produces that says hey, we're going to change our identity those arians and they change their identity to meads
This is that same horse culture that's spreading these drugs
and
It is working in concert in the tax with the purple trade as well
So we've got some we've got some things to start looking at if we can what do you think neil about?
I mean, this is an old testament prophet. What is how does all that strike you you mentioned because you mentioned how
There was a paradise and medea was the queen
And we can put it together through the primary sources and you can too because you you get medias venerated down in egypt
She's venerated over in italy. She's venerated and then you got the meads
Harada says that the meads own account of themselves that they used to be called arians
Until medea came and they changed her name to the meads because of her
That's like there's a there's a lot of sources to show that this stuff. There's historical layers happening here
It's not just fairy tale like this. This is some real bronze age history
That's being baked into these into these texts. Maybe that's how they tell the stories. I don't know what's going on here
But like there's so there's a layer of truth to this stuff
There's a there's an empire of the mind you and I have talked a little bit about
This there's an empire of the mind and I don't know which one of us first
Came up with the idea may have been you and I just called it the empire of the mind
But there is a spread of a mental culture
from from some people would say all the way from india to
The edge of europe right with the oracles up in britney
Some people would say it goes all the way that far when pindar
Trots out his oracle of medea and says that she was sitting
On thara the island as if she is governing the Mediterranean
She is telling people where their
Future generations will colonize. Isn't that weird? She's telling you in so many generations. You're descendant
Remind them will go should go off to north africa build a city called x
worship worship there someone they were saying that the um
The people that were living in the mass agatai
Which is probably another way to say
Magog or like the eastern sythians
Gog magog or mass agatai whatever there's probably different. There's probably a hundred different words to say it
But in this particular story
Cyrus is trying to go in there and say hey
Let let us marry your let me marry your queen
Which he already has a bunch of other queens that he's married to for political reasons
So so we can have their land basically so you can take their territory
Use it as a trading port whatever and this queen was like hit to it. She's like nah. We have no queen but medea
So then she ended up going to war with cyrus and she beat him the jewish messiah
Cyrus the only person in the whole old testament who gets called my messiah
Finds his end
From a queen in the middle of nowhere who has no wealth no no power
And she he goes out in there. I think he's just going to conquer everything
And she she ends up with his head in in her hand saying and then she takes his head. This is what she does
This is the truth. This is this is in her honor to us. She takes his head
puts it in a
Vass of blood
And then says now you'll never have to thirst for blood ever again
Whoa
That's and she said we have no queen but medea get out of my land
Like that's some like that's bad ass
This is who we're talking about we're talking about the world that no one ever talks about
But there's people there and they were they were brilliant people too, you know
Very good. Had very high culture and everything, you know, yeah lady babalon
It's something it's something of history that we just uh, it's better covered up
It makes us feel better
Uh, now that we're part of these offshoots judeism christianity as long it makes us feel better to kind of mop this up
I was jarring somebody's mind the other day. Tell me what you think about this neil with the whole pirate thing the lace days
Right with that second century pirate
queen, um
Yeah, the second century
pirate queen from across the
Um across the sea there on the east side of italy
Yeah, and she's uh tuta and she goes to war with the romans. She's like screw you
I don't want your you know, you're not going to come out here and tell me what to do. I'm the pirate queen
Well, they build a huge army like the biggest they have to that point went over there and you know and conquered
But people don't see that they're behind the oracles
Is a is a whole system of power
That is being exercised in antiquity and if you don't understand what a pirate queen is
If you don't understand how you could take somebody you could trade children
You could trade drugs and you could promote
The religion
That drives your society then you don't understand how the bronze age is put together
Right. I mean, it's just uh, it's amazing. I hope people can see
I hope people can see the big picture neil. Was there anything else that stuck out tonight?
Did you want just to comment on?
yeah, the last thing I was going to say is um
What you what you're seeing happening in the final centuries leading up to the common era
time jesus
you're seeing
A bunch of nerds basically getting together and saying well, we have this uh, we had this
This empire, you know, whether it's the mastodonians or romans doesn't matter because they're both doing the same thing
They're both they're trying to create this universal package of religion
Where in the bronze age had an understanding or not even just the bronze age, you know, the uh
The age leading up, you know, the iron age leading up to alexander's time all that
But like they had an understanding that wherever you went
Location wise if you were in cyprus you honored aphrodite if you were in
um, I don't know Athens you honored Athena and you had this regional thing happening
Everything was the there was a balance there
Then as soon as you started getting all these nerds getting together trying to create these universal religions like christianity and judeism and islam
It just seems like everything falls out of order
You know, there's more chaos from this. It just seems like the the it's a failure to try that
You gotta you gotta let people have their own culture
in and and uh
It just seemed to work better that way
It makes you think that maybe when they talk about civilization
You know and the value maybe it was something that they saw that they were building
There's a freedom in having libraries for example
There's a freedom in having all sorts of temples where all sorts of religious practices can happen
Right the drive to make it the one
I mean, couldn't you put neil jesus and his apostles and that group of nerds that you're talking about? Yeah
So the drive to make it that one
Exclusive group tends to be explosive naturally explosive. Yeah
Love it. Love it. I wish that we can reclaim
In our in our searches. I hope that we can reclaim what that christus really was
If we did we could probably understand a lot better who jesus was
Why he was doing what he was doing and why most importantly he was arrested in a public park at 4am with a naked kid
Yeah, yeah
Neil, I'll give you the last word. Thanks for coming tonight
All right, I'll take the last word the last thing young one of the last things young says carl young
In his famous red book
It says you need to recognize the multiplicity of the gods
You cannot unite them into one being
I was thinking about that
You got to let you got to let there be a diverse culture
you're not just gonna
Are unify them into one thing that you want let let
Let there be separations let there be diversity, you know
Look at the man pulling out pulling out the great cursed red book of carl young. I love it
Where else can you guys get this neil? Thanks for coming and I do just want to say by the way that neil's
Working on more videos and I have to say the last one that I saw
I was quite impressed with neil. I mean you're rolling out
Blockbusters one after another and I hope I hope that yours is coming yours is coming soon, too
I'm almost I'm
Can you tell the group a little just a minute about what it's about we're working on a video
He did the audio and I'm doing the videos and editing and it's about medea
So we'll premiere it sometime we should get it out there sometime the next week within this week. Yeah
And it's a
It's an honor to have been able to to have been able to work with you on that
And I hope that we can bring bring lady babble on as forward as crisp as possible. You know what I mean
Chewie says thanks and thanks to everybody for all the great positive comments that she's given
And uh, you didn't know chewie was a female, did you?
Right
I knew I knew that
Okay
The audience didn't know
Yeah, now something's been revealed right okay fantastic now. It makes sense doesn't no anyway
Um, thank you for coming tonight guys and thank you for continuing to be a great audience and uh, hail satan
Hail satan
Can't bring no flowers
To me on sunday
It's gonna break her heart
Not knowing what became
