Thank you.
Welcome back to Lady Babylon.
This is Wednesday night Bible study.
Tonight we will be covering a range of topics that all center around the storm of the drugs
and the mystery.
We will be able to talk with a special guest Travis kitchens and hopefully make some commotion.
Well tonight I thought we would start out by giving the offerings of a dead mage, a dead
magus who washed ashore recently.
He's been dead for almost 2000 years but he was put on trial.
He was put on trial for magic and it turned out well.
He came through and he ended up writing a whole bunch of stuff and I just want to resurrect
his words.
This is a prayer and this is a prayer like I am sure you have never heard.
Let's hear the words of the magus himself.
Oh Queen of Heaven, whether you are bountiful series, the primal mother of crops who enjoy
at the recovery of your daughter, took away from men their primal animal fodder of acorns
and showed them gentler nourishment and now dwell in the land of elusis.
Our heavenly venus who at the first foundation of the universe united the diversity of the
sexes by creating love and propagated the human race through ever recurring progeny
and now you are worshiped on the island sanctuary Apophos or Phoebus' sister who brought forth
populous multitudes by relieving the delivery of offspring with your soothing remedies and
now are venerated at the illustrious shrine at Ephesus or dreaded proserpina of the nocturnal
howls who in triple form repress the attacks of ghosts and keep the gates to earth closed
fast roam through widely scattered groves and are propitiated by diverse rites.
You who illumine every city with your womanly light, I told you you never heard a prayer
like this, nourish the joyous seeds with your moist fires and dispensed beams of fluctuating
radiance according to the convolutions of the sun by whatever name with whatever right
in whatever image it is neat to invoke you.
That's the prayer.
Right we're going to try to penetrate into the world that it's hard to believe exists.
There's a shock to it.
You won't understand it.
It won't feel good.
It won't feel right.
And that's where we deep dive.
So I want to deep dive with some real life chemistry and some real life serpents.
And in order to start there, we're going to start in order to get there, we're going
to start with Travis kitchens, Travis kitchens and Travis, would you mind regaling us a little
bit about your background with Kentucky and just lead us into the subject Travis.
When most people think of Kentucky, they think of the mountainous region of Kentucky, people
playing banjos, the whole tradition of folk music over there.
Then there's central Kentucky, which is horses and bourbon, then there's Western Kentucky,
which the Green River cuts right through it.
I'm from that region of Kentucky.
So my interest in servant handling culture does not really come from my background.
It comes from my participation in a study at Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, a psychedelic
clinical trial, and I became interested in the background of these studies and the science
behind these studies.
And one of the things I found interesting about them is that most of their footnotes
are from comparative religion and the psychology of religion.
And more specifically, William James, the main measurement that Hopkins uses, the hood
mysticism scale was created by a man named Ralph Hood, who's a professor and psychologist
at UT Chattanooga, and he is an expert in serpent handling cults.
So that's how I became interested in them.
And of course I said, Oh, that's weird.
I never thought that Johns Hopkins psychedelic study, you know, the history of psychedelic
research or Albert Hoffman and Timothy Leary and all these very highly educated intellectuals
and aristocrats like Aldous Huxley, I thought, Oh, there's a tie in to what I perceived
as sort of semi-primitive religious cults from Appalachia.
Semi-primitive religious cults.
You feel where we landed?
Boom.
Got a little dust up in her.
You can smell it.
Semi-primitive religious cults.
I bet these cults have something to do with music and I'd like to introduce you to somebody
who's actually living and sings.
Yeah, you're going to hear some of the heart.
You're going to hear some of the heart of this old, old, musty, burning purple mystery.
Yes, please.
One day nothing of this world will remain to say we were ever here.
Even our names carved in stone erased one day like we were never here.
We live a little while then we're gone forever.
Leave it up to the left behind.
What, when, where, why, what have we lived?
A little while then we're gone forever more, forever more.
So we've got snakes and we've got old cultural conceptions of drugs and animals, plants, things
that you can take into your body mingled with the idea of ecstasy.
And tell me, Travis, can we just take these atheists and tie them down and drug them?
You know, these studies produce all kinds of weird experiences.
They've done, you know, let me give you one.
They've done an informal survey study, but they published a paper on it that showed
that 90% of atheists who took psychedelics after one experience weren't atheists anymore.
This is dis, this, this is dismaying to many of the scientific researchers because it makes people essentially believe in supernatural things.
You have lots of alien, alien encounter experiences, alien entity experiences.
Telepathy, many people there's reports of telepathy.
Out of body experiences.
Speaking to dead relatives.
It's the whole panorama of supernatural experiences.
So, so, so the answer to your question is they're having a whole lot of trouble separating those things from the therapeutic experience because it seems to be that this experience of God is the therapeutic benefit.
So we can bring therapy.
This is fantastic.
Look what we've got.
We've got the cult up and running.
There's a great, great psychoanalyzing trauma healing warrior with the DR in front of his name and expertise in Jung.
I thought I would add his quote of the day at this point just to tie everything together.
And this is in the context.
This is in the context of us discussing the treatment, the treatment of the modern mind, the treatment of the soul, right?
I would have given you the water of life.
And this is what we're discussing because John is right on the frontier of that.
And he's right in there.
He's in the think tank.
He's right in there.
He knows what he's doing.
And where are we, John?
What can we do?
Go ahead.
Yeah, you can't just give someone hermaphroditic sex juice.
That's a lot.
That says a lot.
That says a lot.
Yeah.
Where are we in Bible studies?
We are in the apocalypse of John.
And don't get your pants in a bunch.
If I tell you that this thing was never written by a man could not have been written by a man and will be shown not to have been written by a man.
It was written by a civil.
It was composed.
It's music.
And we're going to go dance with the dragon and see what that has to do with the order of the rose.
But before we do, I want to thank.
I want to thank Travis, but I want to thank Travis for reaching out to artists who are buried.
And who try to honor the muse this way.
Remember, we're not all of us are here because because of the news.
You can't come to this template, this sacred space that we have constructed without following the news.
So, so thank you, Travis.
We're talking about a rose and the order thereof.
Yeah, the order of the rose.
We're going to start and end up with in the same place.
And that place starts with a romance and it ends with Sappho on the island of Lesbos.
Yeah, and the power of this goddess that we just prayed to.
And and I wanted that to stick in your minds because that is a prayer that you wouldn't.
You wouldn't necessarily associate with today in the midst of our modern culture global, the whole thing.
So I want to shock you into the commonplace in antiquity where it doesn't seem odd that we have a female that we are recognizing as the divine power that guides us all.
Yes, the very author of life.
Beautiful stuff. Could you give your yellow roses now, Chewie?
This is the bright and wondrous sun.
Don't you feel so alive when you have undergone the wondrous present sun?
Yeah, yeah, the rose, babe.
Now you see the image of the budding rose and this image I am transferring to you so that you will be able to sit within the mind of our ancient audience, this budding, this swelling.
This is the orgy. This is the we're about to look at a passage. It's the orgy. It's the moment that we're all looking for. It's while we're all here, right?
And this moment is going to appear in the 12th chapter of the book of John's called the apocalypse.
Yes, I want to look at this section and I want to look at the dragon and you remember this is about the woman who's having the child and it's about the dragon and it's about this inner relationship and the chasing.
Yes, yes, let's look at the text. Shall we pull up the Greek, please?
Fantastic. I'm one step behind. Just give me a second and I'm going to move my chair over so you can see just the side of my face. You might as well.
Yeah, verse 13 here.
When the dragon saw that he's was thrown to the earth.
Yeah, Dioko to pursue to pursue to pursue. This is this is a good word because it can be for the sake of advances, a passion, a passion, a consuming passion, a pursuit. Good.
Good. Yeah.
I hate this etiquette on Arsena, the one that bore the child, like I told you, and it was given to her. What was given to her?
Tu ai tu tu megalu. Oh, this is wonderful. Now, this is where you might, you might profit by coming tonight. You might profit here. This is the best place to learn this. Are you ready?
Because you're not going to find it elsewhere, right? Nobody's, nobody cares.
Look at this. She has two wings. They were given her two wings, but it says wings to I do, which an eye to is translated as an eagle. Can we bring it to a place? Yes.
Yeah. Mm hmm. Look at this. This is a wonderful, lovely, lovely word here. Whoops. I'm sorry.
This is a lovely word here. You're going to love this. An eagle. But notice what they say. An eagle has a bird of omen. An eagle has a bird of omen. It's very important that you see the omen there.
Remember, they don't see the same eagle that you do. Surprise. Here we go. Eagle as a standard. That's nice. Number two, omen. So an eagle can be an omen.
Excellent. Look at number five is the name of a bandage. That's cool. Obviously from the shape and the temporal. Nice. Look at numbers eight and astrology and magic. It's a fabulous plant growing in Libya.
That's, that's, that's from Galen. Panphilius Apu Galen. Yeah. So that's where you get a lot of your, your, your, your good info from those docs. But listen to me. This eagle, it's not just any eagle. If we can pull up the text again, this is the eagle, which one to eye to to make Galu. And by the way, there is a
DIGAMA. It's AWETU or AWETOS is, it's got the DIGAMA. It's old, old, old Mycenaean word. Old. Excellent. I love pointing, pointing out DIGAMAS. We're going to have a club of DIGAMAS. What, which one? The eagle, megaloo. This is the title of the one. The great eagle. The one that represents and accompanies
Zeus, God. Do you hear me? God, Zeus. The eagles, wings were given to her and to this woman. And not just any eagles, but the great eagles. This great eagle is the same one that you have seen who stands over
Prometheus and removes his liver, eats out his liver. And as Valerius Flaccus would tell you, that eagle is the Medua, the Medea. Yeah, yeah. So now, okay, now what do we have? We have a little bit of context in here. We have a little bit of, you know, linguistic fingerprintery so that we can say, Well, what is this text really, Tom?
What are you talking about? What's going on? Yes. Okay, so let's go down. Let's go down to verse 17. And the dragon, bring me up. I need everybody to see this. This is huge. The dragon did what? To the woman? Yeah, yeah.
He literally positionally over her. What is he doing? He's he's ordering. Can we see what this verb or go is, please?
Mm hmm. Oh, that's okay. Yes. There we go. You got the right one. Thank you, Chewie. I want you to look at. Oh, now if I can find the right one. Take a look at this. My greats, my great multitude.
Oh, there is. Okay, here's mine. Orga. Oh, nice. Nice. Nice. To be getting ready to bear. Okay, so this is a verb and it means to be getting ready to bear. To be getting ready to bear what? Pop. Pop. Boom. Right. It's that moment. Boom. That explosion. Boom of life. Boom. Love it.
Growing ripe for something. Right. It's time. You're growing ripe. You see the rose, the order of the rose. You're growing ripe. Right. Nice. Swelling. Swelling. Something's swelling. Look at number Roman numer, number two of men. It's like, Oh, Friga. Oh, to swell with lust. Or to wax wanton. Or to be rampant.
Is anyone else being rampant? I'm not quite sure what that means exactly. I don't even know what to wax wanton really is. But I understand to swell with lust. That I understand. Thank you. Those Victorians. A round of applause for the Victorians. Yes, we.
To be in heat. To desire sexual intercourse. Yes, be in heat. Remember, these are farming cultures that we're talking about. They've got livestock. They've seen the cattle when they come into estrus. Wait a minute. Did somebody say estrus? That's a profound moment.
Yeah.
It's Easter time. That's when you do the estrus. Right. Fantastic. The Germans worship her. What was her name? Oh, Stara, I think. Beautiful stuff.
Oh, this is you can't look. You can't dive too deep into this material. You really can't. So here's our verb or go, you know, meaning to wax wanton, right? To wax wanton. So from that verb, we derive a whole slew of different org roots. And we've got or gay or gay.
Okay, natural impulse or propensity, right to have a here's the noun. It's an abstract natural temperament disposition. But then look at Roman number two. It also means anger.
A person at the point of that orgasm on is the is at the point of extreme anger.
Wow. And that anger is the same as that romantic sexual passion.
Wow.
Wow. It must be quite a place to be taken with by a priestess with the right pharmaceuticals. Wow. Okay, that's that's fantastic. You know, Hail Satan, right? Let's get our bucket chorus going.
Tear up into the mountains and steal some babies. Yeah, there's baby stealing. Sorry. It's the blood.
Okay, anyway, let's go to I want to show you one more verb that is related. And that is free.
Oh, yeah, there. Wait, nope. That's not. Here we go. Yep. Ah, there we are.
Look at this. Srigado to be full to bursting to be plump, especially of a woman's breasts.
So the idea of the life there, the nourishment, the generation beginning and all that kind of stuff, the milk. I love to ask Dr. Carl Ruck about ancient milks, what kind of milks are there, you know, he wrote an entire work on fluids that come out of the body.
Fantastic stuff. Love it. Sweats. Anyway, look at this for generally of young persons or a high fed horses. I'm not quite sure with the. Yeah, I mean, I love horses and it took care of horses, but I'm not quite sure what he's going for.
Etc. To be fresh, vigorous in full health or strength that bloom. The idea of the bloom is in this word. It's in this root system that's following the org roots. And it's the idea of the budding to completion, kind of a cycle of life.
Right. The efflorescence of the beauty is there in the budding of the rose. Right. Blossoming. Nice. I'm looking number four swell with desire or again to be at heat. So specifically the period of estrus.
And why is it that we are so interested in the estrus? Because that is everything within the cult. That is the morning star. Let's go back to our text. I've told I told you from last week I want to make sure that you understand the throne because I want you to be able to facilitate your initiation into the satanic
way, Saturnian way. And in order to do that, you really need to understand the direction that you're going. You're going to unravel to find out what that source is from the very bottom. And you're going to work with that source to build what is the real.
Right. It's, it's a complete reason is all that we can have to guide us. Bring us back to the text, please. Chewie.
Yes. So what happened?
Verse 17.
So he did that or get on her.
Right. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good.
Kayap Elfin, Puyesai, Palamon. Okay. So and then he goes on to make war with seed.
So, where are we?
How do we find the meaning behind what he's saying with this woman and this
dracon? What is the original, right? So we're not looking at the fiction. We don't want the fairy
tale side. We want the real side. So I showed you for just a minute, I showed you the reference
to the goddess who relieves the pains of birth. I showed you that. And I want us to realize that
the estrus, or the oistrus, is that chemical. It's the concrete real bond that we have with
this history, is that chemical. The worshipers of Diana, who was one of this great goddess
that we all are drawn to, who we'll call Dawn. And we'll say that Lucifer's job is to bring that
Dawn to you, to bring her. Wisdom is out in the street. She's crying out there saying,
if you take me in, I'll stay with you. Fantastic. So here we are with the dragon and the estrus,
the oistrus. So we're all engaging in something that is developed and supported by the images that
are being generated by women who are in this way. And these women can burn off your mortality.
You can enter into a state through a combination of music or song. They say the song is the most
important element. In combination with pharmaceuticals to interact with the risen form,
they call it, the risen form. And that's why we're all here in the apocalypse, right? What do you
think was being revealed? An apocalypse is a revelation. It's a revelation. And with that,
the stroke of 730 comes. And I just want to leave you with an impression. As we progress,
I want you to be able to sit on the throne. What does that mean? The throne of Satan.
What is the throne of Satan? You can watch a thousand shows. You can watch a thousand shows.
You can watch a thousand episodes on YouTube all about the throne of Satan. And none of them
are correct. None of them. Tonight, I offer you, shut up, Jung, I offer you the throne of Satan.
What is the throne of Satan? It is the place from which the satanic power is exercised.
It is the star. And if you draw down the star,
you can use the images provided by the dead to be born again.
You asked about magic last week and wanting to do the magic until you are sitting on that throne.
The physics are explained this way. When it gets in the physics, I get sort of lost. But the makeup
of the universe is such that there are compartments, no zones. And in these zones,
one of them is called the wilderness in Greek. That is where the power of the Saturnian reigns,
reigns in the wilderness. So anytime you see somebody pulled from Uranus,
which we see in the Apocalypse 12, pulled from Uranus and shot into the wilderness,
then you are seeing an explanation, an analog of how the physics work between two dimensions
that are overlapping. And I can't go there. But what I can do is tell you how they presented this
as accessible to you. Because we are all here, obviously if you are listening to me.
Is anybody not here? But in the Eremon, in that wilderness, we will see that come up.
You have certain rulers in certain places. This is an analog, right? A logia. So you have
certain rulers in certain places. And Lucifer is the ruler of this world.
Your access to that authority and that power comes through the star. I am telling you what
the texts have told me through the Muse. It comes through Asterian. That's how the Oystrus
allows us to become Oystromaniacs looking for Historia.
Yeah, it's gorgeous. So for those of you who have ears to hear, you will understand the star.
Yeah. And maybe now you'll be interested in the order of the rose.
Chewie, would you mind giving our thanks to Travis Kitchens? I just want to thank Travis Kitchens.
Could we play the thanks to Travis Kitchens?
And for the rest of you, I have a couple of questions to answer. And I'm going to save those
because there's two that are directly relevant to Friday night's Satanic initiation, our Saba.
And I want everybody there who can to be seated on the throne. Yes. Yeah. And then maybe we can enter
that state, the Orgiastic Mental Quantum State. Yeah, glorious, glorious stuff. Love it. We're
going to follow the beast and unfold these texts that you can see exactly what's being said. No PS
here. Just exactly what it says when it says the seal is a drug that you put in your insert in your
rectum as a suppository. Right. When you break those seals. No, now you start to get it. Yeah.
Welcome. Welcome. Be on that throne next week and Hail Satan.
