I let that liquor drown my days Now I'm taking my last ride
I paid the highest price you can pay And I'm on my way to Potter's Field
Potter's Grave is where I'll be To rest until the end of time
For all eternity
Welcome back. It's the premiere of Season 5, Satanic Initiation.
And I am so glad to see you all. I have the most dank tonight that you can possibly get.
This is history's dank. We have to go in deep tonight.
Set your stomachs for queasy, because I am going to bring you a doctor.
And this doctor is going to describe to you what it's like to become a Bacchic initiate.
Lovely. That is coming tonight.
And we'll have a little bit of Chuck with us as well. Good old Baudelaire.
To bring us the theme of the Satyrs. Thank you. Thank you Chuck.
All tonight on Satanic Initiation, Lady Babylon.
Tonight I want to start us off with a little bit of an announcement.
I'm going to be working with Gnostic Informant on some video productions.
And I will bring to you a series about the great queen of the mystery, the great Lady Babylon.
I'll be bringing those to you thanks to the power of the new art and the school of the Neoterax.
That's right. We get to watch the Neoterax at work.
Can we bring up the image one more time? Can we bring that up, Chewie?
I love that image. This is striking and fantastic. I just want to wet your appetite.
Because you're about to find out about the lineage of Amon's Muse.
You're about to find out the lineage. Fantastic. Let's get tonight. We're going to get deep.
We're going to get dirty. Where's my whip?
I knew I had to bring you good stuff, right? So I've dug down deep. I've gone deep.
And we're going into the Saders. We're going to see exactly who they are and what they're doing.
And we have a little film for you. We have tightened. We have tightened the psychological screws.
And now you've got the perfect images. We are bringing this subliminal paradise tonight.
Chewie, set us a course for the first clip on the Saders. Let them out. Let out the Saders, please.
Who are they? I want to bring up right now. I just want us to get to our summoning.
We're necromancers. We love it today. I want us to bring in Aritaus, Cappadocia.
We're going to the second century, right? Set the clinometer for the second century.
We're bringing in a physician. Let me just say this before we get busy.
You cannot find this on YouTube today. You are getting exclusive material.
You're getting the real stuff. I'm going to bring them to you and bring that ghost.
And I'm going to shove that depiction of that Sader right in your face, right in your face.
I want you to be up close and personal. I want you to smell it.
I want you to be able to smell the foam on his lips.
You ever see a goat? You ever see a goat in that place of Santoriasis?
You ever see a goat in that place? They get a little bit of foam.
A little bit of foam. A little bit of foam.
And that foam, says the doctor from the second century, smells just like the stuff that's on the lips of the Saders, the Bacchans.
Yeah, those uncontrollable. Let's get, wait, we're going to the initiation.
Boom, boom, boom. You can hear it, right? In the distance. Boom, boom, boom, boom, boom.
There we go. Yeah, let's go into it.
Bring up a doctor. Bring up a doctor. See what he tells us. Tell us, mad doctor.
I'll grab my text right here. This is the only place you can get this. You know why?
Because nobody wants to teach this. Nobody wants to talk about this. Nobody wants anything to do with it.
Because there's no, there's no scent of money on it, right? It's just a...
I put on my glasses, by the way. A lot of you like that.
Here we go. This is chapter 12 of his work on acute diseases, right?
Artaeus of Cappadocia. By the way, for my students, thank you all for coming back.
Look at the text here. This is heavy in the Ionian. Heavy in the Ionian. Really? It's got some Ionian stuff.
Really? It's a little bit of kind of strange combos. Okay, anyway, let's take a look at...
It's good, though. It's good. Pretty straightforward prose, right? Love it.
So this is Artaeus. And that first line is on satiriasis, right? On satiriasis.
And what is satiriasis? Well, the first thing he tells us is the satyrs are the priests of Dionysus.
Isn't that nice? And they're depicted always in the painting and in the sculptures, as you know.
They're depicted with Orthia... Idoia, excuse me. Orthia... Idoia, right? What is your Idoia?
What is your Idoia? Those are your genitalia. Genitalia. And how are their genitalia appearing?
Orthia, you know, you go get your T straightened and it's orthodonture. It's that straightening.
It's that tension. He tells us there's a tension. Boom. The Neura are tense. Okay?
That is your satyr. Your satyr has that tension. Excellent.
This is all the Xumbalani says. This is all that symbol, right?
This is all that quantum under-girding of the universe, right? It's in the form of that erection.
Okay. Okay. I think I'm seeing that. Right. Remember, boom, boom, boom.
Boom, boom. Off in the distance, right? You hear the... You hear him?
Getting the instruments going, right? Get your stuff on board.
By the way, he tells us what the drugs are that these people are using. He tells us what they are.
I got to tell you, since we're on our way, you're going to see us walking by some people that are naked.
Okay. They're covered on their genitalia and their planes.
They're planes? Planes. The land between the obstructions is the plane. Do you understand?
Yes. That's where you put... That's where you put it. Yes. That's where the spasms are.
Right. That land called the perineum. Have you been to the cafe perineum? Yeah.
Do you know what it smells like there? Smells like fine, fine incense. Yeah. Yeah.
Welcome to the Satyrs. Let's go back to the text. What else is Doc? Let's squeeze this Doc for all the information we can get out of him.
Doc, tell me something about these patients.
Let me blow this up.
Yeah. Tell me about these patients, Doc.
He says the thing that they're in, right, is a condition.
It's a condition. Most of his patients are boys, okay?
Younger boys, right around puberty. It's the group that he's dealing with because they are working initiations. Fantastic. Fantastic.
What does he say about satirizes? Satirizes is a horme. It's an impulse that is ungovernable.
Completely uncontrollable. It's an impulse. And it always leads to homilia. And you say what? The Satyrs are going to homilia. What is that?
That's union. Union. Can it mean sexual intercourse? Yes. Does it mean sexual intercourse? Yes.
It's the union. Okay. Thank you very much.
But he says the problem is, while they're in this state, even having intercourse repeatedly, body to body, he says, you know, Doc is trying to tell us, right?
Give us the biological details, Doc. He says they can be body to body, pounding, right?
And still, no relief. No relief. Still, they have that orthea, that stretching, that erectness. Yes.
Now, he says if this goes more than seven days, you'll kill them. You can't let somebody go for seven days. So if somebody comes on day five, right?
It's supposed to be over. The initiation is only three days, right? It's supposed to be done. But it's not. Drugs haven't worn off, right?
I mean, imagine having an erection for a week.
What are they putting in this stuff? Doc, tell us what are they putting in this stuff? They're putting in the plants that have the highest sky amine, the atropine, the ones that induce the scopolamine, the ones that induce the madness.
Is anybody surprised here? Everybody here knows that already. But they're also using some acacia, and they're using opium, and they're doing this thing where they cover the genitalia.
It's purple. I don't know. It's kind of like a mask. Yeah. Yeah. It covers the area, and the people who enter into the ecstasy.
Tell us, Doc, what kind of symptoms do we get when we're in bachic ecstasy? Are you guys ready for this? Are you guys ready?
Chewie, I hope you got a good picture of this.
Yeah. When we're about to enter into the visionary state, we start spasming in our genitalia and in that area that's just between the two obstructions.
It's the perineum. Right in that area, we get spasmings, and he says from the tip, from the organ, we'll drizzle out.
That's what it says. It's Ichmada. Drizzle off drizzlings. Drizzlings of what? Flegmatic material that has an appearance. It's clear like perspiration, and it drizzles out during the spasming right out of the organs.
Now, you think I've been talking about just men, right? Or just somebody with an erection, right? But the text Doc tells us, right? He tells us women have the same effects without the true satiriasis.
Yeah. Yeah. And then he gets a little bit negative and he gets into a negative mode. We have to tell him, stop. Stop, right? Let's see what's going on.
And he says, okay. What does it do to your brain, Doc? What does it do to your brain?
Aritaus. It's phrenoblaptic. I'm sorry. That was a little bit. Intriloquist. It's what?
Phrenoblaptic. It does what? It breaks your mind.
Isn't that nice? Phrenoblaptic. There's a word for this. Why is this even important? Because this is the process that they're entering into within the mystery operation.
They are losing it. They are losing it. You have to lose it to be born again, right? You have to lose it.
Okay. So where are we so far with the satyrs? We're talking about days. We're talking about taking drugs that cause you to have satiriasis, right?
We're talking about an age group that's primarily, according to this doctor, pubertal boys.
Yeah. And that it's involved with initiations. Initiations. Okay. Okay. I think I'm beginning to see a picture that's emerging.
Let's see if the good doctor has any additional evidence. Yeah, you know, they have some problems.
He said, you know, look, when we put you through this causes you to get what we call disordered speech.
So you're not going to be able to communicate and it will bump up the madness.
But what is it? What did you say? You're dirty. Oh my goodness.
He says all that they can think of is coming to intercourse and they will just drop everything.
And all their clothing and they got this giant satiriasis going on and they'll just chase you down.
Just they just cannot be controlled. Why? You say, why would we ever need one of these?
Well, remember, as the physician will tell you, this is associated with Addis, Addis and the great mother.
This is Phrygian. Remember, this guy is Cappadocian bra, right?
He's familiar with the games from the Phrygians. He knows how it is. He knows ecstatic cult.
He's got no problem, right? This is new to you. You think, wow, my God, right? No, it's the same, you know, it's the same thing.
Okay, so, you know, if you have a great mother and you got Addis, right?
And you initiate Addis as only the great mother can.
You bring Addis to that place. You know what they call Dionysus first? They called him Dionysus of the semen.
Can we bring up that? Can we bring up Addis? Where's Addis? We missed you, Addis, for two weeks, right? I didn't.
I spent every day with you, Addis. I know that we have that thing going.
Hey, here's the title. Hue or Hueis is a, as you'll notice here, this is Hesechias.
You know, who invited this guy? No, that's okay. Hesechias is cool, right? Have a seat, buddy. Here he is.
Look, he's, what is he saying? He's saying, Hueis is who? It's Sabaeus, right?
And then the bottom one, Hue is Simile, right?
Coming from this moisture, right? This is Simile. This is Simile from the moisture.
Oh, oh, I'm starting to see it. You starting to see it?
Show us, show us this one. I think it, no, it's not that. It's this one. Check out this one, guys. Hueis, right?
An epithet of Dionysus. Yeah, right? Right? The god of fertilizing moisture. You didn't believe me.
You didn't believe me. Look at this next line. Oh, just feel this one as we slide, as we slide this one in.
Just feel it. Let it go in. Hueis, Ateis. Yeah. Downfall meaning.
Downfall meaning, say the nerd scholars who never get out.
Yes, don't worry. Don't worry about it, right?
Okay, so we've got Sabaeus here. We've got Sabaeus. Fantastic.
Now, I want to give you a little film to refill your mind with those images.
But in order to do that, I'm going to call up Chuck. Chuck, come on, Chuck.
I promise I'll beat Paul the apostle with a horse whip.
If you come up, Chuck. Chuck, thank you. It's so nice to see you.
Ladies and gentlemen, Charles Baudelaire.
Thank you, Chuck. I appreciate that.
Thank you, Chuck. I appreciate that. That's the perfect mood that brings us to her.
So we've got these saders and what are we going to do with them?
What do you do with the pubertal kid who is in a state of mania with an erection?
And that is what the great mother and her priestesses use as the raw material for bringing a person from the immature to the mature.
Yeah, from the child to the adult, an initiation, co-mingled with a death and resurrection.
And that resurrection is the satiric erection.
You know, we're told it is the very heart of the God.
It's the earthly token that shows you have a connection with the divinity, with the leader of the mystery.
It's fantastic. Fantastic.
Now let's go to her. Bring on. Bring forward the text with Medea, please.
I just want to give you a quick look at...
Yep, should be it.
Oh, here's one. I want to start with this.
Who is this guy? This is something pants.
I want to say messy pants.
No, I don't know who this...
Yeah, Paleo something.
Paleologous or something.
Pathlegone. I don't remember.
Did I write down his name?
He's not...
I'll thank you. That's rude of me.
I'm sorry. That's rude of me, too.
But here he is.
He wrote his action on Medea.
I was like, I don't care where his name is.
They didn't even know when he lived.
Okay, here he is.
Mr. Pea. Dr. Pea, can you tell us?
Look at the top. It's about Medea, right?
Perimedeus. Isn't that nice?
And so this is...
Yeah, this is about her abilities
and turning the old to the young
and how she had this thing going
where she didn't want to be recognized by the doctors, right?
For what she was doing.
Isn't that neat?
Oh, wow. She was doing independent stuff with drugs
on people, on people.
Fantastic. And what does it say that she's doing?
It says that she is using the incubations
where they're fumigating you.
Where they're filling the place with a smog, right?
And letting you...
Sometimes you're doing an intense, right?
Sometimes it's just in the open air with a giant, you know,
barbecue-like altar full of bricks of incense
and it's just... It's like, you know,
somebody don't call the fire department, right?
That kind of thing. You know what I mean?
But sometimes it's under a little tent, too.
My cityans like to do that.
They were like, let's go under a tent.
Everybody get a shower together, right?
A shower of smoke.
That's the city.
The city on a seetha, right?
Or skutha is the Greek color.
Like or seetha. Much better.
That's what they call medea. That was her title.
Seetha. Excellent. Excellent.
What happens here, though?
Medea gets involved with some fumigations.
Yeah. And more drugs.
They talk about a couple of dyes.
Yeah. She discovers there's certain colors
that can be used in a medicinal way.
It has to do with the hair.
Always putting it in the hair.
That's why they're finding it.
Remember, they're finding it in Menorca.
You guys in Menorca who's defining the hair with a dye on it.
Thank you.
Okay. Let's go to the next text, though.
This is the one... Okay.
This is what we've waited for.
We've got to have something climactic here, right?
Here is a text that I just wanted...
Yeah, let's go ahead. Bring that up.
I want to have some history here.
And it says... I'm going to walk you through the process.
I'm just going to translate it.
And I'm going to walk you through the process of initiating via medea.
This is what you do.
So they say that she assembled an image of Artemis that was hollow.
A hollow image of Artemis.
Into it, she put Pantodapas, Fusseis, Pharmacon.
She put drugs of all sorts of powers.
Yeah.
And then what does she do?
She...
Do you see that on the fourth line?
What are you looking at?
I promised you the first Christ.
I promised you the first Christ.
Look at the fourth line down.
Second word from the ending of that line.
Isn't that nice?
She Christed herself.
She Christed herself.
Did she anoint herself?
No!
No!
Why?
What's the difference?
You go to the bath and you get anointed with oil.
You get Christed.
You start seeing stuff.
And what was that?
Oh, I'm sorry.
What was that, Doc?
Eretaeus?
What was that?
Oh, you get what kind of symptoms?
Deep saw this.
Deep saw this.
You get thirsty.
Really, really thirsty.
Okay.
All right.
Well, that's a side effect, right?
Side effect.
That's why we carry wine around in jugs, right?
You get thirsty, I mean, you know?
Okay.
So what does Medea do?
She builds this image, this Adalon, this statue that has an interior that's empty, right?
And what does she put in it?
A bunch of drugs and then Christ herself to enter into Mania so that she can then take
the idol, take it down.
She can then take the idol throughout the city.
It says she walks with the people and fumigates them.
And what happens is says that they get in the attic, not in the attic, but in the attic,
they get that goddess within and Medea says, I am here to put on yellow.
I am here to announce to you the good news, the good news of the Christ.
What's your good news, Medea?
I'm starting to hallucinate.
My good news, my good news is that goddess that you see right there being pulled by dragons,
she has come to bring you salvation.
She does this and they're all like, I'm there.
I am totally there and they sacrifice and they celebrate.
And it says that Medea is able to so control the minds of the people there that she then
murders the king, but she has her daughter, the king's daughters do it.
She gives them instructions.
Oh my goodness.
How is she doing all this over and over and over again with her drugs, with her drugs.
She even has things that she's blowing up.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Remember, she ruled Babylon.
She ruled Babylon.
She put that big tunnel under the Euphrates, right?
Is Medea the first Christ?
Yes.
The very first Christ.
She lives by the four rivers.
What do we shout when we celebrate her?
Ew.
Ew.
Eve.
We shout Eve and we keep Eve's eyes open.
We keep them open.
Yeah.
You see, it's an on story, but the reality of your reality is that the mysteries, Judaism, Christianity, Islam, the
mysteries on which they're based were started by a woman as a part of becoming the savior.
They call her the Sotera before there was ever a savior who had a male member.
There was a savior who bled communion, who bled communion.
Isn't that gorgeous?
That's just, that's just, it's, it's so Pulaskian.
It's so Pulaskian.
And people are going to tell you, they're going to be talking about how far back does this go?
And where does it go?
Jesus Christ is a part of a long tradition of rights and the corruption of those rights.
Yeah.
Yeah.
We want to look back and we want to see what the original are.
We can't get there without the saders.
If you can please in comments or in some sort of, you know, communication that we can have with each other, just put in the comments.
If you can, if you can tell me what it is that a group of drug wielding women and where's this coming from?
This is Amazonian baby.
What kind of women are these?
Let's just paint a portrait of them real quick.
I mean, come on.
How bad is that?
That's not a bad date.
You know what I mean?
That's not a bad date.
We can paint a portrait of her.
She is one of these civilians.
She's one of these Amazonians.
Her breasts were both burnt.
Not one of them.
Both of them.
You know, seared when they're fairly soon after they're born, after they make it through that period of where they're not sure if they're going to make or not.
Put them in the cold river and freeze them, pull them out if they're hardy enough to make it.
Good.
Put them in the fire.
Yeah.
Take them through the ritual.
Can they make it through?
Oh, this one didn't make it.
What are these people doing?
Did you and I are born into a generation of untested.
You realize that, right?
Untested.
When you're one of these Amazonian women.
You're not.
You don't have plans to get married.
Right.
You have plans to rule and to administer and to bring order and justice.
Isn't that nice?
And to kill enemy.
You got to kill three of them before you can get, you can get into a baby making partnership with a dude that we can dispose of.
Right.
He's done.
Or you can keep him and give him the baby.
He'll raise it.
Right.
He'll raise the baby.
And if she gets to a certain age where she can now compete and be involved with the horses and everything, then we bring her into society.
Right.
Yes.
Are you afraid of this woman?
I hope you are.
I hope everybody out there is afraid of this woman because that's the woman they're talking about.
So you take a group of these women.
Okay.
And you give them a person who is coming through puberty entering that budding.
The doctor says they're right at that point.
They walk around the right at that point of ejaculation of that completion.
It's a symbol of their life.
Right.
They're right at this bursting forward point.
Right.
That's what hormones are.
Hormes.
That rush forward.
Right.
That's hormones.
That's how hormones act.
Right.
And that's what he's, but yeah, I was kind of too much into the hormone thing.
Yeah.
When that's what's going on, right?
He says they're entering this thing, this phase.
You got to realize this group of women are doing something with that initiate.
And does it involve intercourse?
Yes, it does just from the terminology they're using.
Right.
Definitely.
And that's why the drug that they're using it has a, it has an abortivation in it.
Right.
This is not to get pregnant.
None of this is to get pregnant.
Right.
This is idolatry.
We are worshiping that image.
Worshiping that image.
Okay.
Okay.
Does it feel more pagan in here?
You feel a bit.
Okay.
Okay.
Right to me.
Tell me.
I'm fascinated.
What sort of education is this?
What sort of transition?
What are the drugs doing in the brain?
All right.
What are you bringing a person into when you bring them through this initiation?
And do you want to be running around with a group of women who are known to kill and
eat people?
You ever had a Scythian suck out your blood while you're dying?
They will hit you on the head, cut you, cut you.
Just open you and devour.
Oh, my God, really?
Where are these people?
Right.
Where are these people?
It's because you and I didn't get dunks in the river, man.
We'd have gotten dunks in the river.
We'd had some of these people.
They had something going in antiquity.
It's gorgeous.
I love it.
Okay.
What I'm working on for you, I'm going to stop there tonight.
But what I'm working on for you is bringing these images that we have from the mysteries,
bringing them to you via the most modern technology possible so that you can have an experience
via the images.
It's the new art.
This is the new art and everybody get on board.
So I'm going to show you that video before Satanic initiation.
I expect by next Saturday, it'll be finished next Friday.
Excuse me.
And I will show that first.
I'll make that available first.
And then it'll be 30 minutes long.
22, so I had 23.
Not very long at all.
Then I'll pop on and I'll have a live bit so that we can have some interaction.
I'd like your opinion.
All of you art critics out there.
I would like your opinion, you know, people to be able to give us some of their ideas,
observations, a giant virtual round table.
Yes.
Yes.
And in the meantime, we will get busy on bringing you the most clear, fresh, unread,
unstudied and neglected and uncared for and abused texts that will give you the picture
of antiquity.
I think it's emerging now.
I think it's emerging.
And this makes us just that much closer to answering the question of why we're all here.
The question is, why was Jesus arrested at 4 a.m. with a naked boy?
What is that all about?
I've got more pirates for you this season.
Lots of child trafficking for us to consider.
Lots more drug use.
Lots more drug use.
When I saw him, I got to tell you this, and you guys love this.
I know.
So I'm going to tell you when they were rubbing on the stuff that you put in there, when they
were doing that, I couldn't help but notice.
I couldn't help but notice that that person who was being initiated was in a medical environment.
Suddenly, things became medical.
Yeah.
Fluid's a little bit too close to a star there.
Watch out.
You're going to hit a supernova next time.
Where were we?
Hey, we were here with the drugs and the mystery.
I want for us to be able to perpetuate this thing that we've been doing when we open up
that scene and we see the reality.
So I'm going to keep bringing you these filthy dirty texts from antiquity.
I'm going to read you the real stuff.
A lot of it may make you a little bit queasy.
But that's what it's all about, getting into that murder scene.
That's what it's all about.
We're there with Jesus.
We're there with that naked kid that he was arrested with.
We're going down.
You a sater, Jesus?
You got that stuff on board that gives you the thirst?
Yeah.
I know.
You know what they were doing?
They do this.
They do this because they get itchy, twitchy.
Yeah.
Love it.
Fantastic.
I look forward to seeing you guys Wednesday and thank you for coming back tonight.
I truly appreciate it and I'm going to put a ton of work in this so that I can justify
taking up your precious time.
Thank you again and Hail Satan.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
