our future
how purple, look here, she'll work you
how purple, how purple, look here, she'll work you
how purple, how purple, how purple
making pale deuces, them pen and doom, it was herses all over but the cryin'
all that bullshit they was tryin'
at the gates of Babylon, money changers, flippin' tables, rearrangers
hot purple slangers, Medea she'll work you, it's a banger
smile away from the treeline, the man of rain
ridin' into the sunset, my Medea dragon venom
jewel in the lotus, amethyst serpent
the need for anti-venomous urgence, Athena work it
seashell purple, dielectric water flow
Castle Franco, Vampirella, Belisema
the dope is hot purple, Medea she'll work you
the circus an analima, to hefe ese de boss
heliocentric, come to the crow
Athena, run the sky, for the Mio Maz
try a little bit of death bubble kush
on a chairhead full of zombies, original sources
ionic omni, hot purple, Medea she'll work you
hot purple, hot purple, hot purple
Medea she'll work you, hot purple
Welcome back to Lady Babylon. I have something for you tonight.
We're going forward. We usually go in the past, tonight.
We're going in the future.
Look at how far into the future we came.
That was brilliant. What have I got for you? We're going
forward. We're going forward on this tiny eight
Mbps highway of the internet. We're going to go forward
with that little bit. We're going to squeeze out the future
and I'm going to bring it to you tonight. Exactly. Hail the
muse. Nice job. What we're going to do is I'm going to
shock you. I'm going to shock you. It's going to feel
funny and this is how the machinery works. We bounce
an echo off of history and it will reflect back
the outline of our future. It's a technique that people have
been using for the longest of time. Yes, fantastic.
Fantastic. Let's go right into it. Where are we going to
step off? Everybody get off the ship, right? We're only
going a little bit ahead, right? So tonight we're running
off the ship. We're going to have some quotes here for you.
Hit me with the first one, Chewie. Hit me with the first
one. Yeah, the ship is not reacting the same. Here we go.
Here we go. Watch this people under Constantine. Where have we
bounced our echo off? We've bounced it off the fourth
century, right? Here we go. And by the way, the devil has
authorized me to give this to you. I know that the spreading of
future is not looked lightly upon. Yeah, you can get
yourself in a lot of quantum courtroom business tinkering
with that, but I have been authorized to bring it to you.
So contract fulfilled. This is gorgeous. Where did we bounce?
Where do we bounce our sonar off? We bounced it off the fourth
century. We're about 320 Anno Domini. Get out and smell the
air. Are you ready? Constantine steps up. You know who he is?
He is the emperor who made Christianity the power of the
state. He's the one who did it. He embraced that 30% and he
rose to power. Isn't that fantastic? He used them. He
used them to maintain absolute control. And in doing so, he
made some laws. He made some laws. Here's one. Magicians and
sats who use their art against the minds of men are guilty and
shall be punished. However, to use the art for good, you know,
like good weather, that's okay. But you're messing with
people's minds. You're messing with their minds. Hmm. Okay.
Who's he talking about? You and me and everybody who is not a
monist, a follower of the Christ. That's who he's talking
about. He's talking about all of us. Here's another one.
Magicians and such. Give me the next one. Joey, sorry. I jumped
ahead. Boom. Constantine gives Christians the right to take
their cases before an ecclesiastical court rather than a
secular court. Okay. Did you feel the echo? Did you feel the
wave come back to you where you're sitting right now? You
see, get on your thrones. Get on your thrones. This is
exercising the throne of Satan. Are you ready? We bounce that
signal. It comes back to us and what do we get reflected? We
get a judicial system that is usurped by the monists. A
judicial system that is usurped. Their cases don't go to
secular courts. They go to religious courts and you know
how it is when you let those foxes police themselves. You
understand? Are you going to be surprised about what's how
it's going to turn society over as soon and you have to do
this with one person. You have to have a deified tyrant.
You must. How is that tyrant deified? That tyrant is deified
when God steps forward and crowns him by saying, hey, I'm
going to move this bullet a little bit. Just a little bit to
the side. You are fated to be the king. You're fated. We
love you. We love you Cyclops. We love you. We love your
power. This is the age that we're making wealth great
again. How are we going to do that? Because we're going to
make America wealthy because that is your core. That is your
core. Your greed stains your souls with a stench of ruin.
The only reason the devil gave me the authorization to reveal
to you the future is because it is our punishment.
Your greed stains your soul with a stench of ruin.
Make us wealthy again. Make us wealthy again. We love you. We
love you Lord. We love you. Hail Satan. We love you. Give me
the next one. Give me the next one. Make a we're going to
eat it tonight people. We're going to eat it. Now what?
People after Constantine. Now here's one. Constance just what
did he do? He declares a curse on those who perform the magic
arts and thereby jeopardize the lives of innocent persons.
Wait a minute. You mean the magic arts can jeopardize people's
lives and bamboozle their heads?
I think I'm beginning to see projectalos. Give me the next
one. Give me the next one. Boom. Right to the next
universe. Whoops. There we are. Here's a couple more
Constancias. Thank you. Anyone who consults the Seuss there on
account of curiosity of the future will suffer capital
punishment. Capital off with your heads. Now you're sitting
there and you're hearing these pings and you're feeling this
wave return of your future and you're saying oh my goodness
capital punishment. Capital punishment for witches bra.
Capital punishment for people who delve into areas they
shouldn't delve. Coming for you. It's coming for you.
Even a high ranking person convicted of wizardry
will face torture. Do you know why? Because the beast is
coming. The documents are obvious. The beast is coming.
You didn't realize you were being dragged toward apocalypse?
Who do you think is doing it? They're pumping their fists right in your face
right now and when they talk about Americans
they don't mean you and me. How? They mean themselves and all
those who worship the god man. Do you worship the god man? Do you love him?
Let me hear some love for the god man. Chewie throw me some love
in a minute with that fist. What is the fist of power
that is being raised? It's a symbol that is used throughout time
and it heralds violence. It does. It does. Give me the
give me the let's love. Let's love the lord and savior. Give it to me.
Thank you. Thank you very much.
Where is the passion? Have you ever loved a politician?
Have you ever loved a leader? Have you ever wept when that leader
that leader was blessed by the almighty? That leader is here only because the
bullet missed by an inch. Do you know what that is?
That is providence. That is the hand of god. Tell me.
Tell me what it is. I'm not supposed to be here tonight.
I'm not supposed to be here.
Thank you. I stand before you in this arena only by the
grace of almighty god.
In watching the reports over the last few days many people
say it was a providential moment probably was.
There is one amendment that can stop all of this because this
is not politics. This is church. This is state church with its own god.
Wow. Do you see the tears? I've never seen an audience shed so much
for a person who would take away their freedom.
That's what we deserve. Do you see the punishment? Keep your eyes open.
Watch as we punish ourselves. Watch. Do you feel that sickness in your stomach?
That's clockwork orange, baby. Give me one more. Give me one more of those
clips. Let's just hit it the last time.
I'm expecting and demanding the best leadership in the world. Leadership that is bold,
dynamic, relentless, and fearless. We can do that.
We are Americans. Ambition is our heritage. Greatness
is our birthright. But as long as our energies are spent fighting each other
our destiny will remain out of reach and that's not acceptable.
We must instead take that energy and use it to realize our country's true
potential and write our own thrilling chapter of
the American story. We can do it together. We will unite. We are going to come
together and success will bring us together.
you
you
you
you
you
Oh, was that not all? Hey, Chewie, you've got to stay away from the...
Anyway, I'm sorry about that, people. Tonight's show is horror. It's absolute
horror. But who are we talking about? We're talking
about black-robed gangs of people breaking onto estates, breaking onto temples.
Who are these people? Whether they're wearing black robes or red hats.
It's the same group. They want to write their own future.
They want something new and they've got a tyrant
who is going to enable them and all they've got to do is make the tyrant and by extension
themselves beyond justice, beyond justice. Look what he says here. He says,
But those black guard people who eat more than elephants and demand a large
quantity of liquor from the people who send them drink, but who hide their luxury.
They hide their luxury. These people, Emperor, even while your law is enforced,
they run to the temples, they bring with them the stuff to destroy it, right?
And what happens? The roofs are uncovered, the walls are pulled down,
images are carried off, altars overturn and the priests have to keep their mouth shut
or they can be killed or they can be killed.
It sounds like a radical restructuring of money and power. Yes, it is.
And you and I are not part of it. We are that which is being restructured.
What does Libanian Stalacy says? They therefore spread themselves over the country like torrents,
wasting the countries together with the temples for whenever or wherever they demolish the temple
of a country. At the same time, the country itself is blinded, declines and dies. For,
oh Emperor, the temples are the soul of the country. The temples are the soul of the country.
You see, your liberty came from the classical temple. And now what is being pulled down
around you is that classical temple and it is being replaced with a tyrant. It is being replaced
with a tyrant. Who is the giant? The giant and who are we as Athenians? Who are we as the founders
of democracy and the scientific method? We bring down giants, sick, simple, tyrannous. That's what
always happens to the tyrant. If you look at your future, isn't there potential? Isn't there glorious
potential? Who is that atop the capital? I think that is Athena, the one who lays low the tyrant.
Let's see if we can come up. Let's see if we can come up with any tech. It's so slow tonight,
people. I'm sorry. Chewie's like, right? Okay, that's okay. We'll deal with it because we've got
really good material. There she is. There is the Athena, right? Gorgeous. You thought that was a big
cross of Jesus Christ? Maybe Moses holding up his staff? No. On the capital? No. On our monuments? No.
It's Athena. Do you want to know what the religion of American democracy is?
It's the worship of Athena. It's polytheistic, and it knows. Our democracy knows the tyrant cannot
be allowed to take power. The tyrant cannot be allowed to take power. And when I say take power,
I mean it. They cannot stand outside of your voice. You, the people, they cannot stand outside of it.
If they do, you're swamped. That's it. Everybody join. Let's join. Get your red hats and go to church
and send your kids off to the school so they can learn about Adam and Eve, and they can watch their
other little classmates be taken out. Why did they take out Timmy? Oh, he's got to go to one of those
places for those types of people. Do you think this is the first time that this has ever happened
or will happen? You have created a tyrant who now has the blessing of God. God had to intervene.
Do you understand the minds of the people that you are living next to? Do you understand those
minds? God himself loves Donald Trump. He is a God king. The Cyclops is a God, he says. They just
don't know it. They just don't know what kind of God I am. Isn't it gorgeous? Let's see what else
from the past. Give me another source. Hopefully, oh, look, he started working again. Did you dump
some trash out the accelerator? Right? Hit those asteroids. Nor are they satisfied with this,
these roving Christians who are going to be doing this to you. They take land. They take estates.
They declare it sacred. They did this, people. Imagine, you have an estate that's been in your
family for 300 years and it's on Tuesday, they declared it sacred and you have to move out by
Friday so that the church can come in. You know those monists who want to make America wealthy
again? They want your wealth. Isn't that funny? You got to stand there. You got to stand there,
watch them take it. You got to watch them take it because they do. Now, I am warning you and in
the future, I'm going to remind you when you're telling me, oh my God, I thought you were just
being hyperbolic. I'm going to remind you that I told you. Are you ready? Let's see the future.
Are you ready? Watch this, people. Here it comes. Let's hit another ping. Oh, God, the ship is so
slow tonight. Here we go. I don't know if I can do a song and dance this long. Let's see if there's,
there we go. For no one is so audacious and so ignorant of the proceedings of the courts
as to thank himself more powerful than the law. Look at the argument that Libanius,
go ahead and change it now. Look at the argument that Libanius is having to present to the Christian
Emperor. He's having to present it to the Christian Emperor. Here, oh Emperor, I need freedom of
speak.
Here, I am again. Here, oh Emperor, I need freedom of speech. I need freedom of speech and a few more
NBPS, I think as well, but you guys love it. You know what I mean? It's kind of torturing. It's like
the Mastiks, by the way, Snappy and Deon are doing a show on the Mastiks, right? This is the
whip, right? So yeah, good stuff. Lots of good stuff coming out. There's all sorts of great stuff.
Anyway, what does he need? Go back to that one real quick. I want you to see, look,
you're going to get to a point in the future where you're going to have to argue your right
to a fair legal system, to a fair legal system. What they did in Rome is the Christians transferred
justice from the secular authorities who are polytheistic to themselves. They made their own
courts. As soon as you can overthrow Lady Justice, Athena is gone and your democracy is ruined.
That is what monism always gravitates toward. Fantastic. Now let's get the one, that one.
Boom. Fantastic. Look, we're getting better reception. That's fantastic. Tell me, good job flying,
Chewie. Tell me why this temple of fortune is safe. So Leibniz here starts to pull it out.
He's like, dude, why is the temple of fortune safe? Why Temple of Jupiter, Minerva, Bacchus?
It's because you would have them remain. No, but because no one has given you power over them,
which nevertheless you have assumed against those which you have destroyed. How then are you not
liable to punishment? Do you see what happens when you accept the love of a tyrant who promises
you wealth and prosperity? Do you see what happens? You create a box and all of the rest
of us who are outside the box lose everything. Praise Jesus Christ. Thank you, son of God.
Thank you. Thank you, Jesus Christ. Yeah, your little buttocks is red. You know why?
Oh, you know why Jesus? It's because you loved that man, Donald Trump, and you turned that bullet
just a little bit. And now the God is among us. The God is among us. Welcome your punishment.
Welcome. Now, if you are not looking directly into the mirror, if you aren't looking at it straight on,
you're deceiving yourself and you'll bring upon all of us the pain of the tyrant.
You're going to bring it on us all and we're going to watch. We're going to watch you do it.
We're going to watch you make America wealthy again.
Let's get the next one. Let's get the next one. I love this.
I love this. I tell you what, bring it on. Now, for my part, I envy the good fortune of any man
to whom the God has granted to inherit a body built of the seed of holy and inspired ancestors.
Are you people? Listen to this, dude. Are you people full of the seed of inspired ancestors?
Do you know what they thought in antiquity? Not everybody, right? You can't make any generalizations,
but you know what you can pull out of their cult tax? The concept that your ancestors are sitting
there right now watching you. Imagine this, America. Imagine Tom Jefferson is watching you right now.
It's a good thing that we have that seed within us. These are the treasures of wisdom.
That is not honest. It is not Christian. It is not Jewish. It is not Islamic.
It is polytheistic, a recognition that your ancestors are participating from a distance.
Isn't that nice? You can summon those people. You can bring up their writing and you can bring
them out and show people what was in their minds. Do you know the real origin of American democracy?
The real origin of American democracy is in Mother Greek. It's in the language.
You can go down. You don't have to believe any of the stories. That's not what classical philologists
do. Classical philologists just translate. But what is the benefit of that translation?
The benefit is you get to drink from that classical spring and it's delicious.
Tyrant after tyrant after tyrant. Show us what's going to happen to you. Take us to the future.
Are you ready? Two mankind. Athena gives the blessings of wisdom and intelligence and the
creative arts. Now, those of you who are out there who are saying to yourself, wait, is this
polytheism? It sounds so reasonable. Do you know what Athena is? She is that wisdom and
intelligence. Those creative arts. Do you love the creative arts? Do you love wisdom and intelligence?
Do you worship Athena? You better. You better because she sets up the justice system
and surely she dwells in the capitals of cities. Didn't you see she's in our capital? She dwells
there. The people who set this all up did not set it up on the basis of Christianity.
That is fake history. It is fake history that's being sold to you as propaganda and surely she
dwells in the capitals of cities because through her wisdom she has established the community
of the state. Go ahead. The community of the state. Do you know what your country is based on?
Your country is based on Athena and the worship of wisdom and the first words out there,
that first amendment says it all. You will not create a state religion. Nope. Not going to happen.
That is exactly what is being done through the power of the tyrant. A state sanctioned religion.
Yeah. It's cyclical people. It happens. It's a product of nature. It happens. What do we say?
I have still to say a few words about Aphrodite. Okay. What are the gods? Do we, those of us who
started democracy? What are the gods that we worship that help us to fight the tyrant?
I have still to say a few words about Aphrodite who as the wise men among the Phoenicians affirm
and as I believe assists Helios in the creative function. Wait a minute. Do you have a female
creator? Imagine that. Imagine that for a second. A female creator. Let that percolate through your
brain. She is in very truth a synthesis of the heavenly gods. What? And in their harmony,
she is the spirit of love and unity. Now the monists came out and they've said we are going to
unify. Yeah. You're going to unify yourselves and everybody else. You're going to kill or enslave.
That's the way it works. It's going to be fast too. Don't think tyrants don't work slowly.
They don't, they don't need, they don't need a Congress, right? The Congress just becomes a stamp.
That's how it works when you transition from some kind of a public constitutional democracy
to an imperial bureaucracy. That's how it works. And here we come. Here we come with tears in their
eyes. They're coming and you have to sit there and see it coming because that's our judgment.
Isn't that gorgeous? I told you we were in hell, people. I told you we were in hell, right? Who
rules this place? Who rules this place? Even the Christians. Come here, naughty, naughty,
naughty, naughty agnostics and people who are, what do they call those people? Atheists. Come here.
You just don't get it. You just don't get it.
Hit me with the next source. Hit me with the next source. I just want to see what's going to happen.
What's going to happen to me? And though, yeah, of that, that continuous birth, King Helios is the
primary creative cause, yet Aphrodite is the joint cause with him. She who enchants our souls
with her charm. Isn't that nice? Wouldn't you like to worship a divinity that was charming?
Or is that charm on Yahoo? Yahoo's got no charm. He's always killing people. He's always getting
people involved and genocide. He's got no perfume. He's got no charm. Who wants to be possessed by
that? That's the monist. I don't care if it's a tin from Akhenaten's time or if it's Jaisu.
I don't care. Those monists never have charm. And personally, I like charm. Charm is a good thing.
All of your classical art has charm. Watch what happens when the Byzantine art takes over.
The charm goes right out of the room. Haven't you wondered why that is on a quantum level?
Why is the charm just rushed out of the room? Why does the art go to garbage? You're seeing
those Byzantine sticks. Oh, God. Oh, God. They're dressed from here to their ankles. They look pale.
They look like somebody beat them up and they're waiting to die. A bunch of 12. Who are those
12 men waiting to die? Those are the apostles, right? Oh, God. Oh, God. Make America charming again.
Give me the next one. Give me the next one. Who else is in our bag, people, when we created
democracy? Who else was there with us? Hermes and Aries. Hermes and Aries are connected
with Helios, right? Because what are we worshiping? We're worshiping Saturnian religion. This is of the
sun, the moon, and the stars. This is the power of hackety. This is the fury of Dionysus.
And you've got to have the hermeneutics and you've got to have the war, that repulsive force.
Do you know what is great about being strong? You can honor Aries. You can honor the ability to push
away that which is causing you to fall, right? Okay. So this is all built in. It's baked into the
democracy. If you are a tyrant, you are everything that is opposed. And it doesn't matter if you
stand there and say, I am the defender of democracy. Do you know who says I'm the defender of democracy?
The tyrant, right? Everything out of the liar's mouth is bizarro world. You just turn it upside
down. When he says I am not a tyrant, he's saying I am a tyrant. When he's saying I am a defender
of democracy, he's saying I am not a defender of democracy. Yeah, yeah. When he says unity,
he means disunity. That's how the magic of the tyrant works, baby. I don't see you think they
get in power besides lying, right? Tyrants are marked by their tongue that has no truth.
It has no truth. And if you love, I'm going to say this to those of you who love the tyrant,
I'm going to say it because I have a lot of viewers who love the tyranny. And they say, well,
what about, don't be political. And what about Joe Biden? Joe Biden's an old coot who needs to
step aside or needs to be found incompetent and then step aside forcefully. It doesn't matter
who you're going to push. I'm talking to those of you who love tyranny, who look into the eyes
of Jesus Christ and see the bronze orange. Yeah, I want you to see it. Let's see it,
Chewie. Let's see it. Let's go. This is Project Talos, isn't it? Yeah, they needed a warm up here
where our tech was going south. Give me the next one. For he extends to them the faculty of judging,
guides them with justice and purifies them with brilliant light. You know what kind of gods the
founders of democracy worship? Those who protect by means of justice, justice, justice. As soon
as money entered the Supreme Court, we elevated a human being to the status of an untouchable
divinity. That is raw greed. It is raw greed. Do you know what the historians a hundred years
from now will say? They will say America was consumed by its own greed. They gave away everything
for their greed. Give me, give me, give me, give me. Do you want it? Do you want the prosperity?
You want the blessing? You want the eternal life? You do. You do, don't you? And that's why you're
here. You're here for the spanking and the misery. And unfortunately, it's pretty awful. It's pretty
awful what's coming. Give me the next one. Give me the next one. Let's see. Let's see. Oh, God.
For Plato himself, see what's happening? This dude, Libanius, he's quoting Plato now.
He didn't know where, I think this is cute. He says, for Plato himself says somewhere
that our race was by nature doomed to toil. And so the gods pitted us and gave us Dionysus
and the Muses. And we recognize that Helios is the common Lord since he is celebrated as the
father of Dionysus and the leader of the Muses. We are in Saturnian cult. Do you know what democracy
is? And I'm going to satisfy every Christian. It's going to click in the mind of every evangelical
out there. Every Christian who wears the red hat, which is the equivalent to saying swastika,
if you want my opinion, every person who has tried to make Deutschland uber alles,
I want you to see it's coming to us through the Muses, through Dionysus. We have our Saturnian,
our satanic gods. Those are the gods that gave us democracy. Jesus Christ didn't.
Jesus Christ did not give you democracy. Paul the apostle that junkie did not give you democracy.
All those kids that worked for Jesus, those runaways that you call apostles,
all of those kids that were prostituted when he was arrested in a public park with a naked kid,
saying I'm not a trafficker. All of that was not a part of democracy.
Let's give me another one. Give me the next one. They know it. They feel it. They know it's right.
Watch this. Watch this, people. Here's a glorious one. For the Romans themselves,
not only belong to the Greek race. Wait, what? What? I sit here and I tell you guys,
Greek is the great language that is the most successful and the most highly formed human
language out there period that we have. Period, by far, by far. What happens? I tell you all the
time, the Romans, they're always trying to, well, Latin has some positive things to it too. You
know why they're doing it? Because everybody knows as they watch Greek take over and as the
emperors begin to write in Greek, because why would you write in Latin? They just can't confer
what the Greek can confer, right? Okay. For the Romans themselves, not only belong to the Greek
race, but also the sacred ordinances and the pious belief in the gods, which they have established
and maintained are from beginning to end Greek coming from the language, not the people, right?
Not the ethnicities coming from the language. And we know people walk around and say,
Jews and Gentiles, do you know that didn't exist? What did people say? Greeks and barbarians,
those are the two. They classified people on their language. Wow, what a monstrously powerful,
gorgeous lady mother Greek is. And beside this, they have established a constitution,
not inferior to that of any one of the best governed states. Do you think the Christians
were talking about constitutions? No, no. That's not how theocracy works. That's not how monism works.
If indeed it be not superior to all others that have ever been put into practice, for which reason?
I myself recognize, says Libanians, that our city is Greek, both in descent and in its constitution.
Let me tell you this today. America is Greek in descent. It is Greek in its constitution.
The people who formed it were breathing the ether of that classical source. They were breathing its
ether. Oh, God. It was that fifth element thing. The vapors of it were so freeing.
We're so freeing. Give me the next one, Chewie. Give me the next one. Now, I'm going to put some Greek
up here since I've been not putting up a lot of Greek tonight. Look what we're doing. Here's the
hymn to Helios. Here's the hymn to Helios. And I just want you to say, you know, in the beginning,
he's saying, hey, Calliope muse, you know, tell me, daughter of Zeus, tell me about Helios.
Him, right? Him, that guy, right? Who is born from so and so and so and so. And he talks about the
genealogy of Gaia and Uranus. And he talks about Hyperion as his father, right? The autocasignatene.
Who is who is Yuri Faisa, that glorious shining one who is the mother of Helios? Who is she?
Who is she? She is the cousin, the relation of Helios. Why is this? Because this is Saturnian
physics. It's Saturnian physics. Who did they produce? They produce the dawn.
All right. They produce the dawn. Are we dawn bringers in the Saturnian tradition?
Very much literally. And this Saturnian tradition, you can be proud. You can be proud as Americans
that your democracy came from this dawn bringer, came from this tradition. Oh, God,
give me the next one. Give me the next one. Now that the human race possesses its knowledge of
God by nature. Okay, where are we going back to? We're going back to Julian. We're going back to
Libanus. We're going back to the Pagans. We're going back to the Pagans who are being persecuted by
the red hatwares of their day, right? Who already have their emperor chosen and created. Oh, and he
was there. He's put there by God. Look how God blessed him. Oh, the tears in my eyes, right?
These are the people. And what is that generation of Pagans have to say to them?
Now that the race, the human race possesses its knowledge of God by nature and not from teaching
is proved to us, first of all, by the universal yearning for the divine that is in all people,
whether private or communities. What does the Pagan say in response to the monism? Your faith
is everything to you, says the Pagan, to the monist. Your faith is everything. But you know what?
Faith is something handed down from person to person. We go to the source. We go to nature.
We follow reason and nature via reason always brings us to that beautiful, beautiful lady.
Always brings us to her. She who creates. I got here by her. Didn't you? Didn't you get here?
I got here. Were you copulated into existence? I was. I was. There was a time when my
mother and my father, you know, put on some music, right? And there was something going on between
them. There's some kind of chemistry, some kind of power. Do you know who Athena protects? She protects
our ability to enter into that relationship. She gives us a safe haven where Aphrodite can be worshiped.
You say Athena leads the Aphrodite? Yes, she does. Check out the early kings of Athens and what she
does to them. Oh, God. Oh, I can't stand the beauty of this. It's overwhelming. It's totally
overwhelming. People out there. Wonderful. We're almost, let's get to this one. Look, we haven't
even gotten a talos yet. Shall I now go on to tell you how Helios took thought for the health and
safety of all men by getting asclepius to be the savior of the whole world. You know what happens?
God gave us his son to be the savior, the great physician. What have we made as Americans in
2024? We have made a savior. We have made a savior and the Christians will say, no, no. He is not
the savior. Jesus Christ is the savior. If you cannot see a person's love for their savior,
I'm sorry, but the love is there. You have your savior and his name is Donald Trump. Give me the
next one. Give me the next one. Tyranny. Tyranny of tyranny. Moreover, the founder of our city for
not only does Zeus, who's glorified as the father of all things, inhabit its citadel together with
Athena and Aphrodite, but Apollo also dwells on the Palatine hill right in Rome. Who are the Romans
worshiping? Who is the lady of the seven hills and who is being worshiped? The leader of the muse.
The leader of the muse. Apollo himself right on the Palatine hill. Why? Because we want the vision
of the future. We want to know and give it to us. He's about to give it to us. What is that vision
for the Romans? What was that vision of the future? Boom, boom, boom. Next one. Boom.
Those in the closed conjunction of Helios and Selene who share the empire of the, over the
visible world, even as it had caused his soul to descend to earth and like manner changed to mount
upwards. We're talking about resurrection, incarnation, the mortal body, part of his body.
So clearly did she who creates earthly matter, she's whose place is at the furthest point below
the sun. She received queerness when he was sent down to earth by Athena, goddess of forethought.
How do the Romans bring this future telling capacity to everyone? That's in the next one.
How do they do it? Are you ready for this? Do you want me to talk yet about another proof?
I mean the work of King Numa. Are you ready? Are you ready? Here it is. Here is what protected
Rome from Christianity. Here's what protected. And these people who he's about to talk about,
these people were the first targets of the Christians. Are you ready? I mean the work of
Numa. In Rome, maiden priestesses guard the undying flame of Helios at different hours in turn.
They guard the fire that is produced on earth by the agency of the God. They prevent the rise
of tyrants. If you do not have these maiden priestesses of the flame in some sort or some way,
you will lose your power to the tyrant. The tyrant will take everything. Oh and he is so ready.
He is so ready to execute his righteous godly justice. He is so ready to bring to you the
apocalypse that all of us with red hats are so crazy for. And the rest of us who don't wear red
hats but do go to church, we want it too. We want it too. How about those of us with red hats who
were sitting in Congress? We want it too. It's lovely. It's lovely, isn't it? Don't you think the
devil is brilliant? Look at him. He's sitting. He's sitting there. You can just imagine his big
desk that he's got there. You know he has his meetings at. He puts his feet up. He's got his
hooves out. And he's like, well what do you think? What do you think? It's worked pretty tight,
wound up pretty good, isn't it? And all you got to do is make them miserable by showing them
the future. I was like, oh god, you are the man. You are the man, devil. You are the man.
You are the sternian king. It's gorgeous. Give me the next one. Give me the next one. I want to
bring you a little Greek. And what this says here is Libanians is talking about a friend that he went
to school with. And this friend had an uncle. Now again, here's the echo. The echo that shows us
the immediate future. He's got this friend who's going to school, right? And his, this friend's
family's estate has been removed. It's been confiscated by one of these religious laws,
right? Because, you know, he's been in the family for a long time, etc., etc. Now he says this guy
has an uncle who practices a closeness, a communion with the gods more than he does with people,
even though he knows the law expressly forbids it under punishment of death,
under punishment of death. If you don't want to worship Jesus Christ,
if you don't want to worship Jesus Christ, if you don't want to worship Yahu, if you don't want to
worship any of the monist atrocities that they call divinity, if you don't want that, I suggest
you pay attention to what is immediately in front of you, immediately. And you will sit there and
say, no, no, like the Germans did. I had a German TA. I had a German TA in high school, in this great
school that I went to. It was originally called Special Projects. I had a great German TA. And I
asked her once, because she was old, and she's long gone by now. And I asked her, I said, you know,
what was it with the common ordinary person, not the national socialist, but just common German?
What was it about the tyrant? And she said, you know what, we went to his rallies. We went to his
rallies. And we liked him. He was very optimistic. He was all about unity and restoring the greatness
of Germany. How many years later am I now standing in that crowd of people? I know people in this
crowd, as everybody does. I know worshipers of the tyrant. I know them. There's a lot of them in a
state that calls itself, this is sealed by Sixth Semper Tehranus. Yeah, they're all over the place.
And guess what? They're bringing you this past. They're bringing you this past. Give me the next
one. You're not going to be able to, you're not going to be able to have your reasoning when you're
handed a Bible and told this is the American, this is the document. This is what they'll do.
This is the document upon which America was founded. Where are my guns? Right? That's what they'll do.
Be waiting. Be waiting for it. I watched the crowd. I watched the crowd in, what was that,
Chewie Vienna? I watched the crowd. Now we have a tape, but I can't play it because somebody will
strike. Somebody will complain and I'll get a strike of some sort. Don't Chewie, don't play it.
But I saw a concert in Vienna. I think it was Vienna where Emma Koch
sang and everybody in the audience, old and young men, women burst into tears,
burst into tears. It was like you were watching divinity manifest itself in purpose and life
and beauty and people were smiling and crying. What is the audience of the tyrant doing?
They're raising you a fist. They're raising you a fist. You are about to feel the force
of the tyrant in classical antiquity. They said that tyrant is the one who commits
hubris. Hubris. Hubris. Do you see your hubris? Can you look into that mirror and see your hubris?
You brits that are sitting there, by the way, and you Canadians, you Australians. Yeah?
What do you think? You like to watch America rule the world. You like to watch us police.
You like to watch us hold up an example of what is freedom. What is right? What is beauty?
You look to us to do that. You passed us the torch. Now what are we going to do with it, America?
Not only are you dead ancestors watching, but the rest of the world is. The attention is on you.
So you're going to have to choose. Are you going to worship the tyrant? Are you going to love the
orange Hitler? Or are you going to stand for what everybody in our family stood for when they fought,
when they fought for this country? Yeah, yeah. Okay, let's do it. Let's bring back the honor
to those dead soldiers, right? That son of the general who the tyrant told these people who die
are suckers, right? Let's honor them and their memory. And by the way, if you are one of those
people who walks around and salutes and swears to defend the Constitution and you support a person
who stood on graves and said, these are suckers. Well, let me ask you this. Who's the sucker?
Who's the real sucker? You're in hell looking into a mirror of yourself and you are dishonorable.
You are dishonorable. We here at Satanic Initiation, we at Initiating Apocalypse, we at the
Satanic Congregation, do you know who we support? We support those who sacrifice,
those who sacrifice for those they love. We support them. We support them. We don't support
those who take power. We support those who lay it down, who lay down their own blood.
Yeah. To my family that was killed in the 1880s, 70s and 80s, to my family that was killed from
the generation that fought on the beaches in Europe, we owe them. We owe them better. Give
me the next one. Give me the next one. Such shame. Such shame. What does our tradition say? Look,
tell me, Muse. Tell me who can do this all better. Tell me about that colky and girl. Tell me about
her. Who is she? She's the one who created the Christ. Give me the next one. She is the origin
of your honest mysteries. Your honest mysteries have a polytheistic origin. Are you ready for
this? They have their own tyrant and his name is Talos Jalqueos. Jalqueos means the bronze one.
This is Talos the bronze. Who is Talos the bronze?
I think you know him already. Give me the next one. Give me the next one. There's this guy Talos
and what does he do? He goes around Crete. He goes around Crete and he protects it and Jason
and his Greek buddies are in a ship and they have just abducted the queen, the princess,
the founder of the Magi after whom the Medes changed their name from Arian to Mede.
She is on the ship and they know that there's this dude, this guardian of bronze. He's a son of God.
He has been clarified. He has been shown to us to be of that generation,
to be of that greatness. He not only makes Crete great again, he is great.
And what does he do? What does this guy do? Give me that. I'm sorry. Oh, there. Yeah.
Look, he's waiting on the beach. He's waiting on the beach. What is he doing there? He's trying to
stop you from accessing the sand. He's trying to keep you off. It belongs to him. Everything
belongs to him. And what is he? He is the last remaining.
Hemithaile, you see one of those people who was hemithaotic, who was part God,
a very child of God, a descendant. When they talk about the sons of God and Greek,
they're talking about these giants, these giants. And who is he? He's the last one left, Talos.
And what happens? What happens? The Greeks are scared. The Greeks are scared right now.
God, what's he going to do? This half God thing. Look at this half God thing. Oh, man,
demigods, right? Demigod Trump. What about the giant? What about the giant? Three times
he goes around every day. He goes around Crete. This bronze menace. Give it to me. He's got his
rallies all over the place. Remember what she said? Oh, we love the rallies. We loved Hitler's
rallies. They were so inspiring. Excuse me. You know, and then what did you think after
you started hearing about what's happening in your population and people getting taken away?
Excuse me. Shame, eternal shame on those who support and prop up the tyrants.
Eternal shame. Give me the next one. Give me the next one. Who is the man with the bronze feet?
Right? Talos is the man with the bronze feet. And you say to yourself, wait a minute. Does that
mean anything? Well, here it is again in Revelation. Who has the bronze feet in Revelation? Who is the
son of God? Who is that Halkolibanoi? Right? Who is that one who has those bronze feet? He's the one
whose voice is the voice of many waters. Give me the next one. That is Jesus Christ. Do you see
what mystery we're in? Do you see what language we're using? To the angel of the church of Thyatira.
Write these things. The son of God speaks and he says the one who has the eyes.
Right? The one who has the eyes. Who is this one who speaks? He's the one who has the eyes.
What are his eyes like? They're like the flocks of food. They're like that flame.
They're like that brilliance of fire and his feet are the ones that are made of bronze. Do you know
whose feet are made of bronze? The tyrant with the flame in his eyes, the giant, the son of God,
the one who God reached into the life, the life of the whole planet and altered it just to save
his son. Just to save his son. An inch. Moving an inch. And all of a sudden, your stupid businessmen
whose greedy and lies all the time becomes a God in the eyes of the red hat wearing lovers of the
orange. Yeah, he becomes their God. Do you know what's more un-American? Give him some images,
Chewie. Give him some images. Do you know what's more un-American than the love of the tyrant?
Nothing. Nothing. If you follow a tyrant, you do not follow our ancestors. Where do you think
you're going to end up? Where do you think your soul is going to end up up here in this great
cosmos when all the shades are mixed together? What do you think? You think it's going to end up
with the people that hated tyrants? You think it's going to end up with Henry? Patrick Henry? I
don't think it's going to. I don't think it's going to. No. As a matter of fact, I think you're
going to end up with some people who were talking about making Germany great again. I think that's
what you're going to end up with. Turns out there's a lot. There's a lot who support the tyrant. You
ask yourself, why is it that the Nazis are always drawn? It has nothing to do with ideology. It has
everything to do with greed that stains your souls with the stench of ruin. And this existence
is your purification. We are going to show you exactly who you are, and we are going to make it
painful. When you look into that mirror and see yourself, you're going to be really,
really confused. But don't worry about that point. It'll be over. It'll be over. Your apocalypse is
coming. Oh, God. Did he use that properly? Your apocalypse is coming. Devil told me,
give me that one. Give me the next one. Quick. Hurry. We've got to get through these. We've
got to get through these. There's just a couple more. There's just a couple more people I wanted
to pull in, the Septuagint or the Bible, Old Testament, whatever you want to call it, because
we've got these bronze feet, and we're really talking about literature that's all coming from the
same time. This is second century, first century BC, and then first century AD, early second century.
Same. That's the period we're talking about, that this literature is coming from. What does he say?
Hmm. Hmm. Somebody's having visions. Who is it? It's Daniel, right? And he's having visions,
but his buddies aren't having the visions. They aren't having the visions. They're just running
around scared. They're just running around scared. What? What's going on? Right? What are we seeing?
We're seeing that lightning. We're seeing that brightness of the flame. Right? And our parts,
what are our parts? Our parts are that bronze. Who are we talking about? We're talking about a
God. We're talking about bronze feet, and we're talking about the fulfillment of prophecy,
because that is the ticket of the honest, prophetic fulfillment. You mean all of this is about
bringing in the apocalypse and killing everybody else? Yep. Yep. You got it. You thought it was
about America? You thought it was about democracy in the West? No. It's not. It's about the fulfillment
of prophecy. Give me the next one. Hmm. Here's the logical follow-up. And I, Daniel, saw. I alone
saw this vision, this optacion. Right? What is it? What is it? No. The guy's next to me, right? The
guy's with me, he says. They didn't see it, but I saw it. They were just sitting there high.
That's what it says. Ecstasis. Give me the next one. Ecstasis. This is what they're in.
They're in ecstasis. Wait a minute. Your prophets were on drugs? Yes. The beast that bears up Lady
Babylon is a theriac. Christing is the activity of applying drugs.
Ecstasy. That's what it says on the screen. Ecstasis. Right. Thank you for saying, by the way,
all 756 of you. Thank you for staying while we fly by the disturbances. Ecstasis. Do you know what
the prophets are in? Do you know what Daniel is in? He is in ecstasy. This unique boy who had his
testicles cut off. He's in ecstasy.
He's in ecstasy. Give me the next one. What do I want to tell you? I just want to tell you this
bronze stuff. This stuff is unbreakable. This stuff is unbreakable. The feet of the tyrant that
you have raised up to the status of divine. They are unbreakable. Now, as Greeks, we're really afraid.
But thankfully, Medea stepped forward. In the middle of all of this, Medea stepped forward and
she said, you know what? Listen to me. I'm the only one. I know I'm the only one who can take this guy
down. Whoever he is, even if his flesh is all bronze, not just his feet, but is all of his flesh
is bronze. Yeah. The only thing that I can't take down is that which is Ionic. She says that.
Right. Okay. So this is something different. This is a bit of magic. So the Greeks look at her and
what do they do? The next one, they row out. They row out away from Crete to get as far away from
his casting of stones that they can get because he's going around ripping the stones out, throwing
them at them, right? He's got that fist held up, right? These stones, they're coming and the Greeks
row out there and they're like, hey, they're looking for what's she going to do? Give me the
next one. What's she going to do? She's going, watch this, people. What does she do? How do
you defeat? How do you defeat from a distance a bronze giant when you're on a ship? What does
she do? She takes the folds in her peplos, her purple peplos and she pulls them over her cheeks
on both sides and she goes up to the deck. Next one. And then what does she do when she gets the
debt? Are you ready? I'm about to show you the death from a distance. It's not what you think.
It's not what you think it is. What does the tyrant do? What does the tyrant do? He'll end up
killing himself. Happens every time. Happens every... You mean suicide? No. He will push the train
towards his own demise. He'll push it, right? He'll push it to that bunker in Berlin. He'll
push it to there or wherever they were. Where's that place? I don't know. And what does she do?
What does Medea do? She steps up on the deck and she starts mollifying the K-race. She starts
singing. And who does she start singing about? The K-race who devour your chest, who devour your
heart, who devour your mind. What does she pray to? She prays to the dogs, those dogs of Hades
who are swift. And where do these dogs of Hades come from? They're in the air around you. They're
in the air. Go ahead. They descend upon you at her command. They descend upon you. What do they
bring? They bring Eumenia. You want to be a tyrant? You want to be a tyrant? The cure to the tyrant is
not stepping in front of them. The cure to the tyrant is accelerating them to bring their own
doom. And in the process, everybody else gets punished. Isn't that nice? Isn't that nice? You
purify the whole people by stuffing their face in their own stupid reality. Give me the next one.
Tell me not to talk about politics. What kind of person would do that? What kind of person would
do that? Yeah, that's the next one. Boom. And what else does she do? She gets down on her knees,
right? And three times she calls out in songs and in prayers. Three times she calls out. Now watch
what she does. She's feminine. She makes her mind cacn. And with this hatred in her eyes,
she does something. She transfers it to the bronze tyrant. She takes his vision and she gives him
the fury. And what is it that she's actually doing? Here's the verb. Here's the Greek verb. Give me
the next one. Here's the Greek verb that she's actually doing to the...
All right. All right. Look at you. Your people are so patient. Thank you for waiting. We only
lost about 10 there. They were like, oh, this guy's setup sucks. Right? It's the information's super
slow highway. Yeah, look, oh, we lost some more. They're leaving. They're like, this guy's an idiot.
Give me the next one quick before we lose anybody. What does she do? What does she do to him? She...
Are you ready? You're going to get this now. This is Project Talos. You'll get it. This is
what she's going to do. She's going to grudge the tyrant. Okay. I want you to think about this. This
is one of those advanced Greek concepts. You know how you send the mania to the tyrant to
accelerate his doom. You grudge him or you begrudge him his power. Power should only be held by those
who are just. The universe is out of order when the unjust or those who have usurped justice
are now in control. So Medea begrudges him that power. Do you see what happens? What she is doing
mentally with the image? Give me the next one. What she's doing mentally with the image?
She is begrudging him and what happens? She throws at him her holon. Her holon. She makes
fantasies that will correspond to the maddening serpent venom. Fantasies for your mind. Do you
know what tyrants do when they are anointed by God? They become paranoid. They all become paranoid
because it's not right for them to have power. And in the middle of their souls, they know
the lies are all lies. And I have usurped justice to be here.
They know that instinctively. Nature puts that within them. And do you know what that does to the
human mind? To know that you have taken power and you are illegitimate? To know that you have cast
aside justice? It makes you afraid because there's always another attempt coming. Tyrants are never,
never safe. They're never safe. What happens to the mind under these circumstances? Well,
let me tell you what happened to Talos. He got really pissed off. He got really pissed off while
Medea is doing this. He is getting really pissed off. And he kills himself. Yeah, he brushes up
against a sharp rock and cuts open a vein in his leg. And he bleeds himself out. All his holy
icker comes out. Now, that is the fate of the tyrant. It will happen exactly that way. Exactly
as the paradigm of the mystery demands that it takes place exactly in the same way.
It's physics, people. It's physics. Now, if we just know, if we just know those songs,
we can come to the aid of America. Give me the next one. Give me the next one. I want you to see
what do they attribute this power to? Are you ready? Anybody who's into politics and say,
where is this going to come from? What is this going to be some kind of movement? No,
it's going to be by the brime. By the brime of much drug using Medea. What is brime? What is
brime? What's the secret ingredient that she's got that we all need to take down the Talos? Strength,
might, bellowing, roaring. You can remember their farmers, right? Farmers and herders and stuff,
right? So, okay, but look at number three. Gunakia aretopoia. What is that? It's feminine
something. Gunakia means feminine. What is aretopoia? It means literally. It means literally to make
something that's not speakable. Something that we can't speak about. What is her power?
What is her brime? Are you ready? Here it comes. You thought we were far from the Bible,
but we're not. This is where the people who made the Bible took their information from.
What is aretopoia to practice unmentionable vice? Unmentionable vice. Thank you, historian of
Victorian England. Practice unmentionable vice. Can we be a little more specific?
What is that? Filthy lewdness. Lady filthy lewdness is the power that will kill the tyrant.
Lady filthy lewdness. I'm going to leave that to settle on your brain. Give me the next one.
Lady filthy lewdness. What are these things? What is that aretopoia? It's really that which
cannot be spoken or expressed. But I want you to look at the very bottom line. What can you talk
about as something that's aretos? You can talk about the Eucharist. You mean the Eucharist?
Did you think that we had left the mystery religions of Judaism and Christianity? No.
No, we didn't leave those. We're squarely in their world. And this is why John or whoever wrote the
Apocalypse, who clipped out all of those sibling oracles and then put them into orders that they
weren't supposed to go in and shaved it here and tucked it here, right? Whoever did that and came
up with the Apocalypse that they call the Apocalypse of John, they understood that this is how the
mystery works. To them, the seals were not what you consider seals. They were drugs. We've seen
that. We're we're drugging people. We're giving them visions and we're controlling them, right?
Give me the next one. Give me the next one. And we're doing it as Christians. What do, what do
they do after the tyrant falls and everybody's like, yay, right? And all the supporters of
the tyrant are like, oh, right? What happens? We set up a holy shrine. Are you ready? This is
going to blow, for those of you who do a little bit of the history and a bit of the literature,
this is going to blow you away. We set up a shrine to Athena the Minoan. That's what it says.
Athena the Minoan. Do you know where Medea ends up at the end of the Argonautica? She ends up at
Thera, prophesying in the skin of Athena the Minoan. Yeah. Oh, God, gorgeous, gorgeous. Give me
the next one. This is our last one. Remember, she's the cure. She's the cure to Talos. She's the only
one that can cure the problem. I wanted to bring this last passage to show you a couple of words.
I want you to go to the first word on the second line, Bab Tusa. I want you to notice that it says
baptize. I want you to go two words in on that second line to the third word, kukkeonos. I want
you to notice the kukkein is there. You mean the formula that they're using in the Ellicinian mystery?
They're using it here? Yes, it's a component. It is a compound itself, but it's a component of
other formula. And Medea is using it. And what is she using it as? Pharmakha, as those drugs.
Those drugs. And where is she putting it? Kata of Thalon on the third line, into the eyes. She means
she is Christing. Yep, she is the first Christ. And she, in Christing, is entering herself into a
state where she can drive you mad. It's therapeutic, people. It's therapeutic to watch yourself on the
stage of life, to watch your own tyranny. Your religion is not what you think it is. Your God
is not who you think he is. And you are not who you think you are. Thank you for coming tonight.
And thank you for putting up with all of the interruptions. We still made it through. I want
to say thank you to Teddy Bass, because his latest album is gorgeous. And I want to thank him for
that. And I want to thank Chewy for putting a lot into making videos. These videos are meant
to control your brain. Thank you for coming tonight. Hail Satan.
Avalon, Avalon. Lady Medea. Lapis lazuli lines the walls. The news sings with me.
Extra illumination for the vibration. I have under me the knowledge of our Genesis.
Crystal towers. The Punisher Frank Castle. Purple rain for the news I sing her favorite song.
All night long. No stems, no seeds. That you don't need. Got a bag of goodies. Ice creamy cream.
Hail Satan. Closed minds forever. Coming through in waves.
Towerhouse on the hill. House of Frankenstein. Darkness through dreams. I dream of Genie.
I purple. The deacher work you. I purple. I purple. I purple. The deacher work you. I purple. I purple.
How purple, how did you work you?
How purple, how purple, how purple
How did you work you?
How purple, how purple, how purple
How did you work you?
How purple, how purple, how purple baby
How did you work you?
