Ουρανία Σκούσα Με Δεύα
Με Δεύα Με Δεύα Με Δεύα Με Δεύα Με Δεύα Με Δεύα Με Δεύα Με Δεύα Με Δεύα Με Δεύα Με Δεύα Με Δεύα Με Δεύα Με Δεύα Με Δεύα Με Δεύα Με Δεύα Με Δεύα Με Δεύα Με Δεύα Με Δεύα Με Δεύα Με Δεύα Με Δεύα Με Δεύα Με Δεύα Με Δεύα Με Δεύα Με Δεύα Με Δεύα Με Δεύα Με Δεύα Με Δεύα Με Δεύα Με Δεύα Με Δεύα Με Δεύα Μ
Δεύα Με Δεύα Με Δεύα Με Δεύα Με Δεύα Με Δεύα Με Δεύα Με Δεύα Με Δεύα Με Δεύα Με Δεύα Μα Δεύα Με Δεύα Με Δεύα Με Δεύα Με Δεύα Με Δεύα Με Δεύα Με Δεύα Με Δεύα Με Δεύα Με Δεύα Με Δεύα Με Δεύα Με Δεύα Με Δεύα Με Δεύα Με One democrat smsiova pratique smsiova
On a trail head full of zombie original source is ironic
Βέλ researcher
Welcome back to the lady Babylon.
This is Initiating Apocalypse.
και έχω κάτι καθόλου σαν μένα.
Έχω κάτι καθόλου σαν μένα.
Τώρα, αυτά είναι καθόλου σαν μένα για εμείς.
Και αυτά είναι πράγματα.
Έχω δεύτερο χρόνο,
στις που δεν είχαμε τίποτα κάτι που έφαγαν.
Έχω δεύτερο.
Έχω δεύτερο.
Έχουμε χρόνο με τον Ιησού,
στον πόνο,
πάνω πάνω πανωσά,
και το φαίναμε να με γράψουμε.
Πήγαμε στον πόνο,
όπου υπάρχουν παιδίες,
και κάποιοι πιτήρισαν.
Παράγματα έφαγαν να γράψουν.
Και εμείς έρευναμε.
Εμείς έρευναμε.
Σνινέχουμε κάτι καθόλου σαν μένα.
Πιστεύω, δεύτερο χρόνο με τον Ιησού.
Έχουμε δεύτερο χρόνο με τον Ιησού,
και ξέρω ότι εσύ χρειαζόμαστε κάτι καθόλου.
Είτε πραγματικά.
Είτε χρειαζόμαστε κάτι καθόλου.
Αυτό είναι το προσπαθό μου,
να σας πρέπει να εξεχθεί με όλα τα αυτοκρατικά μου.
Ελπίζω να σας βρήσετε στον Ιησού.
Ευχαριστώ να σας πρέπει να σας εξεχθεί.
Εμείς θα έχουμε αυτοκρατική αυτοκρατική,
σε κάποιες μετατές.
Και όταν κάνουμε,
θα μας σημαίνει με ένα κομπλο βρήμα,
και θα μπορούσε αυτό να βινάμε,
και θα δούσε εσείς το οποίο έρχεται από ένα με paper,</p><p><p><p><p><p><p><p><p><p><p><p><p><p><p><p><p><p><p><p><p><p><p><p><p><p бег brauteurorted Kakunos Morocbin".
ίχε πίσω σε έναaken port,
κις αυτό που πέτοχinally θα της πεί calm,
θα λ singerpanτακούς σήσια,
και θα α стать έυξος μουbike εργάτος.
Ατείζω το θέμα αυτό.
Φ моиBR
για την κλωσία της Βρανζαίας.
Θα ήθελα να δώσεις σε αυτήν τη στιγμή,
τη στιγμή και την ιστορία,
από την οποία αυτή η κομμάτι
υπήρξε.
Ναι,
τη στιγμή είναι κλίταμναστρα,
και οι Ελληνικές μιλούν
για την ατομολογία της της στιγμής.
Κι κάποιοι,
είπαν,
Oh, είναι από Μεδο,
η στιγμή που βρίσκουμε
στην Μεδο,
ή στην Μαδία.
Λοιπόν,
είμαστε στους,
σε αυτό το κόσμο,
όπου αυτή η άνθρωπο
είναι σκέψη στιγμή.
Θα ήθελα να δώσεις σε αυτήν τη στιγμή.
Θα ήθελα να δώσεις σε αυτήν τη στιγμή.
Και τότε,
όταν έχεις δώσει αυτήν τη στιγμή,
θα πω τον Ιησού,
να πω τον Ιησού,
την Πίεδρυση της πίεδρου,
uri γίνος Τ αυτό,
저도 θα πιθεί Διασ saitλή.
Θα πιθεί σε περιεχ CAWG,
πουήине.
Θω πιθυνήσεις Kampf,
workflowsθ λεπτά,
υπο'sτι και δεχνί thứ.
Εδω άνθρωπος,
σπιλή they're not trajectors.
Και παρερφε activated.
Τώρα,illarό.
Ναι!
They call her the dragon queen, they call her the dragon queen, and she, she is the sister of Helen, she's the sister of a couple of gods, castor and Pollux.
She's the murderer of the king.
Now, what happens in the short? He comes back from the war. His name's Agamemnon, he comes back from the war.
And guess, guess who he steps up with? Cassandra. Cassandra, who's she? She's the Bacchic priestess who ran Troy.
All of her oracles come true. She's cursed though. Nobody ever listens to her. So she can spout this stuff all the time.
Agamemnon comes back and outsteps Cassandra and she tells him, you big dummy, you brought me here, I'm going to get killed and you're going to get killed.
And why does she say that? Because it's Clytemnestra we're talking about, the dragon queen.
Do you know what? I'm going to show you what she does here in a minute with a classical text.
But do you know what her family is known for? Her sister Helen now, for the Satanic congregation, I want to say this is for you.
People don't go around talking about this kind of stuff. But the Greeks, if you dig deep enough, somebody, right?
Oh my God. Well, they talk about what Helen actually did. Helen was Medea and she went to Egypt and she cast her image to Troy.
And why Achilles? Come here Achilles. People don't know this. People don't know this. I'm going to show you some Greek in a second. Just wait.
Achilles, come here. You know why he gets a spanking? Because he ends up in Lusus.
In the fields, the Elysian fields, he ends up there as the groom of Medea. What happened to him?
What happened to him? Let's watch the magic of the Christing that they're entering.
Now, Kleidemnestra, remember, what does she do? What if we pull playback, the film? What does she do? It's all digital? What? Run it back.
Oh, look, Agamemnon steps in. He's getting a bath. Totally oblivious. She wraps him up in a rug. Really fine. Really fine rug.
And then she buries an ax in his brain. Now, remember, who are we talking about? We're talking about Bronze Age women.
Women like the Scythians who are spreading the burning purple, who are creating the Medusa.
Those women who have to kill three men before they can mate, they're running things.
They're running things. You should have seen the Spinks, man. We have to give her virgins.
Sorry, son. Oh, stop crying. You may have fun.
Her wrapping him up and cutting his brain, splitting his head open, that's not necessarily surprising.
Now, we're talking about Bronze Age women.
We're talking about Bronze Age women.
We're talking about Bronze Age women.
We're talking about Bronze Age women.
The people executing that. This is their history.
Now, I'm going to show you what she does. Does anybody want to see what the She-Christ does?
Does anybody want to see what Clytemnestra does?
I'm going to have a couple of women for you tonight and some things that they do.
I want you to notice the overlap. When you find that criss-cross, that radiation is the history coming through.
It's the anthropology coming through the language. Who doesn't want that?
Who doesn't want Mother Greek to caress them? Who doesn't want that?
You know what, those Spartans?
We Athenians, look, there's two things. I forgot to tell you guys this last time.
There's two things that we've learned so far. When you and I go into the past and we're looking at these people, you need to remember two things.
Number one, we don't bend the knee to the tyrant. We don't. You don't get down and worship something human. Don't do that.
Number two, we Athenians know that the word for buttocks, that were proctology from it.
We know that that's because of the Spartans who speak terrible Greek.
It's a reference to them engaging with the Canaitis because they developed that stuff down there.
Remember Jesus, the mountain, the Canaitis? That's a part. That's why we call it a proctos.
Can you feel the actual history of that? Why did nobody? Why did I have to find that on my own?
Why didn't somebody in a classroom somewhere at some time say, oh, and by the way, there's a Spartan history to this word, anus?
Yeah, yeah, fantastic. Fantastic. It's gorgeous, right? What did they figure out? Just one second to the Spartans in the group because I know you're out there.
I know some of you are descendants of Spartans. Tom was. Let me give a shout out to the Spartans for the fact that they were uncompromisingly worshippers of the gods.
Yes, fantastic. Your army of lovers. That was genius. You had to have some brains. The Athenians can't be totally right.
You had to have some brains because your army was interlocked, physically, emotionally and spiritually.
I wonder what would happen if we did that. What if we had an army? You know what happens?
You pull in a whole different dynamic because people are a lot more willing to find for their lovers, it turns out.
Isn't that strange? It's almost like it's a weapon. It's a secret weapon.
Quick, somebody send that to the generals up in the top. Give me the first overlay that we've got.
All right, people, I want to show you Clytemnestra. I want to show you.
The war is over. We know that the ships are coming back.
And what has Clytemnestra done? She set up all the altars in the city.
They're burning with the gifts of incense and I'm translating.
And here and there, she reaches up to Uranus. That's the way they had of describing very tall Amazonians.
You know, the daughters of men that ended up with the sons of God.
Okay, are you ready? So she's going around now.
I'm going to give you my translation, which is going to differ from modern or at least classically important translations.
And I'll show you one of them by Browning.
But I just want to give you my translation, right?
So here and there, this very tall, this very tall Amazonian.
What is she doing? She's waving her torches because these are night rites that the priests are involved in, right?
Oh, what time of the day is it? I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
And does anybody know if you've been sitting here for any amount of time and you don't say, oh, right before the sunrise?
Yes. You realize, right? We caught her right in the act of the rites.
And what is she? Look at that fourth line down.
What kind of drugs are you ready for this?
Are you ready?
The royal drug that comes from her innermost recesses.
The holy Christing powered by that painkiller that causes us to be softened.
Yeah.
Isn't that amazing? What is she?
Is this typical?
Is this typical?
What do you mean by typical?
Do you think it's typical?
It's just a bit different.
What does she really mean by that painkiller that causes us to be softened?
Yeah.
Is that amazing?
What is she?
Τι this is typical?
Τι is this typical?
I'm going to Christ all over you.
I'm going to show you so much Christ tonight.
Okay. Let's just do it. Let's just charge it.
Now I'm going to come back to that passage because there's a lot going on there.
This just... it's just this, you know, it makes your soul just come alive.
So we're going to come back to it as we advance.
Πά значήχη. Για να βρώτε που μοινούσατε το βαθύμα πίθι.
Τώρα, έχω τηφοργένυση για να κάνω αυτή η σ прям Γέννη,
παίrus αυξαίνει, ότι βλέπουμε φ meantime να χτ enthalματάajo mini
για να μην tin γιαπό πνη McCartney somethingeler.
��π advocates.
Β mart urbanruns.
Τευσήφιος.
Παρακολουθούμε, όταν they say Enchanted Witch, they've taken you into the back alley.
Αυτό το εξαμπλίσμα, αυτό το εξαμπλίσμα είναι ένα αλληλόγιο στις your mental state.
Μπορείς να είσαι πασυφή, μπορείς να είσαι χοροφή.
Υπάρχουν όλες τα πράγματα που μπορείς να κάνουν.
Τα Μαγγία, they know how to question people under the influence of drugs.
They give you the drugs, you say whatever it is they want you to say.
Αυτό το εξαμπλίσμα, διότι είσαι παρακολουθείς, they have what the fear drugs especially.
Αυτό το εξαμπλίσμα, στις εξαμπλίσμα, they're putting the purple in their hair.
They're putting the purple in their hair.
They're offering their hair.
Τα Μαγγία, they have even found those offerings.
We have them.
This is history we're talking about people.
This is reality.
This is not some idiot trying to sell you a course on mystery religions.
This is reality.
Look, it's the text people.
It's what the text are saying.
It's a reason to be happy because look what we've uncovered.
Can you believe?
These women like Clytemnestra, they're scary.
They're scary and they're running everything.
They're running everything.
Oh, it's a good kind of scary though.
It's supposed to be scary, right?
Okay, give me the next one.
What kind of gods people did we come together if under Clytemnestra the dragon queen?
What kind of rights are we here?
We're here to protect the Astonomontheon.
We're here to honor the gods who guard the nomos,
who guard that gnome of the gods.
What does that gnome?
It's a nem.
And what does it mean when you nemo?
It means you bring my righteous retribution.
You bring my nemesis.
This is the law of the city.
These are the gods that Clytemnestra serves.
You mean, did that guy just say, where's the whip?
The whip's for me this time.
Did that guy just say something about a woman creating civilization?
Do you see?
Do you see what's happening?
Are you surprised that she chopped and put an axe in his head?
Come on, man.
She had already killed three men to get to that point.
What's the big deal?
It's justice, baby.
She was perfectly fine until he went south.
Perfectly fine.
Amazing.
Swift, give me the next one.
What are the gods that we worship here?
Clytemnestra, we...
Look at the second word, chthonion.
That chthonian divinity.
If you understand that, you understand who she is.
And what is the huppaton?
You know what that is?
That's the highest.
That's the highest.
You mean, the septuagint.
The septuagint is somehow being influenced or influencing this.
It's the same culture.
This is the gods who are the highest.
The gods who are the highest.
Monism turns that into the god who is the highest.
But before there was a god who was the highest,
there were chthonian gods who were high.
Yeah, huppaton.
Give me the next one.
And finally, finally, what are we really doing there?
Look at these spirits, people.
I'm going to show you some spirits you've never seen before.
Are you ready?
This is Clytemnestra, and she's sacrificing these cakes
that are...
The air is full of this stuff.
I mean, it's really...
It's too much.
Okay, stop.
The fumigation, I get it.
What gods are we worshiping?
We're doing this for the gods of the city.
We're doing this for the agorion.
You're never going to have heard of these gods, guarantee ya.
They're the gods of the agora.
They're the gods of that public commerce that you and I can have
when we don't try to murder each other.
And by the way, as Athenians,
do you know what kind of police force we have?
We have Scythian archers.
Scythian archers, brah.
Yeah.
Yeah, we do.
And we respect the law.
We have giant juries with hundreds of people in them
making obnoxious noise.
Yes, deciding our fate.
It's democracy.
Can you believe that?
Where's Jesus?
Jesus is not here yet.
Where's Jehovah?
There is no Jehovah at this time.
I want you to realize that.
And Neil is going to have a clip of a scholar.
And while he plays that scholar,
and that scholar says what he says,
I'm going to be sitting in the background going,
ha, ha, he.
That's what I'm going to be doing.
And maybe, I don't know, something else.
And the problem is,
this is the kind of thing that we need to do to bust out
of the Bible
and to reclaim it.
To reclaim it.
A lot of people, people didn't believe me.
I told you, we're going to be teaching the Bible.
Right?
And they even have a way for us to do it.
You know how lucky those teachers are in Oklahoma?
If I were a teacher in Oklahoma right now,
I'd be like, all right, I got it.
I'm there for you.
I'll teach my class the Bible.
I'll teach your class the Bible.
I'll teach everybody here the Bible.
And we're going to start in the Bible
from the time Jesus Christ was arrested
in a public park at 4 a.m. with a naked kid.
Mark 14, 51 and 52.
That's who this is brought to you by.
The Bible.
We are so lucky people.
The Bible is so full of dirty, dirty stuff.
It's the most dirty.
It's the most dirty.
I look at people and I think,
do you actually know what's in there?
Most people don't because they don't read the Greek.
They think the original is this terrible liturgical,
tiny, tiny vocabulary language that's absolutely terrible.
Right?
But it's terrible. You can't convey.
It's like you took something beautiful,
something somebody produced from,
who had been in an art school
and had worked under the great masters of art.
You know, like Michelangelo's student,
it's like you took that and you took that working.
You gave it to a seven-year-old.
And you were like, look, can you describe what you see here?
Because that's what you have in the classical Hebrew.
Because there's no Hebrew around.
There's no Hebrew around.
You're going to be shocked tonight by what this new scholar says.
He's not new.
He's new to me.
What this scholar says about that.
Yes, you're going to be shocked.
Okay.
He's there in the background too, Neil.
Hello.
I'm not going to take up a whole lot more time,
but we're going to go somewhere substantial here.
So I want you to see this.
Give me the next one.
Now, here's the Browning translation.
Yeah.
And here and there, heaven high, the torch uplifts,
flame medicated with persuasions mild,
with foul admixture unbeguiled of holy ungwent
from the clawed chrism brought from the palace,
safe in its abysm.
By the way, Robert Browning made up that word, right?
Which is something, yeah, he did.
Chewie's looking at me like, are you kidding?
No, he had to find somebody to rhyme chrism, right?
So he just made it up.
It's nice.
Look what, you know what happens?
This happens to my students too.
And we're going to talk about school in a minute,
but this happens to my students too.
They start corning words, right?
Emancipation, bro.
Classicist coin, those kind of words, right?
People who have those classical roots,
their minds get possessed by mother Greek.
And I'm not talking modern Greek,
because modern Greek is the result,
is the offspring of the church forcing itself on mother Greek.
And what happens, you get modern Greek, right?
So it's not the same.
I know that, I know that.
1.7 million.
Nobody, nobody, modern Greek is probably 60,000, 70,000.
There's no way.
Oh God, don't be surprised.
Don't be surprised if in the future,
cultures and people are studied by their language,
because it turns out their behavior comes from it.
Isn't that neat?
That's the power, right?
When they sat around and looked at each other,
racking, telling each other, racking, racking, racking.
And what is the racking?
Logos, you...
Let's do it, let's feed.
Okay, people, I've got some good stuff here
and I want you to enjoy it.
I've worked hard on this, hit me.
Here's another one.
Now, this other translation is by the guy
who wrote the grammar.
Herbert Smythe, genius, great guy.
Now here, now there, the flames rise high as heaven,
yielding to the soft and guileless persuasion
of holy ointment, the sacrificial oil itself brought
from the inner chambers of the palace.
Whatever you can reveal.
Whatever you can reveal.
She had a dream, Clyde and Mestra had a dream.
Can I tell you about it?
She dreamed, she suckled a snake
and the snake bit her breast
and the blood from the bite mixed with venom
contaminated the milk
and made the death inducer.
Oh God, what?
Ladies of the late Bronze Age,
what are you people doing?
What are you doing?
They're entering death
and when Jesus Christ stands up
and says to you,
you've been Christed in your eyes,
I'm going to give you a death inducer
but don't worry, it won't hurt you.
When Jesus Christ was doing that
and that's all from the gospels,
when he was doing that,
the cult had a very, very deep root in the civilization.
What he was doing was just tailoring it
to his own profiteering,
whatever he was gaining out of having the boys
in his service, the apostles.
So I'm going to Christ everyone, are you ready?
We've been talking about Christing for a while
and I'm doing this on purpose
because people on the outside
who were not part of the satanic congregation
the thing they're most interested in is Christing
and I think that's very important
for people to understand what Christing is
and I know you guys have seen a lot of Christing,
I got new Christing for you.
I said, don't sit there thinking that I'm going to feed you
the same routine and the lights are going to go off
at a specific time
and then there's step that you do here and there
until we're asleep.
That's not what's going to happen.
I'm going to give you new and exciting Christing.
New and exciting Christing.
This is lovely.
Okay, let's give me the next one, please.
Alright, what do we have here people?
I put together some elements.
I want you to think of this word
in Ergea
and I want you to think of it, not as energy.
Not as energy.
I want you to think about it as what it says
in the first paragraph at the end of it.
It says the activity and it says of drugs.
The gospel is the power of the drug compound.
It is what it is supposed to do.
What is the purpose of the drug?
The purpose is to bring
salvation.
Part of that is the energy.
On the medical side, the energy,
it is that activity of the drug.
I want you to be looking for the activity of the Christ.
I want you to be looking at the activity of that drug.
Okay, here we go.
Give me the next one.
There we go.
The next thing I want you to think about is
this is leading to ekporneo.
What am I going to do when I ekporinate?
I'm going to commit fornication.
Oh, God, no.
Here they go again.
Fornication.
Is anybody know what fornication is?
Fornication. Why don't you go fornicate?
Sounds bad, right?
What do you mean it's idolatry?
For those of you who haven't been here for long,
the act of sexual intercourse
is a form of religious worship.
I'm going to say that again.
The act of intercourse
is a sacred act,
a religious performance
whereby you should gain awareness.
Complete and total awareness.
That's why we call them the orgies.
So that's the place that we're looking for.
That's the place that we're trying to take the society.
That's why we have, again,
the priestesses and the bonkins.
That's why we have them purify us.
Do you see how the power
of the religion and antiquity
in a polytheistic system
is to bring the citizenry
to the best, most beautiful place?
It's very democratic.
Very democratic.
You want the best for your society.
You want the best for them.
You don't want to build a modest box
and whoever isn't the modest box gets wiped out.
That happens throughout history
over and over and over again.
By the way,
the devil was a little bit angry with me
for failing to mention something.
It's not going to give me any big trouble,
but perhaps it would be a better form
for me to acknowledge what he was saying.
He said, remind them, remember,
that the tyrant must always
dismantle and reestablish security.
The tyrant will always dismantle
and reestablish security.
That's security for the tyrant.
That's not security for you and me.
That's security for the tyrant.
I was like, all right, devil,
you're the one who did it and said it.
Let's go for it.
Okay, there you go.
Take that for what it is.
I don't care.
I don't care what you think.
Please, at least say something about it
in the comments.
By the way, your comments are fantastic.
The ones that are not fantastic are fantastic too.
There's some kind of thrill.
I get some kind of weird thrill
out of people who say negative things.
I don't know what it is.
I don't know what it is.
Fantastic, let's keep going.
Does it have anything to do with the anomos?
Where are we going back on our trail?
We're going back to the person who is anomos.
Are you anomos?
I want to show you what the Amazonian queens,
what the Scythian archers,
I want to show you what those women think.
You are anomos.
Give me the next one.
You are anomos.
You are athios anomos and adicos.
Do you know what you are?
You are a monist.
You are someone who despises justice.
You are someone without law.
Why did I say monist?
Why did I say monist?
Because monist is the person who denies the gods.
You see, you thought as a monist,
or as a Christian, as a Jew,
a religious Jew, or a religious Muslim,
as that person worshiping that one god,
you thought you were just like,
you clipped all the other ones off.
No.
No, no, no.
What you did by rejecting everyone,
but the one is create a world that was upside down,
in which you can't have justice anymore.
You can't have justice, right?
Oh god, it's the Bacchic conundrum.
Because this is the person we're here to cleanse.
We are here to cleanse those who the ancients called atheists,
namely the Christians, the monists.
We're here.
We're here to free those people.
And the only way to free them is to show them the gods.
Is to show them.
Yeah, bring back the history.
Why they guard these texts so well.
They're powerful.
You think, oh, the biggest, the most powerful substance
in the universe is that nuclear stuff we're messing around with.
Yeah, that's probably will be our demise,
but do you realize the power historically of those classical texts?
I'm proud of all the people who want to be in the classes.
I'm proud of that.
That's gorgeous.
It says a great thing.
It says a great thing about you, right?
Sit back as I'm reading all your applications.
Sit back and look at it and see.
You know what?
This is a good thing.
Look what I'm doing.
I love it.
I love it.
I commend everyone.
Everyone who sent in an application, I commend them.
Give me the next one.
We've got to hear Neil is saying.
He said, don't hurry, but I've got to get there.
We've got to Christ to everyone.
Watch this.
What else do I want you to see?
Here, people, step into those shoes.
We're looking at law.
That is the nomen here.
You see it in the blue, in the Greek.
Φαρμακον.
Μαλακοχερα.
Νομον.
What is that?
The soft-handed law of drugs.
That's how you refer to the physician's art.
Yeah, the soft-handed law of drugs.
Now, that soft-handed, I'd argue, you could push that to
the mollifying law of drugs.
The pain-killing law of drugs that's got that spirit of
hypocritees wrapped up in it and all that.
It's the gorgeous stuff.
This is all classical, right?
This is not Christian at all.
It's not any monism.
There's no monism involved here in the formation of classical civilization.
That's one thing I need to get across.
People are sitting here in a democracy.
At least the Americans, right?
That's at least what we believe.
We're sitting in a democracy.
We have to defend what that democracy is, and that democracy didn't come from Christianity.
It didn't.
That's what they're going to be teaching in the schools here.
Yes, our friends across the pond.
It's coming for you next.
What do we have to do?
We have to bring it back to them.
We have to show them democracy was not birthed by Christianity.
Democracy came from polytheistic people of all sorts of races.
All sorts.
The thing they had in common was their language and the fact that they were polytheists.
Who wouldn't walk through town and see the Temple of Justice and say,
That's a good thing, right?
When you walk by your city, your town hall, your city mayor's office at the police station,
you say, What a good thing, right?
Now, their police may be different from the city and archers, right?
Most of the time, you can nick somebody and knock them out, you know what I mean?
They ought to start giving the police some kind of chemical force.
That's fantastic.
No, don't take my suggestions.
What are you doing?
Look at me, Julie.
Can you believe anybody would listen to that?
What is the next source?
People, what's in the world today?
They're pseudo-Christ and a lot of pseudo-profits.
And they're making signs.
They're doing signs, creating signs and these monstrosities.
And they're all to lead people astray.
They're all to lead people astray.
This is in the same Gospel where Jesus, in the next chapter, gets arrested in the public park
with a naked kid.
The time contemporary with Jesus Christ are pseudo-Christ and pseudo-profits.
Why do pseudo-Christ and pseudo-profits go together?
Because when you get really, really high, that's when you can hear the angels.
That's when you can hear the angels, bro.
You haven't been there?
Sorry.
Sorry for you.
Sorry.
But if you're a follower of Christ, you're going to have to go there.
Or else the Kingdom of Heaven has nothing to do with you.
And by the way, all our boys get castrated.
What?
What?
Oh God, we're back with the Syrian mother again.
I don't think she's going to tolerate this much longer.
Do you people just wait?
The Syrian mother is going to show up and all that stuff.
She's going to be chasing it out.
The watchers told me that.
They don't just watch, they can also talk.
Give me the next one.
And what happens now?
Yeah, in these days, after the tribulation, people would translate this as,
it's going to become dark and the moon will not give off its reflective light.
It's fangus, right?
That gorgiosity that permeates.
And so remember all of the worshipers of Selenia and that should be capitalized there, right?
Selenia and the New Testament is full of gods.
Yeah, it's got Hades and death and everything and they're active participants all the time, right?
Because it's written within a polytheistic culture that it then turned around children and destroyed in order to set up tyranny.
Complete and total tyranny.
Yeah, you bet man.
They had power not just over your things and over your body.
They had power over your soul.
They had power over your soul, baby.
You want that big house of yours?
They're going to get it.
They're going to get it and they did.
They did.
Are you ready for the dark ages again?
Who here?
No, seriously.
People in the chat, shall we see if you can put up chat?
Who here is for the return of the dark ages?
I can't wait for 1200, right?
When we get back to the stench of 1200, I'm going to throw them up there.
What's the name of it?
Hands off me, right?
Whose hands are the hands of Christ, right?
Oh, God.
All right, let's go.
Go to the source.
We'll come back to you.
We'll pick that up.
Here we are.
And yeah, what else is going to happen?
There's going to be stars that fall from Uranus, right?
The powers in the Uranus, in the heavens.
Yeah, they will shake.
They will shake, right?
It's a quantum event that includes drawing down the stars.
The applied amestra is drawing down the stars.
She is that woman.
Do you want to know what's under her feet, the moon?
Do you want to know what she clothes herself with, the sun?
Oh, my God.
This is gorgeous now.
No dark ages.
It's okay.
It's okay.
I like knowledge.
I like knowledge, too.
Yes, absolutely, Angela.
Absolutely, absolutely.
Right?
We don't want to go back.
No.
Right?
Oh, God, we've got it.
It's going to happen.
It's going to happen, people.
Right?
Right?
It's happening right around you.
Get your Bibles, Oklahomans.
I can't wait.
I can't wait.
Yeah, I should go teach in Oklahoma, shouldn't I?
If you think I should teach in Oklahoma, shouldn't I?
Oklahoma needs you, almond.
All right, let me get back to that.
Let me get back to how long do you think I'd last in Oklahoma?
I'd have to wear a mustache and do something.
Anyway, give me the next chart.
I'm going to Christ.
I'm going to Christ to everyone.
I'm in a Christing mood.
Ta-da!
Look, here's a whole list of Christings.
I want you to look at the next chart.
I want you to look at the next chart.
Τα δάδα, εδώ είναι το κλείδι της Χριστίας.
Θέλω να σας δείξω, λοιπόν, για τα άνθρωποι που νιώθαν ότι ο Ιησούς ήταν ο Ιησούς,
και νιώθαν ότι ο Ιησούς was a term, was just about Jesus.
Εδώ υπάρχει ένα κομμάτι της Ιησούς που θα σκέφτες τη φαίνα σου.
Υπάρχει κάτω μέσα στον κομμάτι.
Τα κομμάτια είναι όλοι σκέφτερα.
Τα Ιησούς είναι τη φαίνα σου.
Τα Ιησούς είναι τη φαίνα σου.
Δεν μπορείς να το δείξεις από αυτή.
Τα κομμάτια είναι όλοι σκέφτερα.
Τι Χριστός, το Αρτι Χριστός, το Ασσούν Χριστός.
Τι Χριστέω.
Θα δούμε κάποιες.
Θα πεις ότι είναι αυτό.
Θα πεις ότι είναι όλοι οι Ιησούς.
Τώρα, εδώ είναι έναν κομμάτι.
Έναν κομμάτι της Ιησούς.
Αν δούμε, αυτά είναι έτσι.
Πριν πριν, σκέφτερα, και πριν, Ιησούς.
Ναι, πριν πριν, σκέφτερα, και πριν.
Και δούμε όλοι οι Ιησούς που είμαστε εδώ.
Αν δούμε, πις ο Χριστός.
Αυτό γίνει καλύτερη.
Πις ο Χριστός.
Ράζει, σκέφτερα.
Χριστέ.
Φυσικά.
Ξέρω ότι είναι ψου.
Τώρα, δεν ήταν πιστή.
Ξέρω ότι είναι ψου.
Είναι η Ιησούς Χριστέ.
Ας δούμε μερικά αυτά.
Παρακολουθούμε μερικά αυτά.
Λοιπόν, πριν.
Αφού, πιστή.
Φερμαστεί με εγώ.
Αν δεν είπα.
Αυτό είναι ένας Έλληνος σκέφτερας!
Καιδίες.
Καιδίες, ξέρετε ότι είναι το τύπο του κόσμου.
Εντάξει, πιστή.
Αυτή είναι μια μονασία από Ιησούς.
Καιδίες, ξέρετε ότι είναι το τύπο του κόσμου.
Υπήρετε, πιστή.
Πιστήλες, πιστήλες.
Φυσικά.
και διάφορα πρόσφυγες.
Αυτό είναι το τρόπο της κόσμος.
Είχατε πίσω αυτές τις πρόσφυγες?
Θα δείτε να δείτε τα αγγεία σας εδώ, παιδιά.
Ναι, ναι, ναι, δεν είχαν really part of us.
Θα ήθελα να μεταφέρουν.
Αν λοιπόν,
Υπάρχει ένα κρυσμό
μου κρυσμού, πίσω και αγγείας.
Πρέπει να έχετε ένα κρυσμό
από το κόμμα της δύναμης.
Αυτό είναι το κόμμα της δύναμης,
και αυτό είναι το κόμμα της δύναμης.
ṰΟΕΕΕΗΔΑH
ένα κρυσμό
από το κόμμα της δύναμης.
Θα προ thrilling.
Πολύ θέ scalinguvre.
roof
θέλετε να γίνετε.
Χά gebaut trumpetas.
τάζε τα being to then.
Χά τα trem면 της.
Γιατί δεν γνωρίζει από πάντες!
Νταρά, δεν είναι advertise...
ALL TO D.
Τι παντες πάντες these Oklahoids...
YOU! ALL
ARE IN THE KNO.
Τα συνεργία θα σε breastsεται 벌τι να τους συμβαίνει...
…μα να σε γνωρίζει και θα να σε funnel.
THIS TEXT
Read Re gardens
Ξέρει ότι είσαι όλοι, όλοι που έχουν την Ιησία, είσαι όλοι γνωρίζοντας.
Ξέρεις τι είσαι στον Θεό με τα μυστρία, είσαι, γνωρίζοντας!
Ο Θεός Απολό was there to guide you through it.
Είναι part of the whole citizenship thing.
Είσαι καλύτερη.
Είσαι καλύτερη, είσαι καλύτερη, είσαι καλύτερη, είσαι καλύτερη, είσαι καλύτερη, είσαι καλύτερη, είσαι καλύτερη, είσαι καλύτερη, είσαι καλύτερη, είσαι καλύτερη, είσαι καλύτερη, είσαι καλύτερη, είσαι καλύτερη, είσαι καλύτερη, είσαι καλύτερη, είσαι καλύτερη, είσαι καλύτερη, είσαι καλύτερη, είσαι καλύτερη, είσαι καλύτερη, είσαι καλύτερη, είσαι καλύτερη, είσαι καλύτερη, είσαι καλύτερη, είσαι καλύ
tamakorn, είози και spreaded fury一直 σπ Thats what she is using. Meat of maestra.
So weight's, you mean Christ is a drug.ij
give the next Christ, let's Christiction in the face
A little more, come on right in your visual, don't look away.
Θα θέλω να τηίασε ο 언ός, ο Θεός πας μας.
Δενurity do Κύριο. Πάω αmy Βόδας!
Για να Kaluhawra's ζωή μας.
Φάируσε την εισπράσφασης!
Δεν stirring ο μονορφάλας
Τώρα για τα άνθρωποι που έχουν δει για εμένα και έγινε, τι είναι η Σεντάρ, εγώ θέλω να θέλω να γνωρίζω.
Αφήσεις έναν άνθρωπο που είναι άνθρωπος από το σχέδιο, αλλά πώς να πω αυτό.
Από το σχέδιο, είναι ένα σχέδιο.
Ο Σεντάρ είναι ένας που διδάει την αγγότητα.
Ο Σεντάρ, ο Χρικλής ένιωσε, οπότε τον σχέδιο.
Αυτό είναι οι άνθρωποι που βιλούν, ούτε οι άνθρωποι που έχουν διδάει.
Είναι thank you to our viewers behind me.
My goodness, but from those bows are coming the tank or coming the pharmaceutical tech.
It's ultimately driving the religion that is driving Bronze age, society.
It's gorgeous, it's gorgeous.
touchscreen.
It's gorgeous, and it's oh god.
Give me the next one.
We muster it, give me the next one Yep, boom.
Υπήρχε ένα άνθρωπο που είχε ένα σπίτι για 12 χρόνια.
Από την πράγματα, δεν μπορούσε να καταλάβει.
Δεν μπορούσε να καταλάβει.
Αυτό που γίνεται, έπρεπε ένα κομμάτι.
Έτσι, έκανε ένα κομμάτι από το κομμάτι του.
Αυτό που γίνεται, έκανε ένα κομμάτι.
Κικανών που μοινούσετε τα φαί bad memories,
που θα ακούете, όταν μην LMaimeilage είναι傲.
Κάτι στα άνθρωποι που seit κάποιοςnite οΥπαί και β Guatemala,
θα sl.
στους ανθρώπους הנ того για μηλάωτα,
� ούτρα radiantα, στις τελευταδές θα ἦnoise,
but that's not what's going on. That's not what's going on. This is Christing and you're in the middle of it. Give it to me. Give it to me again. What was the, give it, go back.
She's cured. She's cured. Now why is this? Why is this? Diana is Christing the robes of Heracles with a drug that is meant to cause him to be attracted to and excited for her.
It is an aphrodisiac. You see, where has Heracles been for the last year? Diana is fed up with it. She's like, the dude's never around. Where is he? Where is the, where is he?
And it turns out he comes, comes back and he's got Yoli with him. Who is Yoli? You remember Cassandra? Meet Yoli. They did it again. They did it again. His shirt gets Christed.
It makes complete and total anthropological sense when you're looking at the medicine and the drugs that Jesus would also be Christing.
Yeah. Yeah. Now you know why. Now you know why. You thought it was a fairy tale and just boom, boom. He's the Christ. No. I'm sorry and people are beginning to wake up. They're beginning to see this and they're beginning to wake up and I want to talk to you a little bit.
Let me Christ a little bit more. Christ on you. Christ on you. Right on the glorious face. You've, right? Because in the, in the, in the idea of the ops, you've got this thing that radiates from your face, right? Your ops. Sometimes it's translated as your vision, but it has to do not with just your physical sight, but with your understanding of the world.
Right. The cool clops has that one circular vision.
It may have two eyes. Don't think he just has one. Right. Okay. Here we go. So what did she say? What does the wife empirically say? She says, look, the centaur, that seer, that beast. This is what he showed me.
He showed me this after he got, he got hit by the arrow because remember Hercules shot him, right? Cause he's messing around with his wife. And what did he show her? He showed her how to bring Achilles back. It was a love potion.
She said, I remembered it. This is for all the Mormons out there. I remembered it as if I had written it down on copper plates.
And what happened? She says, I did everything faithfully that he told me to do, the centaur. You know what I did? I made that drug. I put it into a place where it couldn't be touched by the light because he said, you know, something's bad is going to happen.
Right. And I hit it. I just took it and I brought it to the very innermost part. I brought it to the very innermost part of my womanly quarters, my womanly apartment, my womanly temple. I brought it there. Yeah.
Yeah. And what happened? I kept it safe until I could take it out and freshly Christ. Look at that bottom line. Third word in the bottom line.
Do you see how much Christing there is an antiquity flashed through these really quick? We're going to fly. We're going to fly now. She's Christing in her innermost Damos, right? That's in her oikos. That's in her house, but it's in her innermost chamber. That's sacred chamber. Her sacred chamber. Hit me with the next one. What are we going to do? And I want you to notice that these are associated with women.
These acts are women. Remember, this is number three. Number three things as Athenians. You oil yourself thoroughly in wrestling and in love. Yeah. If you aren't, it's because you're a barbarian, man. Listen to your stupid language.
Here we go. On anointing. Give the next one. Di a Christeo. One must anoint. You get into a situation with sorenus. See, sore, S-O-R. That's sorenus. 216 is working on gynecology. He's talking about the parts in gynecology that must be anointed. Did you know you're supposed to anoint yourself?
Did you know? And I'm talking to the audience of sore anus. I'm talking to the audience of the doctor who is the gynecologist. Anoint yourselves. Di a Christeo.
Okay. Di a Christos. Sabs. Look, you can just have ta di a Christa and it's sabs, just in general ointments. What a nice concept. Keep going.
An Christeo. One must anoint. Look, what do we get again? Sorenus. He's big on this Christing thing. Yes, because it's women's medicine. And when they're talking about Christing and women's medicine, they're talking about Christing the woman's privates.
They talk about Christing the men's privates too. But in these contexts, this is women's medicine. You're supposed to be Christed. All of these years. Jesus Christ. Okay, give me the next one. More Christing and we're going to call on you.
An Christos rubbed in. Look at that. You get a little bit more. It's not, you don't just lather this stuff on. You rub it in and look at where you rub it in. You rub it into the Othalmus, into the eyes.
You thought I was making it up when I said Christing is rubbing stuff into your eyes. No, it is. And do you know why they're doing that? The doctors all talk about it. It's enchantment.
It's changing your mental perceptions. Altered mental perceptions. That's what they're doing. They're inducing with the drugs. And some of them do it with the eyes.
Do you know that when Jesus was with that naked boy, and that naked boy has the bandage on his private part, and Jesus ends up with that goo on his face, in his eyes.
All right. It doesn't help to swallow it. The goo goes in the eyes says the Christ.
I know. I know. Where's my... I don't think I can take much more Christing. This is too much Christing. Everybody agree? I'm getting... I'm getting... Okay, give me a little more Christing. Just a little. People want...
If you're out there and you want more Christing, give it to me. This is the supply of oil for the Christing, Eliokristia. Good, good.
So, you know, there's like technical terms that are Christ terms. That's okay. Give it. And then we have the Epichristos. That's what smeared on.
Look at the pharmakha. The pharmakha that are smeared on. Right? Okay, good, good. Next one. How about the philochristos? Now, look, people, here's a late word. It's giving a sixth century on Odomini, right? From Palestine.
And what is it? It's a philochrist. Loving Christ. Loving Christ. So, you can watch. You can watch the development of the word so that next time you say Christ, you'll know what it means. Okay, give me the next one.
I hope we're past the ones that are making me sick in the time.
Just look, people, another idiocy at the end of it. That's another medical, another medical, again, talking about parts of the body that you need to anoint.
For those of you who didn't believe me a year ago, when I talked about the apocalypse, right, and the Trojiscoe, right?
You'll notice that it says here the Katachristos is for use as ointments or Trojiscoe.
Remember, those are the things that we always translate as seals. Ezekiel has them and those round circle things that they always paint.
Those Christians that paint that stuff, by the way, by the way, I had a word. I was supposed to tell you this.
Oh, and the word drug was there, too. Right there with the seals that you're talking about.
Okay, I was supposed to tell you, oh, shoot, what does the devil tell me to tell him?
Oh, it'll come back to me. It'll come back to me. Let me keep thanking. Go, give me the next one.
Λεωκό Χριστός, right? Whitewashed. Whitechristan. I wonder what it means to get Whitechristan. Give me the next one.
Μουρό. Oh, this is one of my favorites. This is one of my favorites. Anointed with the Angua.
Now, that's a really tame way of saying the sex drugs, right? The sex oil. Put on your sex oil. Why are they doing this?
Isn't everybody, you know, it's so common that they bring it to the stage.
Arrhez kafniz brings it to the stage. And the oiling up is the getting ready.
When it says that Palaistra was getting ready to wrestle, and she told him, get yourself ready.
What was she talking about? She was talking about the Myrochristing.
Ναι, έχεις ένα μυρό Χριστιασμό. Γιατί, γιατί θα είσαι σκοτωμένος.
Αν δεν θα είσαι σκοτωμένος, κάτι είναι σκοτωμένος. Εκεί είσαι μάθος να είσαι σκοτωμένος.
Τι θα γίνει εδώ, κάποιος, κάποιος πήγε αυτόν τον άνθρωπο. Βλέπω εδώ.
Λέντες, καλύτερες φορές. Λέντες, νέο κατά Χριστός.
Ωτε π Ferrari'τος' σκοτωμένη, δεν μη αγαίνει видели λίγα.
Βάση Чωρά, spreadι δεν με δι蹓ουν αρχτών.
Πενταγύολο και τιν Whenever to become your kid.
Λέντες, earthy.
Φέρεδinek.
Ίπενάγα PHILilliXάγξα, μια εσύ και έχω ένα少ρυλο.
Λέγอน εσύ, παρος δαπράγοντα την βαζότητα,
γυρίθουν χάρες σ' them να είχαν καθόλου 개�ότυrą
Αξ defining their world
γωνικά a
και πάνεν braucht να συμβείλλες
がκάτα με συπήκω στο dona
είναι γωνικά품
diversity
Τ cadence
και μπανισμένη
και μπανισμένη
και πανημένος
δε άπασχεσ esos σχνοδελμούς
θα φαίνουμε
σαν Sewing
Καλwnό μας για να γίνουμε τον επόμενο.
Καλ bladder και прыγκοdale στις δάσες,
Λεωχγονίας are great etc.
Γίνουμε στοeken kendi τον ο Kennedy.
Η ο ποχκάλτα είναι προσεχτική και παρευκό ένα ενδ expresses.
Ξεκινήσετε τι μπορεί, τότε στο άνθρωπο του βαθ TrungαJenna
должно παλέρει ανάτποτρα.
απλώντες ναeau. Άτμενη Αναρβή- μία ανματισindustία, ένα τίποτα really
ταλεύτας pursued ταλευταίαμα- Φατνοί οιό somethin' called
kind of
What the heck is that i
something called
Li träγ misschien
a know it right must be here
tahine
Oh no, on
Υπάρχει κάτι like that, or butter, you can Christ with that, look, look at number four,
λιππασμα οθαλμον, talking about a tear, talking about a tear, that little ointment in your eye, isn't that gorgeous?
You can, sometimes you just got to, you got to Christ people, right?
Next time you Christ, you know, think about it, think about what you're doing, it's a medical practice.
Υπάρχεις, κοινήστε τούτερο.
Υπάρχει στον χωρία, κάτι σκέλω, κάτι σκέλω, κάτι σκέλω, we're just smearing stuff all over the place.
We've got bottles of this stuff laying around, right?
These are, this is actual reality people, this is not literature, this is reality, we've got some dudes, a white washer. Good for him, right?
Υπάρχει τούτερο για Ξέν.
Τι σημαίνει η word for Christian is the word for one who is Christ.
Yes, that's why it says in Revelation, I remember, every single word of the apocalypse is true and anybody who messes with it...
Αυτό που το δεύτερο μου ένιωσε να μου πω.
Αυτό που το δεύτερο μου ένιωσε να μου πω.
Το δεύτερο μου ένιωσε να μου πω.
Κοίτας, σύντομα, είναι αυτό το άνθρωπο who wrote the series left behind and the people that were involved with it.
Είσαι δεν είσαι στην καλή στιγμή.
Αυτό που είσαι ένιωσε ήταν φεύγη.
Είσαι φεύγη.
Και ήταν μια καλή στιγμή από ένα κομμάτι, ένα κομμάτι, ένα σκρόλο, ένας σκρόλος που είναι σκορσμένος.
Είναι σκορσμένος και έτσι είσαι.
Και πάνω από το δεύτερο μου ένιωσε να μου πω.
Είσαι ένιωσε να μου πω.
Είσαι ένιωσε να μου πω.
Ένα φωριστική μου έματο εδώ μου, κατεύθυμ ο έγγραμμς.
Yeah, yeah. It's amazing. Nobody reads the Bible though, people. I don't know why.
No, nobody reads the Bible anymore. Okay, we're gonna read the Bible. Watch this.
Here's a Christian, Cristianos. Give me the next one. Here's Peter.
He says, look, you know, if you get persecuted because you're a Cristianos, don't be ashamed.
Don't be ashamed. Let it be to the glory, right? To the glory and the name, right?
Because that, to us, is everything. What are we? We are the Christed.
You have none of these people walking around today. Christians are not the Christed.
They have not taken the Thonestimon that Jesus said you have to take.
Realize, your life is a figment of an imagination that came from the first, second and third centuries.
A monism that destroyed your own understanding of yourself.
Okay, let's keep going. Let's keep going. More of that Christing. I think we're just gonna jump.
I think we're just, here's the pseudo Christ. Yeah, here's a couple more verses and I think we're gonna finish up with that.
Finish up with that. This is to anoint yourself all over. Now, if you anoint yourself all over, good for you.
Good for you. I think that's how it should be done too. I'm with these. I'm gonna hang with these people.
The Amphichrist. Look at how many new types of people we can have. Are you an Amphichrist?
Oh, yeah, you know it. Give me the next one. What is that one? I wanna see with that coin.
Oh, yeah, yeah, no. There's lots of pseudo Christs, you know, prophets.
And they're all doing this in the sun, right? In the moon. Selenius there, right? Beneath the feet.
Did you get your anointing on? Is that why we're hearing? What we're hearing? Yes, it is.
And finally, here's your invocation and here is your anointing, your besmearing, right?
Okay, I just wanted you to see. It's a lot of Christing. It's a lot of Christing.
So, I've given you the context of what people did when they actually Christed.
And I hope that you're beginning to see where the right is coming from as we look into the Bronze Age,
to the drugs that they were first using, or at least it's the first record.
I'm sure, you know, I don't know how old it is, but it's when we begin to see literary depictions, right?
It's when we begin to see, it's at this time, the late Bronze Age, that they're coming up with this drug tech,
or at least they're employing it. And guess what, ladies? You're right in the middle of it.
You're right in the middle of it, and it turns out our society is just a weak reflection of what that original
Amazonian, democratic, oracle-creating Bronze Age world where women could castrate captives, poison them,
and turn them into sex slaves. When you say the good old days, that's what you're talking about.
To the Greeks, these were the good old days. You had to be there. The tech was something.
Okay, I'm going to call in Neil now, and I'm going to see.
Look, you had to wait way longer. This is terrible, but you told me not to worry.
People, I want us to welcome back Hercules, who has come back to us from his adventures.
Yeah, and he's gotten everything out of the system, and now he's come back,
and he's ready to hit you with some sources. Thank you for coming tonight.
I don't want to set up your clip, Neil. I want you to set it up, but I want people.
I'm going to be sitting in the background saying, I tell you so, I tell you so.
Okay, I'm going to let you... Yep, you're good. You're good. I'm going to give it over to you.
I want to play that clip last, so that way you can come back and react to it. We can talk about it.
Okay, turn your volume up a little bit. Chewie says, Arg, turn it up.
How's that? Better?
Yeah, a little bit better. Okay, cool.
Let's go with the first slide that I have. It's the white text, not the video.
He was talking about gods in the Bible, so I'm sure somebody in the crowd wants to see what he means by that.
I pulled it up, and this is the clear example of...
You find this type of rhetoric and this type of style and the sibling oracles,
which were around in the 1st century, 1st century BC, 1st century AD, 1st century, 2nd century, and so on.
By the way, sibling oracles, they're written sort of in the...
Well, obviously, they're written in a hexameter prose, like they're written in a certain style of Greek,
but like Revelation, which isn't written in that same style of Greek,
but Revelation is like sibling oracles in the sense that they're both very prophetic
and they use gods as concepts of things in the world.
They're both very ideas-based, I guess. That's the way to put it.
But I want to throw something at you. I want to show you what he means by that.
At the end of Revelation, chapter 20, verse 11, he says...
He saw a white throne, a great white throne,
and on it, sitting who's from the face, fled the...
You got Gaia and Aranos in the nominative singular, both of them.
Now, this doesn't necessarily mean, because in the nominative singular,
it doesn't mean it's a person necessarily or a god necessarily.
It can be heaven and earth, but watch what's going on in this chapter.
That's what matters to me.
So as it continues, and heaven and earth were in place and was not found for them,
and I saw the dead and great and small standing before the throne,
and the Biblia were open, and another Biblia was open,
which was the one of Zoe, the book of Zoe,
and were judged the dead, the nekroy, out of the things that were written.
And in these Biblios, according to the deeds of them,
and he gave up Thalassa.
Now, Thalassa can just mean sea, but in the Orphic hymns,
I have no Orphic hymns right there, there's a whole dedication,
there's a whole sacrifice, there's a whole ritual,
where you can actually light certain incense and him and honor Thalassa.
Thalassa is a god.
So let's continue.
I think the evidence gets better as we go.
It says,
Θανατος.
So what did I just say there?
Θανατος and Hades are there.
Not only is Thalassa there giving up his dead,
but Θανατος and Hades are giving up their dead,
and who were in them,
and they were judged each according to their works,
Θανατος and Hades were cast into the lake of Puros, of fire.
Θανατος, this is the second death.
Θανατος and Hades are actually characters in Orphic mythology,
or the greater Orphic textual corpus, if you want to call it that.
They do have their own dead.
Hades has his own dead that he has control over.
He has souls that he has power over.
Θανατος and Θανατος.
Θανατος is Chronos who rules Elysium.
Θανατος is Persephone.
There's also a lake of fire down there.
The oldest lake of fire we find is in Greek mythology.
You don't find a lake of fire in any Old Testament or Hebrew mythology.
That's a totally Greek mythology thing that you're finding in this chapter.
So I think Revelation is playing around with gods,
and they're being judged.
By the way, these are great gods, not just little gods.
These aren't just daemons.
These are great gods who have Orphic hymns dedicated to them, all of them.
Θανατος, Θανατος, Θανατος, Θανατος, Θανατος, Θανατος, Θανατος, Θανατος.
All of those gods that were mentioned in this chapter, all of them have specific hymns dedicated to them.
They all have specific honors, specific ways to sacrifice, specific incense is burned to them.
So that's a really good point here.
I think there's some polytheism happening in the book Revelation.
To me, there's no doubt.
So I wanted to start off with that, because the reason why I want to start off with that is because this is what we find in the mysteries.
Υπάρχουν πολλές ανθρώπτες, δηλαδή οι μυστήρες είναι κάθε πράγματα που συμβουλούν.
Λοιπόν, στο ίδιο το ίδιο της Χριστιανίας, δηλαδή έχουν οι μυστήρες πραγματικές,
και τίποτα πράγματα που συμβουλούν.
Μυθραϊκές μυστήρες, δηλαδή αυτά τα πράγματα που συμβουλούν.
Εντάξει με την Αθρατολήμη, το ΣαΚΣΕΣΙΣΙΑ,
όλα τα μυθραϊκές πράγματα, τα Λέστα,
consists the operation to convince the Byzantine people that they can live as
they can live un tym, as they can live in the Byzantine Brotherhood...
Τέλος butterfly, rose as a flower.
Umm, but sometimes they turn the leaf into a star is again put.
They all end up transferring their cult over chase f ministreok outfits Montoser Shank.
They just slip inside themselves.
They end up transferring their cult over to the Romans.
And in that way you could never forget the cult of Mithras.
That's according to Pluto.
Όλα those basically go back to the least early Iron Age.
If not Aelousinian and Samoa Thrasian, go back to the Bronze Age.
The mystery religions are old, is as old as writing is.
You don't even know how old Aelousinian mysteries are. Who knows?
Samoa Thrasian mysteries are even older than the Aelousinian mysteries.
Even the Aelousinians admitted that.
So Samoa Thrasian mysteries, who knows?
And if you actually...
A little bit we do know about the Samoa Thrasian mysteries,
They have pre-Greek, archaic, what they call Pulascian gods, the names of their gods that go back before Greek, that's how old it is.
That's what the sources say.
So I wanted to share, let me see, let me stop this screen.
I got a file that I want to share.
Let me see, what do I do with this file?
Just give me a second.
I got some good stuff to add to what Ammo was saying.
So speaking of the mysteries, you got the word Muo.
And if you look at Perseus Tufts and Alice, you get close, be shut of the eyes.
Remember what Ammo was saying?
He was talking about having your eyes be open by being Christed.
But yeah, that's what the word means.
It literally just means to close.
So Muo means I initiate or I disclose.
Moustace is a word that's used that just means initiate.
So from that word Muo, I shut, you get these other words having to do with religion, having to do with being initiated.
Paul, talking about Christ crucified as the mystery or the secret, is a language that would have caught the ear of the God fearing Greek in the time period.
And what I said, mysteries.
Ooh, I love mysteries.
What do you got for me?
I'll be initiated.
Give me a baptism.
Give me a Christ.
Give me some Eucharist.
In fact, we have some sources on that.
So let's talk about that.
By the way, I wrote Marcus Magus down here because I have him in my notes and I was trying to write Diascortes.
That's not Marcus Magus.
This is Diascortes.
I don't know why I wrote that.
But he did.
Diascortes did die in 90 AD.
So that is true.
So I got that part right.
Diascortes is going to be the subject of the next couple of minutes.
He died in 90 AD.
He's a contemporary running around with Paul.
Maybe he was even Paul's plug.
Who knows?
Maybe Paul was buying his shit off this guy.
But anyways, the verse that I wanted to address here is Porfura Caesa, which I'm going to cite Oldboy here.
I got to cite Oldboy.
This is a screenshot from one of Oldboy's videos where he translates this as the burning purple.
Now, I wanted to translate it myself too.
I think it's the...
Let's see.
What does he got?
He's got the heiress active.
I think it's the heiress passive.
But I could be wrong.
I could be wrong.
I'm just saying.
I want to see what people think about that.
I'm throwing that out there.
We can go back to that.
We can circle back to that.
I'm not trying to start nothing.
But it wouldn't even make a difference.
It will make a slight difference.
It would be the burnt purple.
The purple that's been burnt.
Whereas in the heiress active, it's the burning purple.
Now, the reason why I bring that up is because Dia Scorides talks about this burnt purple,
where he says it has these different uses.
You can use it to clean wounds.
You can use it to clean scars.
You can use it for checking overgrown flesh, whatever that means.
And it's a detersive of the teeth.
It cleans your teeth out,
which is odd because you see a lot of teeth cleaners these days that are actually purple.
I don't know if you guys know that.
Go to your local cosmetic store and go to the teeth cleaning stuff.
You'll see there's purple teeth cleaners out there.
And I almost wonder if they rediscovered Dia Scorides' methods of cleaning teeth.
Just saying.
You never know.
But yeah.
So, okay, that's that.
I'm going to lay...
That's the Dan clip that I have saved for when I need it.
So I'm going to go to...
I have one more thing I got to show.
Since we're on the topic of burning purple,
or the burnt purple, whichever it is,
I want to share my last screen before I get to that video.
And that is this.
So this is a story we get...
This is a story we get from Hippolytus
at the end of the 2nd century,
I think, early 3rd maybe.
But anyways, he's talking about a guy named Marcus who lived in the 2nd century.
Now, before I read this story, I want you to realize how big of a deal this guy is.
He gets his own...
Just entire multiple chapters dedicated just to him.
Where most...
Most heretics get like a paragraph or a page or a sentence.
Marcus gets multiple pages and he gets multiple books dedicated just to himself.
Only Marcus...
Valentinus, by the way, Marcus was the successor of Valentinus.
We're going to get into that.
The Valentinians were a huge...
I think they were the mystery, the earliest...
I think they represent the earliest shred of Christianity.
But we'll get into that too.
But anyways, the Nassian preacher, who we don't know his real name,
Valentinus and Marcus,
they get the most...
Most action in these texts.
They get the most...
They're the most serious by far.
And it's because of how much power they had.
It turns out, this is not just me spewing nonsense.
Anybody, this is like well-known...
This is like consensus stuff.
The Marcosians, who are an offshoot of the Valentinians,
are the largest growing faction of Christianity in France
in the second and third and fourth century.
All the way into...
They were there for a while apparently.
And they got their name from this guy.
So, European Christianity comes from this.
What are you about to hear?
Alright, let's read this story.
But there is another among them
of these heretics, Marcus by name,
who boasts himself as having improved upon his master.
He is a perfect adept in magical imposters.
And by this means, drawing a great number of men,
and not a few women,
he has induced them to join themselves to him
as to one who is possessed of the greatest gnosis and perfection.
That's what the word actually is.
And who has received the highest power
from the invisible and ineffable regions above.
Thus, it appears as if he really were
the precursor of Antichrist.
For joining the buffooneries
of a noxulus of the craftiness of the Magi,
that's why he gets his nickname from Marcus Magus.
As they are called,
he is regarded by his senseless and cracked brain followers
as working miracles as by these means.
What miracles?
Pretending to consecrate cups mixed with wine,
the Eucharist obviously,
and protracting to great length the word of invocation.
He contrives to give them a purple and reddish color.
Remember, the purple, we talked about this all the time,
sometimes it's a dark red crimson,
it doesn't have to be purple.
Sometimes it can be a little on the reddish side.
But here we got a good candidate for this right here.
Purple and reddish color.
By the way, I love this translation.
The one that I was going to use translates this to grace.
This person kept the word keras.
They actually transliterated it. I love it.
Because it makes you hear the Greek.
It makes you hear the original context.
So I'm going to read it.
So that keras, who is one of those,
so that the grace, superior to all things,
he just totally changes the translation.
But this is what it really says.
So that keras, who is one of those
that are superior to all things,
should be thought to drop her own blood
into that cup through means of his invocation.
And that thus those who are present
should be led to rejoice to taste that cup.
In order that, by so doing,
keras, who is set forth by this magi,
may also flow into them.
And again, handing mixed cups to the women,
he bids them consecrate these in his presence.
When this has been done,
he himself produces another cup of much larger size
than that which the diluted women have consecrated
and pouring from the smaller consecrated by the women
into that which has been brought forth.
He's explaining how he drugs them and stuff, whatever he does.
He has a sleight of hand going on.
He's got a small cup and a big cup.
The drugs are in the small cup and when they're not looking,
he dips it.
He's drugging these girls.
This is wild.
By the way, I just want to stop here
just to give you some context.
His student that he succeeded,
and it's in this text somewhere
where he says that this is a successor of Valentinus.
I think it's in the chapter before this where he says that.
He's a student of Valentinus
who was the second highest bishop in Rome
in the 150s of the Common Era.
140s, actually, I'm sorry, 140s.
So Valentinus had the second highest amount of votes
to become the bishop of Rome
and if that would have happened, he would be on your list.
I got my Catholic Bible right here.
If you open up your Catholic Bible,
it's got the list of succession of popes.
He's almost on this list.
Now, I know some scholars will say
but they weren't popes in the beginning.
The bishop of Rome didn't have that much power.
I don't care. I'm looking at this list
and I see Higanus
and I see Telusforus
and I see Pius from 140 to 155.
Pius is the guy.
I think it was either Higanus or Pius.
I think it was Higanus, 136 to 140.
So it was even earlier than I thought.
This is even earlier than I thought.
This is in the 130s.
Higanus is on the list.
Higanus is the guy that beat Valentinus out
for votes by a couple of votes.
I'm telling you, it was only a couple of votes.
That's what the sources say.
Now, just let that sink in.
The successor to that guy
whose church almost became the church of Rome
very close.
At least he would have been steering the ship a little bit more
in his own direction.
Who knows? We don't know.
We don't know what would have happened.
Maybe nothing would have happened. Who knows?
I'm just saying. That's what would have happened.
So he says this.
This is that guy.
And by the way, Marcosians are known to be
the biggest church in France
in the second and third century
after this guy.
So it says, pouring from the smaller one,
consecrated by the women
into that which has been brought forward by himself,
made that carousel
who is before all things
who transcends all knowledge and speech,
fill your inner man
and multiply in you
her own knowledge by sowing
the grain of mustard seed in you
as in good soil.
Repeating certain other like words
and thus goading on the wretched woman
to madness, he then appears
a worker of wonders.
So they're tripping balls off this stuff
and they're probably seeing visions
of Christ and Mary or whatever.
He's probably saying, see
it's my Eucharist.
Told you.
And that's how he does it.
So they basically talk about it.
Then he says, it appears probable enough
that this man possesses a demon
as his familiar spirit
by means of whom he seems
able to prophecy.
Basically, he's pulling off
this guy's admitting
that whatever this guy's doing
is working.
And also enables as many as he counts
worthy to be partakers
of his carousel themselves
to prophecy.
He devotes himself especially to women
and those such who are well-bred
and elegantly attired and have great
well, who he frequently seeks
to draw after him
by addressing them in such seductive
words as these.
I am eager to make you a partaker
of my grace, carousel.
Since the Father of all
does continually behold your angel
before his face.
Now the place of your angel is among us
these are his words.
This is a quote from him.
Let me start that over. This is a quote from Marcus.
I am eager to make you
partake of my carousel
since the Father of all
does continually behold your angel
before his face.
Whatever that means.
Now the place of your angel is among us.
Behooves us to become one.
Receive first from me
and by the gift of
carousel.
Adorn yourself as a bride
who is expecting her bridegroom
that you may be what I am
and what you are.
Establish the germ of light
in your nuptial chamber.
Receive from me a spouse
and become receptive of him.
While you are received by him
behold carousel
who has descended upon you.
Open your mouth in prophecy
and the woman replying
I have never at any time
prophesied nor do I know how to
prophecy. Then
engaging for the second time
in certain invocations
as to astound his deluded victim
he says to her
open your mouth speak
whatsoever occurs to you
and you shall prophecy
since then vainly puffed up
and elated by these words
and greatly excited in soul
by the expectation that is
herself who is the prophecy
her heart beating violently
by the way shout out to Hippolytus
for writing this this is good shit
her heart beating violently from emotion
reaches though requisite
pitch of audacity
and idly
as well as impudently utter some
nonsense as it happens
to occur to her such as might
be expected from one huge from an empty spirit
referring to this one superior
to me has observed
that the soul is both audacious
and impudent when heated
with empty air
henceforth she reckons herself
a prophetess
I wonder what I want to think about the heated part
henceforth she reckons herself as a prophetess
and expresses her thanks
to Marcus for having imparted
to her of his own carousel
she then makes the effort
to reward him not only by the gift
of her possessions in which he has
collected a large very fortune
by the way there's probably some truth to this
because like I said he goes on to start
the biggest church in all of
France he basically brings
Christianity to the Gauls
basically he's like
he's like known for that
then it says but already
some of the most faithful women
possessed of the fear of God and not
being deceived
but abhorring
and excreting him have withdrawn
from such vile company of revelers
this they have done as being well aware
that the gift of prophecy
whoops what did I just do
oh here we go
so it is not conferred on men by Marcus the magician
Marcus the magus
but that only those to whom
God sends his grace
from above possesses the vile inspire
so he's talking shit you know
last thing I wanted to show on this part
by here
he says Marcus compounds filters
and love potions
this guy loves drugs and purple shit right
and it says in order
to insult the persons of some
of these women if not all of them
those of them who have returned
to the church of God I think frequently
occurs have acknowledged
confessing to that they have been
defiled by him
wow and that they were filled
with a burning passion
towards him
a sad example of this
occur in the case of a certain
Asiatic one of our deacons
who had received him
why are they all getting tricked by him if he's so evil
how are they all going back to him all the time
but something's going on here
who had received him into his house
his wife
a woman of remarkable beauty
fell a victim both in mind and beauty to this magician
and for a long time
traveled about with him
at last with no small difficulty
the brethren had converted her
she spent her whole time in exercise
public confession blah blah blah
but yeah anyways he's a magus
he makes a lot of drugs
he says and they say it's hurt that they themselves
know more than all others
and that they alone have imbided the greatness
of the gnosis of the knowledge
of what is unspeakable
the mysteries
but what I think
when I'm reading something like this
this shows me
even though Hippolytus
who was writing this 50 years later
he's writing this 50 years later
Hippolytus is not a primary source
to
oh he's a primary source that we're reading him
but he's not a primary
witness to these events
he's writing about stuff that happened 50 years before him
so when I read this
and I think Hippolytus is looking back
at the time of Christianity
happening in the 130s
130s of the common era
130s and 140s
and this is a time where Christianity is looking
way different
and that's what this tells me
the Christians who were in charge
and running the churches
were doing way different shit
and it was way more mystery like
a lot more Eucharists
and baptisms and as you can see here
this guy is going his own extra route
there's a couple of drugs to the Eucharists
I'm not sure how many other churches are doing that
I mean
I would guess maybe there's more than one
just saying
what do you think about that
yeah
you found them
everybody put your hands up
the cops are all outside
you found them
you got them surrounded
good FBI job
real quick
but there's a mystery
so one of
this is actually one of Diogenes students
I have this text right here from Diogenes
and one of his students
his name Theodorus
there's a story about this guy Theodorus
and one day Theodorus
was sitting beside a herofant
Euraclades
and he says tell me Euraclades
who are those
who violate the mysteries
and when the herofant replied
those who reveal them
to the uninitiated
Theodorus then said
you know he's learned from Diogenes
how to be slick
he says then you yourself
are violating them when you expound them
to the uninitiated
because you have to reveal the mysteries to the uninitiated
in order to initiate them
and this is what it says after that
he would hardly have escaped
from being hauled in front of the court
of Areopagos
but if Demetrius of Philarion
had not come to his rescue
there's Demetrius popping up in that history books again
he's everywhere
bravo bravo hit the clip
show these people set it up
look what you found this is like a
this is an expose that Neal's got going on
I'm serious this is like huge
renaissance
business
do you think
is your clip on the bottom play or do I have to play my own
my own
most scholars would say
the Moses tradition probably started
being written down in the
700s
maybe the late
800s BCE
they are probably writing the Moses stories down
sometime in the 700s BCE
what would you say to that
okay so when I hear
a claim of that
sort of or any claim about
when let's say a biblical text was written
the first question
that I'll ask is
how do you know that
and I expect
an answer that's compelling
the answer can't be
well most scholars
think that whatever
I will continue and I will ask
well how do these scholars know that
in good
historical work
you need to show
evidence for any claim that you make
I'm simply trying to put
on the table
what it is that we know
what it is that we don't know
I look backwards in time
start with the first century of the common era
and go backwards to the first century
before the common era
to the second century before the common era
to the third century before the common era
prior to this time
the trail of evidence ends
we no longer find archaeological evidence
or textural evidence
which point to widespread
observance of the Torah
or in fact any kind of observance
of the Torah in actuality
the fact that we don't have any references
to any of the biblical texts
stories, laws
did it pause? I didn't pause it
I could continue with
though I got the clip right here
go ahead it's probably on our end
alright because the last part
is pretty good
was it playing?
down in the 700
or textural evidence
which point to widespread
observance of the Torah
or in fact any kind of observance
of the Torah in actuality
the fact that we don't have any references
to any of the biblical
texts, stories, laws
the fact that we have
practices which go against
which contravene
the Torah law
for example we find
images of Athena
these are copies of
Greek coins
we find them being minted in Judea
with
the term, the name Yehud
the name of the Judean province
I find
in my discussions with scholars
often times people just
they don't get what I'm doing
right to me it seems so obvious
but it's not
clear to them
that this is a
question that we can
look into and
investigate and think about
what are ordinary people doing
to me it's the simplest question
of all the earliest evidence
that we have for the
Torah being observed
is from the middle of the 2nd
century before the coming of Europe
αυτοφύμι
He goes far better than
GAD Barney goes
now the reason why this interview
is a little bit different
and it has better information I think
because it's worse
than we thought, it's worse than I thought
because here and we didn't even
talk about this but it's in his book
he writes this in his book
no circumcision
Two moct Weekly was married and two months afterwards, she said it wasn't the same��
You know
We'll but they told us the same date
She's and now she is
OurHo
You're
S
Star
Far
7
K
22
20
30
55
な
beaches
Come
period it's not just the tour i was not just played out other people are writing no most no more is a popular
thing to write now he says this no circumcision no synagogues
they're they're eating pork they're eating shellfish they're sacrificing to other gods they're making images
of greek and pagan and egyptian gods all over the place no lovely no mention like
Λοιπόν, είναι σαν να μην... Αυτό το μέρος που μας λέμε Ισραλ είναι έναν άλλο μετατρονικό μέρος όπως κάθε άλλο μέρος του μετατρονικού κόσμου.
Αντί όχι το 300, όχι το 1.50 μέρος, το 1.50 μέρος το BC, αυτό είναι όταν ξεκινούν να ξεκινούν και να αλλάξουν τη διάσταση τους,
στον έναν Τωρα. Αυτό είναι όταν ξεκινούν. Αυτό είναι όχι πιο σαν να μην ξεκινούν.
Το μέρος της 2ης Σέντρυς BC είναι ό,τι λέει.
Πριν αυτό, είναι όλοι όλοι οι παιδίες πιέντες, όπως όλοι άλλοι.
Έχουν μία μοτοσυκλέτα για όλοι όλοι άλλοι.
Γιατί είναι αυτό πιο σαν να πιέντες ότι είναι καλύτερο. Αν είναι ακριβά, πιέντες ότι είναι καλύτερο.
Και microphone because he's got it's better for me...
...και και καλύτερο, δ earth.
We have to treat this part of the world as like holy and sacred.
It's like no it's just nother Mediterranean land like everyone else.
So I say worst for,...
...τουρρός, στιςμοδιοστη rest Strike, μ verdict...
...όω,件事情 1200.
και ο Δεύς Πανατουρής καιồ για αγαπά στην Θεή Зд ediyor restricted αυτό rebels all that all happen by the way there is not one mention of Josiah anywhere outside
Could you answer it all?
Was it refreshing to get somebody who's standard was evidence, right?
The theology and all that stuff, no that stuff matters, right?
The dude is digging in the dirt by the way somebody just sent me an article that they
found a ring, a gold ring, and hypha.
And it had the imprint of Minerva on it, right?
Θα ήθελα να γνωρίζω τι είχα σκέψει.
Είχα σκέψει και έγινε ότι είσαι πραγματικά.
Είχα σκέψει καλύτερα.
Δεν υπήρχε Μόζος.
Αυτή η στιγμή που έγινε was there.
Δεν υπήρχε Μόζος.
Είναι ένα τελευταίο δημιουργείο.
Λοιπόν, ναι.
Λοιπόν, κάποιες βιβλότητες θα γνωρίζουν να γνωρίζουν
ότι Μόζος...
Τι σημαίνει ότι Μόζος δεν είναι around 450 BCE.
Είναι πολύ δύσκολο στην their opinion.
Αλλά δεν είναι around 450 BCE.
Και έχουν Αθήνα στον their coin.
Δεν έχουν Μόζος στον their coin.
Έχουμε Άμβριο Λέγκη στον our coins.
Δεν έχουν Μόζος και Αμβριχάνο στον their money.
Έχουν Αθήνα και Ζούς στον their money.
Ζούς, κομμάτιχε τον fucking Eagle.
Και they've worshiped the zodiac of Ion.
Λοιπόν, they do.
It's in the synagogues.
They're sitting there, right?
By the way, synagogues is a Greek word.
You've got to think about that for a minute.
You know what I mean?
It's amazing.
Have you, as you're doing all this research,
and as you're pulling down all of the views of the late Bronze Age
and then down Iron and then finally the classical Greece,
are you getting some kind of picture of movements of people
in this, you know, basically a sea-based world, right?
And you've got movements of people throughout this area.
And some of those people are going through the, you know,
what you call Judea, right?
Or Palestine, people are going through them.
Those people have Greek.
They do have, there's Greek blood all over the place.
There's Greek genetics all over.
Even the Phoenician punics are Mediterranean to the core.
I mean, they have a different language.
They're Semitic people, of course.
They're using the same alphabet,
but they have their own way of,
they have their own, I guess you could say,
it's like a font if you think about it.
Because it's all the same alphabet.
It's the alpha-beta.
But they have their own pantheon of equivalents,
of chronos, of Zeus,
and they have, they have all their,
they have Ashmon, who they say,
and this, there's actually,
they have a, we found a bilingual text.
It's in, it's half punic and half Greek or Latin.
It's Latin, actually.
Is it Latin?
I think it is.
It's one of those two.
But one of them has a donus
and the other one has Ashmon.
And it's like, so that you could see
how they're like equating those gods together.
Anyways, but it's a bilingual text.
It's like the, it's like the, um,
but I wanted to mention to them
about the Dan, the Dan in the beginning of that clip.
They always say this.
We, we, we scholars think that Moses
was being written down around the 700s.
Why?
This is what I want to know.
Why 700s?
Why not 900s?
Why not a thousand?
Because it's the same thing to me.
You're just guessing.
You're just making shit up with no evidence
and just going, it's possible.
That Moses just slipped through the cracks
and that no one figured out who he was
until the Hellenistic period.
And that all, there's only a small group of,
of, of elitist people in Jerusalem
who wrote about Moses.
Why are they writing about Moses
and not telling anybody?
What the hell is the point of that?
It's a very, it's a very weird.
So it's me and Derek.
We're talking about this.
We're calling it the Torah of the gaps argument.
You ever heard of the God of the gaps argument?
So people who, people who wrote about Moses
So people who, people who try to argue
about like God being in control of everything
will say like, oh, they used to think
rain was sent by the gods.
Now they know rain is, is, you know,
is caused by condensation or whatever.
And so like God kind of moves back into the areas
that we don't know where he is, right?
So now it's just like, he's outside of space and time.
Monism, right?
They do the same thing for the Torah.
Wherever we, if we look for the Torah,
we'll look for evidence of the Torah
or stories about Moses or just anybody
writing about Moses or Abraham or anything.
Just mentioning Abraham or Noah.
You can't find it.
It's just not there.
So it becomes this thing of,
it becomes this argument of the Torah of the gaps
where we can't find them.
The average Joe doesn't know who Moses is.
The farmer doesn't know who Moses is.
The soldiers don't know who Moses is.
So it must just be some really small priestly class
sitting up in Jerusalem by themselves,
writing legends for nobody but themselves.
It sounds crazy.
It does.
It does.
And that was the only beef I had with your guest.
Was that he said, you got to realize,
and as soon as you hear him generalizing, you know,
they're going to mess up.
By the way, the best scholars can fall into this trap.
So I'm not saying this dude is an excellent scholar.
He sounds like it to me.
Yeah.
And I was really impressed with how he handled evidence.
So, but when he's generalized,
and it's easy to step in this trap,
when he generalized and was talking about,
well, you know, in antiquity,
books were just for the elite, right?
And you had to have a lot of money
and a lot of hoo-ha and a lot of education.
Anyway, when we say that, I thought,
what do you think that gymnasia were?
They were teaching people a homework.
A theater.
You explain your kids to school
to learn Homer's grammar.
What do you mean?
There were 50,000,
50,000 scrolls
in the Alexandrian library.
Who do you think is reading all those scrolls?
You think it's just a few elite people?
That's an old argument
that I've heard in classics for the longest time.
But here's the thing though.
And it doesn't stand up.
I totally am fine with the idea
that only a very select can read and write.
Even if that's the case, let's grant that.
Fine.
It doesn't matter
because they can still tell the stories to people.
So you still have the theater,
you still have Homer being played out
as a song for people who can't read and write
to listen to.
So even if that's true,
that only a small certain people can read and write,
it doesn't mean they're not going to be able
to tell people's stories.
People want to know stories.
People are sitting around at campfires every single night.
They don't do anything else.
So if there's a legend somewhere about some hero,
they're going to want to know about it.
There's no way that's not going to get out there.
It just doesn't make sense at all
that people would secretly have their own little secret clicks
of legend writing.
That just doesn't make any sense.
No, no.
And let's remember it's not all the Greeks
because the Spartans were the...
was their Greek bad,
but they tried to outlaw stuff like theatrical performances
and reading and stuff like that.
The Spartans were far more like modern evangelicals
than the evangelicals realized.
If you think about how their culture was
and how they viewed people in the world,
what their big view was, you want to say world view.
Yeah, and you want to think about why things
mean that they do because the Spartans
are the ones who were into that.
Right?
What you're talking about is the Spartans...
You're going to laugh.
Josephus has a letter, a supposed letter
from the king of the Spartans,
writing to the king or the high priest or somebody
to the Jews.
I can't remember who.
But it's preserved in Josephus
and the king of the Spartans tells the Jews
we're all sons of Abraham together.
I figured you'd laugh at that from what you just said.
There's no way.
Yeah.
That's good.
That's good.
I like that.
I like that.
Yeah.
And it fits.
You know, it fits.
But we Athenians, we're not going to do that.
We've got things like democracy
and that's a big deal to us.
I thought it was a fantastic interview.
I thought you did a fantastic job.
Was there anything from it
that you just wanted to say,
hey, it's also important
that he was able to show me this
because obviously he moved your timeline down.
You lost like a century off of Jewish history.
It's like, well, then go back that far.
It just wasn't around.
You know what, it makes me realize
because if this is true,
that people are like, let's put this timeline together.
Judaism did not exist before 300 BC.
Just did not exist.
There is no such thing as Judaism before that.
Everyone's polytheistic.
You get these texts put together
at this time around the 300s,
around the early 370 to 300, whatever.
And then it sits there
and it's just sort of like,
it just belongs to a certain group of Alexandrian Jews
who are interested in this stuff
and then Jerusalem might take it back to their city
and they had these texts.
The average person is not reading that text yet.
Not right away.
It takes a century and a half
for people to start knowing about this Torah.
And it's like, finally, all of a sudden,
according to the evidence of the archaeology,
in the 150s,
and it actually makes sense that it's the 150s
because it's right after the Hasmonean revolt.
And the Hasmonean revolt,
according to the text itself,
makes it clear that there was a huge conservative push
in Judea to follow only Yahweh
and to follow the Mosaic law.
So it's finally around the 150s BCE
when Judaism becomes a thing.
And then, only 150 years later, Jesus is born.
Christianity is not that far off from Judaism.
Most people think Judaism
is like thousands of years before Christianity.
No, they're like almost a century apart from each other.
It's it.
They come at the same time.
Yeah.
Just like the worship of Aten.
And the monism in Egypt in the 14th BC.
You can see Mediterranean society was free of monism
until the first, second, late second, or first.
What date would you put it at?
When does the monism...
You know what?
You're not going to like this,
but I read a lot of pre-socratics shit.
Those pre-socratics flirted with monism,
but not in the monotheistic way.
Yeah.
Just in a sense that they believe,
and this is very Platonic,
Plato thought this too.
And some of the pre-socratics before Plato
were...
Phales is one of these.
The archae, the one, the first one,
the prince, the highest, the one, the hen.
And they thought that there was this one
above all the cosmos.
And this one produces, you know,
eros from the chaos.
And then you get...
So they still accept Hesiod.
They still accept Homer.
But what they're doing is they're saying
that these gods are under some one.
So that idea, that monism idea,
to me, starts around the 6th century BCE,
where you get monism.
And I think it's a pre-socratic idea.
But like I said, it's not in the way that people are...
Not in the way that it's done by
Judeans and Christians in the 1st century.
They take monism, they put it on steroids.
Because the pre-socratics were very specific about the one.
There is no...
You and I don't even talk to this one.
We have demons in between.
We cannot talk to the one.
It's way beyond our comprehension.
This is what Heraclitus would say, or Paraminides.
Okay.
So if you're tracing it,
if you're tracing it through the Greek pre-socratics,
doesn't it make sense
that the Septuagint is the original language?
These people are coming through Alexandria,
being educated in Greek and Alexandria.
Doesn't it make much more historical sense
that Hebrew is not the original language,
but is a Greek work that's filtering through Greek ideas
that you just pointed out.
The influence of Mother Greek was so great
that Hebrew was nothing then.
It was nothing.
It was liturgical.
It was gone.
As a matter of fact,
I don't think we can even say it was liturgical anymore.
Because if you're saying Judaism gets here,
starts being practiced as a monist religion
in the 2nd or 1st century,
we have to say those traditions are fake.
They didn't have any traditions.
That's when they bring back Hebrew
and they start writing in Hebrew at that time.
Because they're writing in Greek before that.
Right.
No, and they're speaking Greek.
All Greek names.
Aristotle is a Greek name.
Aristotle is like reformers.
You know what I mean?
People don't understand.
They think Jews and Alexandria
were all reactive against Hellenism.
They weren't.
There's plenty of the population
that had been speaking Greek
and raised Greek
and had access to Greek education
that you don't need.
You don't need another class of people to follow it.
You've got other people who are supporting it.
But monism is an idea
that seems to have been played around with
by the pre-Socratic Greeks.
The Platonists and Plato himself
in his nomoi, in his laws,
wrote about the gymnasium being a place of evil.
You can tell this is Plato's lateness like
an old loser.
Because you read Plato's earlier works.
I love early Plato.
And the symposium is amazing.
You're writing about eros and love and Dionysus.
But this later Plato,
almost sexuality is wicked, evil.
You need to get rid of it.
The gymnasium needs to be eradicated.
He's turning into a conservative full blown.
And those ideas, I think,
and so does Gamerkin think,
that's what you get with...
I think Judaism is being influenced by Platonism.
That's what I think is happening.
I think it's Platonism on steroids.
You know, I think some great thinkers
would think alike.
Like Nietzsche would say the same thing.
They saw that classical origin,
that classical font.
And when people realize,
oh, your religion goes back to this...
Hey, by the way,
and this is my next question.
People are going to say
that you are crazy
if you start showing them that
Judaism began
as late as the 2nd and 1st.
What are you going to do?
What are you going to do?
I'm going to do exactly what
Yonatan Edler said when I asked him...
When I paraphrased what
Dan said,
700.
I'm going to say, how do you know that?
Show me the evidence.
Look, we have evidence of...
We know what it looks like.
We know what archeological sites look like.
We know there is people in Egypt
doing circumcision.
We even know there's other places
doing circumcision,
like up in the north.
And I think Assyria,
they're doing certain types of it.
So this practice is around,
but they're not doing it in Judea
all the way up until 150s.
Nobody's doing it.
And that's one of the most important laws
according to the story of Abraham.
7th day, your child should be circumcised.
And they're not doing it.
And they're eating pork.
And they're worshiping other gods.
And they're minting coins
with Athena on it.
So my thing would be is,
show me where people are starting
to show knowledge of the Torah.
And the answer to that question
is the evidence shows it's somehow...
It happens sometime in the 3rd to 2nd century BC.
Period.
You just can't find evidence
and any other claim,
like when Dan says,
all confident,
we scholars all think
that it happened in the 700s.
Why not 1300 BC then?
What's the difference?
Because your evidence is exactly the same.
There's no fucking difference
between 700 and 900, 950, 1370.
You're just making shit up.
Why 700s?
And it's all...
It is weird.
I know he's a Mormon.
It is odd that in the Mormon tradition,
there's a prophet.
One of the prophets,
I think it's Nehi or whatever.
Nehi or Lehi.
I don't even know.
I don't know how to study that shit at all.
It's totally off my radar.
I have no idea what I'm talking about.
So I'm just going to give a little warning.
I have no idea what I'm saying.
But I do know that that prophet
supposedly lived in the 700s in Egypt.
So it makes sense
that Moses had to have been around in the 700s
because my prophet needs to hear about Moses
or else the whole thing blows up.
So there's a theological reason
why he wants to push them into the 700s.
Notice how he threw in that little...
Maybe 800s?
Why did you say that?
What made you say that?
What happened in your brain
that made you say maybe 800s?
Is there some sort of evidence in the 800s
that we can look at?
No.
You just said that randomly.
It's just so odd.
You know what that is?
That's that funny burning feeling
you get in your nethers
when you're in the back alley
and you're like...
That little touch that he had
is maybe a little bit early.
You just...
Look, you could have said that
for 500 years,
either way of your mark
and with the same assurance.
You know what I mean?
And that's why when he said
about the Christ thing,
he said preposterous,
that is the act of the...
It's not cowardice.
It's projecting a confidence
that will float your point.
You don't care about evidence.
The guy that you interviewed,
that dude has obviously built his career
on evidence and handling evidence.
Look at this.
Yeah, this is what we need.
Look at Lehi from the Book of Mormon.
He lived 600...
So 7th century BC.
So think about it.
He needs Moses to be around
in the 700s or the 7th century BC
for this to work.
If Moses is not around before Lehi,
Mormonism is dead.
Dead in the water, gone.
It's impossible.
For his random guy living in Jerusalem
to be one of the few people
who knows who Moses is.
You know what I mean?
So that's all I'm just saying.
The guy, he claims to be a descendant of Joseph.
He's making shit up.
What's the difference between this
and saying, I don't know,
the Torah existed in 900 BC.
Why not?
They're both the same claim.
They both have no evidence.
They're just baseless claims.
It's all it is.
And you can get away with it, right?
Because this is what you do
as a monist religion.
You have to re-educate people
into a history that you've crafted.
That's what monism does,
is it tries to hijack culture
by splitting the timeline into another...
You're in another mental world
and you think this is your history.
Imagine how many Jewish people
across the planet...
Imagine how they would have to come to grips.
I mean, what would the thinking be?
What if I just found out?
I thought my culture was ancient.
Ancient, ancient was the bedrock
and foundation of the 10 commandments.
And now I find out a bunch of Greeks
were moving through this part of the Mediterranean
and bumped up against the Phoenicians there, right?
And by the way, for those of you who like Phoenician,
how much literature was left behind?
Not much.
You know what? Mother Greek killed you, too.
Right?
By the way, another claim that's made, too,
is that some of the stuff
that they find in these older Babylonian myths
that make their way into the Old Testament,
they use that as sort of like a way to leverage...
Oh, it's really old because it's got these texts.
But those texts, those very same texts,
are also cited by Greeks living in the Hellenistic era.
So those texts, that argument's dead
because those texts are still around
in the same time periods that we're talking about.
So you can't... That doesn't make it older.
Those texts are older, but the texts are still around
in later times.
People still don't know how to read and write in Cuneiform
up until I think 100 A.D.
was when Cuneiform dies finally.
So people still knew...
There was one of the scribes of Alexander the Great using Cuneiform.
Say, today, King Alexander has died.
We have that.
So that's another nonsense thing.
The other one, the point, too, is like, there's a character...
And this is what Kipp was saying to me.
And this is a good point, Kipp made.
He wrote it from the Bible.
Balaam, son of Pior, the prophet.
And they found...
They actually did find a text inscribed on a wall
where this guy's mentioned.
And it's in some sort of building that existed
probably in the 7th, 6th century BC, something like that.
Now, that to me is interesting
because, okay, now we have a prophet
who's mentioned in older texts that makes his way into the older...
into a newer text.
But his name, Homer,
should be dated to 1350 BC
because Agamemnon's in the story.
Agamemnon is a Mycenaean king
whose place in history at the time of the Trojan War,
which is way back in the Bronze Age.
So characters existing in a text later...
If there was more of that going on,
I would be more convinced,
but just having one guy to...
One or two guys to point to...
This is not enough for me, you know?
I saw...
I saw that you were looking into the medical texts there
and wandering through.
And I wanted to ask you,
why is it that we have medical texts from Egypt?
We have medical texts from Rome
and we have medical texts from Greece.
And Greece has by far the most, right?
The most advanced stuff, right?
The Sanskrit has some medical texts too.
Real medical.
Why is it that we don't have any
Ascan, Umbrian,
or Hebrew medical texts?
The very same reason.
People think that Hebrew was actually spoken
when Jesus Christ was walking around.
They were like Shalom, Jesus.
He was like Shalom, right?
No.
In Hebrew, they didn't have Aramaic.
They had Greek.
And people say, oh, the apostles that wrote
the, you know, the gospels and whatnot,
that those people were...
Originally they speak Hebrew.
They didn't want to go home from their lunch break, right?
They speak Hebrew.
That's a joke.
That's a joke.
Those are all native speakers.
I'm telling you, 35 years of reading Greek,
I'm telling you, those are all native speakers.
Your little theory about there being Hebrew there
is a giant joke.
But it's part, it's not funny because it's meant
to alter that historical timeline.
So that people in the future will think,
oh, this was the past.
No, it wasn't as Neil showed tonight.
The stuff didn't even show up until the second, bro.
Which makes sense.
Do you understand the powder that you just uncovered?
This is real powder.
This is the good stuff because Jesus is not that far
then from the very origin of Judaism,
from the very earliest, monest Jewish cult.
Jesus is only a century, century half away.
That's amazing.
That's absolutely amazing.
Yeah, some of the Greek texts that I'm reading,
some of the translations that I'm reading,
from Loeb, for example, what is Polybius and Celest,
they cite Punic texts that are lost.
But so the Punic had a writing culture.
The Punic is just another word for Phoenician.
It's like Latin word for Phoenician.
The Punics, the Carthaginians and the Phoenicians,
they did have a writing culture,
and they did write philosophical, medical,
and they wrote agricultural stuff.
But we lost it all.
The only way we have it is from people like Polybius and Celest,
citing it.
So they write about people like Mago,
as one of these Carthaginian writers,
as a couple other ones.
So they did have somewhat of a literate culture
going on in the seafaring Phoenician world.
But you're right.
In Hebrew, it's like a black hole of,
there's no grammarians that you don't have.
You have grammarians in Latin,
you have grammarians in Greek,
you have grammarians in Sanskrit.
They're very literate,
these are very literate cultures writing about writing.
Writing about letters,
writing about writing.
But you can't find something like that.
All we have is biblical text.
And then when you get to the Dead Sea Scrolls,
that's when you find like, oh, you know,
laws for the community.
That's it.
You find stuff like that,
and then there's a big black hole,
and then you go all the way back to Ugarit.
So in between Ugarit and the Old Testament,
there's like a big black hole
where all you get is inscriptions.
But you also have Elephantine,
and Elephantine, it's Aramaic.
No, they're Jews.
They call themselves Judeans.
They fled the wrath of the Assyrians.
And so we do have some stuff,
but all of it points to not knowing who Moses is,
not knowing who Abraham is,
and being a part of the regular Mediterranean world
like everyone else.
I like how you said it.
You just brought it all together and said,
look, this is the Mediterranean, baby.
And they're just developing.
It's not that there aren't cultural Jews, right?
Ethnic Jews, but they aren't practicing Judaism.
They're not separating themselves off
from the rest of the world like people think they do.
Yeah.
And that's a beautiful thing to know.
Yeah.
It is.
People should know that.
And I know a lot of people
that I interacted with in Israel,
and by the way,
your guest, I think, was involved in the dig
at Tel Magyta, right?
Yes, yes.
So that's really cool.
That's heads up.
I salute, right?
You might have walked into it in the 90s.
When were you there?
Yeah, 91.
I was there in 91.
Yeah, he probably was there.
I bet he probably didn't remember me
because I was just a dirt mover, you know what I mean?
But I could tell him.
He'll remember if because of the floor,
because of the temple floor that our group found.
He'll remember.
I'll tell him.
I was with them.
Love it.
Love it.
I want to ask you though, as you peel back this layer,
you're going to be dealing now with scholars of the Bible
who are going to have that mindset that,
oh, the prophet Isaiah, this is Iron Age,
this is the kingdom of David,
kingdom of this and that, for which there's nothing, right?
What are you going to do in order to push that knowledge forward?
Like if you're a part of the museum
and you're trying to push it forward, what do you do?
Do you just make documentaries
and just kind of try to expose the real history?
What do you do?
That's what I said.
So my last time I was on this channel
was probably over a month ago,
and I said that in the next couple of days
I was dropping that video
and then responding to some of the stuff
that happened in the Dan and Danny video.
And I didn't lie about that.
That video's been done for over,
for like weeks and weeks and weeks.
But the reason why I haven't dropped it yet
is because I wanted to drop this video first
because I used some of the clips for the video.
Does that make sense?
So you're going to see when I dropped the video
on my response to some of the stuff
that Dan McLellan was saying on Danny's show,
which I thought was just a complete shit show,
to be honest.
First of all, the Lucian thing was kind of crazy,
not knowing Lucian.
That's the main source for Syrian religion.
What does that text call?
A Syrian goddess.
That's Lucian's work.
And that's one of the biggest texts
that we'll go to for Arabian
and Syrian religion of the Levant.
Because that's like all we have
other than the inscription of the ideology.
So you can't be an expert in religions
and not in all Lucian.
You have to know Lucian.
That was like, whoa.
And then he's being shown,
he's being shown the Hilaria.
And any Roman religion expert
knows all about Hilaria.
This isn't some like back alley,
random thing that you find in one text.
Hilaria is all over the place.
And when he's being shown the Hilaria,
his face, he goes like this.
He does that.
He goes, huh?
Like he's never seen it before.
And this is like,
read Mary Beards book, Roman religion.
By the way, how does he not know this?
Anyone who studies ancient religion,
you've got to know Mary Beards book, at least.
It's one of those introduction books.
You agree with me on that.
It's one of those introduction books
that you have to have.
Yeah, yeah, no.
I used to teach the course class.
Classical religion.
And I use your textbook.
I totally disagree with her on some things.
Oh, me too.
I use your textbook.
Yeah.
And I agree with you on that.
But here's the thing though.
She talks about the Hilaria
in comparison to Easter,
just like you and I do.
Because it's just like, why wouldn't you?
There's so many parallels.
And she stays out of her lane
and she doesn't study Hebrew Bible
in the New Testament.
So she doesn't make conclusions
and says one's copying the other.
All she's doing is pointing out,
whoa, look at this Hilaria festival.
Well, they celebrate a death
and resurrection of a God.
Cool.
That's it.
She just gives you the facts
when you do what you want with it.
But Dan, when he's being showed
this information,
he tilts his head and goes, huh?
That's not right.
Dude, how do you not know
about the Hilaria?
And to not know about the Hilaria
is a big deal
because you make it your business
to refute anybody
who tries to argue about, you know,
a paganism influencing Christianity,
which I get that there's a lot
of really bad information online.
A lot of people who just are like
making shit up about Horus,
having 12 disciples
and being crucified.
That didn't happen in the sources.
But at the end of the day,
there are some legitimate parallels
and there are legitimate sources
that people do need to know about
because it's fascinating stuff.
And he's out there, like,
putting his foot down,
saying there's nothing here,
dying and rising gods don't exist.
This is all made up nonsense.
Anybody who talks about this
doesn't know that.
And it's like, if you don't even know
what the Hilaria is,
then why are you even talking
about James Frazier?
Because that's like half
of James Frazier's book.
Hilaria is all...
That's like a...
Not half of his book,
but that's like 10% of his book
has to do with Addis and the Hilaria.
So it's like, how do you not know...
If you don't know Hilaria,
then why are you even talking
about James Frazier?
Because you obviously
never read James Frazier.
You just...
Now you're just making
shit up at this point.
So you'll see.
I'm getting all fired up about it.
But I got some stuff to say.
I got some stuff to say.
Look at how fired up you get.
Everybody in Satanic congregation,
that's fired up, right?
For those sources.
Because you're just
protecting those sources.
I totally...
I love that.
I love that.
I want to ask you
one last question
that's pressing.
I want to know
once you bring this to people,
their response is going to be
because it's always been
something's wrong with you, right?
The reason I was going to tell you
the reason that people still think
the Old Testament
or the Torah was originally written
in Hebrew is only
because of that first BC
and first AD culture
that was coming up,
that was creating that
modest propaganda, right?
If the text is only as old
as the third century,
it means all of those claims
about the land
and about who it belongs to,
all of those are created.
Those are not historical actualities.
That's the creation
of the third or second century, yeah.
You don't even know how right you are
because if you're looking at this,
it's just a historical thing.
Israel existed
at the time of Nebuchadnezzar
and we know this
because Nebuchadnezzar
brags about taking over Israel.
They get stomped out.
They lose their kingdom
and then they're subject to
whoever's in power,
whether it be the Assyrians,
the Babylonians,
the Persians,
the Greeks,
the Seleucids, the Ptolemies
and they're just kind of waiting there.
It's not until the Hasmonean period
as we mentioned
after the Maccabeean revolt
where Israel finally gets
their own state back
around 164 BC.
So it makes sense.
Like you said, there's no like,
they don't own anything.
They're just people that live there.
They don't own anything
and then they do end up
getting their state at that time
but like,
literally less than a century later,
they're being stacked by Pompey already.
Done.
They lose their own.
They don't even hold it
for 100 years.
63 BCE.
The Maccabeean revolt was in 164.
That's 100 years.
But even before,
you're right.
The point you're making about
who owns what,
that's such a muddy waters,
gray area
because there really is no ownership
over anything.
You're just people that live there.
You know what I mean?
They're all getting sacked, right?
By the big powers in the area.
Right?
It's all of that movement of power.
Hera the great
is making deals with the Romans
saying, we'll be your client state.
We'll watch your borders for you.
Just make sure you take care of us
and send us the needs
that we need.
You know, send us troops
so we need it.
And that's what happened.
It's almost like in America today,
how we support Israel.
That's how the Romans were for Israel
for a while.
Yeah.
Until Nero.
And then Nero changed that.
But then they went back to
doing what they were doing again,
back to your client state.
And then Hadrian
had some things to say.
But that was the end of it.
After Hadrian,
they never went back until 1948.
So you can literally count
the number of people
who have been there
and have been in the cities.
Less than a...
I don't even know.
I'm not going to say right now.
But it's not...
They don't have the land
for thousands of years.
That's not a thing.
Right.
No.
No.
No.
And the archeological...
The archeological remains
exposed that.
Right?
That they would have way more
of these settlements
that they would find.
Way more of the cities.
We even...
I was at the...
And it was like, dude,
is that all they found?
Right?
Is there...
Was there no other habitation here?
So a lot that...
The theological drive to say,
oh, it must be the palace of Ahab
during the Kingdom of Sohan.
So it's just an attempt
to fit on that biblical narrative.
Now, if we push the biblical narrative
all the way down to the third
and second centuries,
and we say, look,
this stuff is coming from Greek.
It's not coming from Hebrew.
They're back translating it into Hebrew
to try to create a tradition
for themselves.
And they're doing it out
in the middle of nowhere.
Right?
Why are those people
with the Dead Sea Scrolls,
the ones that have both the Greek
and then the Hebrew back translation?
Why do they have...
Why are they out in the middle
of the desert?
Where are all the libraries
in Jerusalem?
And people will say,
well, there aren't any.
How about the libraries?
How about the libraries
of Ash or Bonipol?
People say, oh, look,
we have this great Nileva.
We have this great library
of so-and-so.
And they open it up.
You look at the stuff
that's in that, Neil.
It's garbage.
You're not finding epics
and scientific documents.
And here's the government
and the history section.
You're not finding that.
You're finding laundry lists
of shit that...
Lugals, the Gacy,
Emperor of everything.
You get mythology.
You get King's List.
You get law codes.
Kind of what you get.
And you're right.
And a lot of...
A lot of, like,
a lot of Ostraca,
which are just, like, little notes.
Like, hey, meet me...
Meet me in six months
in this place.
Why don't you get philosophy?
Why don't you get philosophy out of it?
That's a good question.
I think philosophy is a product
of Persian period,
especially in the Middle East.
I mean, obviously, there's not...
I mean, I'm philosophy,
depending on how we define it.
But, like, strict,
philosophical thinking,
that's a Persian period idea,
I think.
I thank you.
I thank your presecratics.
So predate those Persians.
Give me the name besides...
Oh, no, no, no.
You're right.
Though some of those presecratics
were around during the Assyrians.
When the Assyrians
are sacking Judea,
there's Greek presecratics
writing stuff already.
At the mine.
In the six months.
No, no, no.
Thales.
Even Sappho.
Sappho was alive
before the Persians were in power.
Sappho was alive
during the Neo-Babylonian Empire.
Also not getting any lyric, right?
Those Greeks do predate
a lot of these big swings in history.
Yeah.
The Greeks are making those,
even the lyric poetry.
This is such a good point
that you're making,
because people...
There's a myth
that Greek influence
starts with Alexander the Great.
Before that,
there's no Greek influence.
That's wrong.
Greek influence starts
way before that.
As we mentioned,
the Athenian coins.
The coins with Zeus on it.
Greeks have a lot of influence,
and they're very cultural people.
People like their...
People like the Minoans
and the Mycenaeans
and they're adopting the way they dress
and the purple and all that.
Purple die from Minoans.
A lot of the culture
does come from the Greeks.
Even if it's Mycenaean Greeks,
Minoan Greeks,
or even Hittites
who are
very closely related
through their
Pulascian ancestry, we'll say.
They're using the same alphabet
and the Lydians are writing.
They're basically
very Greek close to Greek, Lydian.
I think Lydians
consider Greek, right?
No, I'm not sure about that,
to be honest.
Usually you can see
Lydian roots very obviously.
I don't know to what degree.
It's the Ionian.
It's the cousin of the Ionian
that it's up against.
Yeah.
It's like Lydian and Greek
is like Aramaic and Hebrew.
They're very close.
They have a lot of the same vocabulary.
Maybe a little bit different grammar.
But they worship the same gods.
Lydians are worshiping Aphrodite.
They're worshiping Artemis.
They're worshiping Apollo and Zeus.
And they're writing in the same...
So it's the same cultural.
The same...
I think your types are like that too.
Hang on though.
Let me ask you this question.
So you do see it on the Greek side.
You see, oh, this is a Lydian root.
But here's the question.
How come there aren't any Lydian texts left?
Why don't we have Lydian...
I will hold on to you on that.
The Lydians invented minted coins.
They get credit for it.
The idea of having a minted coin
with a base on it,
or like that's Lydian.
Lydians invented that.
I bet you they used the Greek language to do so.
I bet you they did.
It's the Greek alphabet.
Can you see how the Greek language just absorbed?
It's such a superior machine.
People like Marcus Aurelius were like,
you know, I'm going to use it.
And when I write philosophical documents,
I'm going to use the Greek because it's capable.
It's capable of doing that.
It's not a race thing.
The funny thing is this is what really shocks me.
Life is not about your race.
There's nothing to do with your race.
It's totally incident.
It's about your language.
Because history shows that the more powerful the language,
the more the spread.
And with that spread of that language
comes more technical knowledge,
comes more development.
You get philosophy only when you have a language
that can convey the philosophy.
And I love it.
I want to make love to Mother Greek.
That's what I want to do.
I want to pull this up real quick.
It's the last thing.
This shows you how close Lydians and Greeks are.
It says,
Carisius is credited as issuing the first true gold coins
with a standard circulation.
But look at this.
He claims the scent from the original Agamemnon,
who conquered Troy.
They know they're reading Homer
all the way in Asia Minor.
Greek influence is everywhere.
You know what I mean?
Yeah, and it is a Greek song, remember?
Homer's Greek song.
Homer's Greek.
I love it, man.
I love it. That's absolutely gorgeous.
Neil, thank you for coming tonight.
I want to point out to everybody
that Neil's going to come out with this new interview
and take a look at it.
Love it. When are you going to launch that?
Well, the one that we saw,
the one that we showed the preview of today,
that's out right now.
Oh, it's out right now. Go watch it, people.
As soon as you're done here, go watch it.
Yeah, whatever you're ready to watch it.
Yeah, and let's start it.
What you're going to do is you're going to start some kind of giant discussion
in the world of history.
Is what you're going to do in religion.
People are going to be...
They're going to say something like you're demon possessed.
I can feel it. I can feel them doing it right now.
That's the kind of stuff they're going to say.
In fact, you've got 15,000 views in the first 12 hours,
so it's doing pretty well.
What are you doing slumming with me, man?
What are you, 15,000?
You get more live views than I do now.
You get thousands of people watching when you go live,
but I'm nothing compared to you now.
No, absolutely not.
Why do we do this?
That's the best way to do it.
Because we love it and we're inspired by the muse.
I'm not doing this because I'm trying to griff or make money.
I'm doing this because it's my passion.
Because I'm inspired to do it.
We both agree on that part.
You can totally see that.
You can totally see that with you too, Neil.
There's a zeal that you're doing.
I thank Satanic congregation.
I think everybody that watches initiating apocalypse
and all the little bits that I do,
I think those people all appreciate that.
I don't mean to speak for everybody,
but I think they really appreciate that.
That's why you do such a great job.
You're going to go have some great interviews coming up
and stuff like that too.
Documentary that I've been working on
for a long time now that's going to come out
after the DanResponse video.
It's going to be a video about the Dark Ages.
Comparing the Dark Ages to the classical period.
I already recorded most of it.
So that's on its way too.
Make sure and get those really skinny.
I found an article from this Duschi Bible scholar-nerd.
I don't even know if he has a Ph.D. I don't think he does.
I think he has like a master or something.
I think he like failed out or something.
But he's one of these like Bible scholar type of people.
He calls himself the history for atheists.
He has a whole article about how the Dark Ages
is such a bad term, you shouldn't use it.
Because it was actually really good.
Christians were actually really cool.
Bullshit.
I'm going to show with evidence that that's bullshit.
That's the Dark Ages, even though that's a term
that's obviously subjective in itself.
But if we define it by literature,
which is what Petrarch and who are those guys
that talked about the Dark Ages.
Petrarch is the guy he coined the term.
You know, those Renaissance guys who used that term Dark Ages,
they were using that term for literature.
They weren't talking about the economy.
They weren't talking about armies.
They weren't talking about logistics.
They're talking about literature, text.
And if you take the definition,
the way Petrarch, you wanted the definition to be used,
he's absolutely right.
There was Dark Ages. The texts are trash.
Someone just sent to me one time.
They go, what about Beowulf?
Beowulf, that's all you can come up with.
From 500 BC AD to 1300, you got Beowulf.
You're going to compare that to Homer?
Are you kidding me?
Can you tell me what's the answer from Beowulf?
I don't know shit about Beowulf.
Nobody does.
It's not a household.
Nobody's talking about Beowulf.
It's had such a problem.
You're just trying to find something.
Oh look, Arthur.
Okay, fine. There's one.
I don't know.
I've read some of that King Arthur stuff
in the medieval Latin and it's terrible.
It's absolutely terrible.
No, I don't mean that either.
It does not stack up to Euripides and Homer and Sapo.
No.
Pindar.
Pindar.
Pindar, come on.
We can go on for days.
The list goes on.
There's no comparison.
You got through.
It's not until the renaissance when people start
writing good shit again.
You got the love series for you to be able
to peruse through Disney.
Were you surprised at how many Greek
authors are in it?
Oh yeah.
It's crazy.
You know what else surprises me
is how much we don't have.
Because you and I both know
because we both read a lot of primary sources
because we just love to do it.
They cite a lot.
Those Greeks were citing stuff.
You don't get a lot of citations
in the Hebrew Bible.
No one's citing anything.
But these Greeks, like Herodotus,
they're mentioning other historians before him.
He's mentioning the names of their books.
Other people will even mention those same names
in books.
You can make a list of hundreds,
maybe a thousand people who are cited
who we lost.
Oh yeah.
Just in Galen.
Just in Galen alone because he is always
citing older physicians.
He loves to cite Hellenistic physicians.
Most of them are names that we don't.
Who the hell is that?
Right?
And there's dozens upon dozens upon dozens
of citations that he makes.
I mean, it's uncountable.
So all of that literature that we don't have
that survived because some monk in the dark ages
wiped his buttocks with it.
You know?
Oh god.
Exactly.
They stopped preserving the good,
beautiful, amazing text
of the polytheistic world that's full of color
and three-dimensional,
and everyone has different ways of looking
at the world.
So there's one-dimensional dark, cold,
just no life.
It's just lacking life.
That's what it feels like.
And they're all writing about the same topics.
Oh, Maximistic Confessor wrote another
treatise on the Trinity.
Oh, how God and Father are one and the same.
And how dare you question that?
How dare you use your mind and think,
well, how can one person be the same as another one?
Then that's all you get.
You get non-stop treatises on the Trinity
for 500 years.
Great.
And Beowulf.
Imagine, Neil, imagine living in that society.
All you'd have to do is transport yourself back
for like two weeks and you'd be like,
no, no, I'm not going to do it.
I'm not absolutely not going to live in a world
where there's a church or a monist assembly
that controls everything around it.
And yeah, no.
And people say, oh, you can't say that about the church.
Yes.
You actually can historically look what happens.
And it all starts with Julian.
And he's the first one yelling and saying,
you cannot let the monists, and I use my word monists,
not my word, but the word,
you cannot let the Christians, he says.
You cannot let them take over.
Yeah, atheists.
Yeah, atheists.
No, but he's right though.
It's a different type of monism without the gods.
The Presocratic monism still has the gods.
You still have Zeus.
You still have Aphrodite.
There's just in this universe with us.
There's a whole different kind of monism going on.
Yeah.
Something inherently bad with creating a monist funnel cloud
that sucks all the civilization into its ruin.
Yeah, definitely.
Thank you for coming tonight, Neil.
I want to tell my audience before I sign off
that I am beginning my new classes next week,
Monday, Tuesday, and Thursday.
I've had such a demand for applications.
I've got way more applications than I can even think about covering.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to keep people in the loop
by Sunday night making a little announcement
about what you can do to go forward with classes
for people who want to learn Greek.
I appreciate the fact that people are showing that much interest.
This is more demand than a dozen universities get in a year.
So gorgeous job.
Let's keep rocking it.
And I'm going to serve to the best of my capacity
to get everybody who wants to train,
trained and functional in the Greek.
Fantastic.
Thank you for coming tonight.
Neil, and I'll let you have the last word.
Hail Satan.
Hail Satan indeed.
Thanks for coming.
Κλωσβάζει φεύγουρα.
Παρακολουθώ σπίτι.
Παρακολουθώ σπίτι.
Παρακολουθώ σπίτι.
Παρακολουθώ σπίτι.
Παρακολουθώ σπίτι.
Παρακολουθώ σπίτι.
Παρακολουθώ σπίτι.
Παρακολουθώ σπίτι.
Παρακολουθώ σπίτι.
Παρακολουθώ σπίτι.
Παρακολουθώ σπίτι.
Παρακολουθώ σπίτι.
Παρακολουθώ σπίτι.
Παρακολουθώ σπίτι.
Παρακολουθώ σπίτι.
Παρακολουθώ σπίτι.
Παρακολουθώ σπίτι.
Παρακολουθώ σπίτι.
Παρακολουθώ σπίτι.
Παρακολουθώ σπίτι.
Παρακολουθώ σπίτι.
Παρακολουθώ σπίτι.
Παρακολουθώ σπίτι.
Παρακολουθώ σπίτι.
Παρακολουθώ σπίτι.
