Sunday morning, dark clouds rising Oh, there's no sunshine anywhere
Strong winds blowing, God give us wisdom To grasp the message in the air
Oh, if I could have one wish And know that it would come true
Had a wish that God would give us strength To know just what to do
Then we could tear down the fences That fences all in
Fences created by such evil men Then we could tear down the fences
That fences all in Maybe we could walk together again
Welcome back to Satanic Initiation, Lady Babylon.
It's nice to have you again.
What I've got tonight is a little bit of a treat.
We're going to bring Peter.
Peter who? St. Peter.
We're going to bring St. Peter in and we're going to interrogate him.
And in the process, we're going to find out who he is, what his job was,
and how he was involved with Jesus tonight on Lady Babylon.
So tonight we're going to look at the Hamartalos.
And what we're going to do is we're going to see who this person is.
Really, it's an exercise in classical philology tonight, guys.
And before everybody gets bored and starts to walk out,
because that's classical philology, just the sound of it.
Isn't it sound boring? It sounds boring.
But it's not. It's really not.
And what we're going to do tonight as investigators is we're going to look at a word.
We're going to look at a word.
We're going to track that word.
It's the word that Peter used of himself, of himself.
Before we purify the temple tonight, the sacred space that we have,
I want to show you quickly about the ages of the children who are the apostles.
Yes, the students of Jesus and their age.
People love to run in and they love to say,
Oh, but Peter, Peter was married.
Peter was married.
If you hear that from a biblical scholar or a religious historian,
you will want to question them.
Say, what's the evidence that we have for that?
What's the evidence that we have?
I want to pull up.
I'm going to do this in kind of reverse order.
I want to come back to the very last of my...
Yeah, pull that one up, Chewie.
We're going...
Nope, the one...
That's not it.
That one.
Try that one.
Nope, that's not it.
What about that one?
Oh, my goodness.
I've not put these in the...
I'm going to show you the definition of what is there for right now.
I just want you to hold in reserve that St. Peter is not married.
He's not married.
He's not married.
He's a kid and he's not married.
And I'll show you how.
You say, how can you say that?
How can you say that?
It's beautiful.
It's just the Greek.
We'll bring it right to you.
But before we do, let's cleanse this place.
Let's get rid of any sort of unscientific, unreasonable ideology,
proposals, thoughts, the brain farts of any humans who might have affected us.
Let's get rid of those and let's cleanse that tonight.
Tonight, we're going to see she who is the protector of that nave.
That nave.
Hit it, Chewie.
Hit it.
Hit it.
Hit it.
Hit it.
Hit it.
Hit it.
Hit it.
Hit it.
Hit it.
Hit it.
Hit it.
Hit it.
Hit it.
Hit it.
Hit it.
Hit it.
Hit it.
Hit it.
Hit it.
Hit it.
Hit it.
Hit it.
Hit it.
Hit it.
Hit it.
Hit it.
Hit it.
Hit it.
Hit it.
Ah, that feels good.
That feels good. Let's call them in.
Let's go and get Peter.
Shall we, Peter?
Come and join us, Peter, please.
Will you please Peter?
Go ahead and bring up that very first bit of let's just throw this out there people take a look at this. This is Luke
five eight Luke five eight yeah and so seeing these things Simon Peter fell down at the knees at the knees
right he's collapsing in front of Jesus Jesus with them in the boat we've seen something collapses and froze
says oh my god what does he say get out of here Excel yeah that's what he says he says get away from me
I'm on Hamar Dolos see that third the last word Hamar Dolos what is this what is Peter saint Peter who is still a teenager
what is saint Peter calling himself that's what we're going to find out don't be surprised don't be surprised
can you believe people we don't even have an accurate an accurate depiction of him none of these none of these
they all follow the fairytale not the text not the text the text is much more interesting let's see what the kids doing
let's see what the kids doing this is great biblical scholarship by the way in the hands of a classical
philologist you can really generate good genuine scientific scholarship for the Bible that's what they need
that's what the Bible needs shine a light on it love it here it is watch this let's find some more Hamar Dolos
boy shall we find some more of these people what are they are there any are there any in the bushes where are they
I think they're in a place called Sodom and Gomorrah Sodom and Gomorrah is it these people yes we can call them
Gomorrites or we call them Sodomites but they're there in the text and here they are from the city of Sodom
what does it say those people from the city of Sodom they were Poneiroi they were terrible they were terrible
they were Hamar Deloy all the time excessively do doing this excessively the acts of this Hamar Dolos
you get away from me do you know who I am I'm a Hamar Dolos they weren't having a philosophical discussion
Peter was trying to tell him what he did and let's see let's see what happens bring us up Peter get over here
yes get over here there here it is love it we're gonna I'm gonna take you tonight to a magic time this is the year 1313
it's the Genesis it's the Genesis that's what they called project those Satanists look it up if you know now that many of you
have ears to hear you can find this stuff blow that up against you I need that one
so these are the guys in Sodom and they're terrible they're always doing this in front just right in front of his eyes man he's watching you
this guy's watching you and you're doing this stuff and Sodom and Gomorrah next one please
here we go here we go and this is Luke 530 we're in another place where the Pharisees Pharisees and the Grammatists
those are the intellectuals those are the they call them scribes but they're also mathematicians
yeah no these are you know kind of educated people of the time right and what are they doing they're all mad at the
at the math at us at the kiddies at Jesus's kiddies they're mad and why are they mad well here's what they asked
they said do you know that don't do long on why are you eating and drinking with
Telonin and Hamart alone with Hamart alloy and a telonis what is a telonis right so the the people take it down the people
the people are upset the religious folks are upset right the sacks of the Pharisees they're mad because look who he's keeping
look who his kids are keeping company with Jesus gets a reputation for this he gets a reputation
right so much to the point that he says you say that I've come as a drunk as somebody overindulging with my Hamart alloy
right he knows that that that accusation is being leveled that's in two of the Gospels
so let's keep find out who are these Hamart alloy well we know that they're associated with these what are these
they're guys who complete the contract what the telos bring us up the next let's find out who these people are look at this
who are the telonis or what is a telonis look it's the combination of telos and oh net oh my yeah oh net oh my look
what it says near the bottom of public conus in latin isn't that nice to get this not dead in your public conus right
publican publican what is a publican I'm not I'm not getting any closer I see a tax farmer I see a tax farmer
but look at the Greek in the middle of this Alice Alice from Wonderland speak to me please Pantes telona Pantes AC Harpages
look at this everybody who's a telona those people all of them are thieves thieves you know what a telonis is take it down
a telonis the associate of the Hamart telos the telonis collects the fee the telonis collects the fee
good you see there are services being rendered fees being taken collected okay this is what they do
and saw them that really makes him mad yeah do you wonder why they were right think about
that just for a minute you've got the Septuagint right it's not from 1200 BC right it's a
Hellenistic document third second century and what is it talking about it's talking about practices of public prostitution
that we know are contemporary he's not talking about anything beyond that this is wonderful these people
of Sodom we have a text here in Greek the original we have a text not a translation a text talking about
this institution within Sodom right and what are we talking about the pirates again guys
it's the trafficking the selling of humans the selling of humans ready ready that's why Peter and his buddies are
all getting recognized by the Pideski the prostitute right okay let's keep going it gets okay I know
people are like let's take a look at this we need to see the we need to see the actually it's the one before the
the one before the boink yeah look at the bottom of this guys on that telonase take down satanic initiation please
porno boscoi and telonase right um so we know that these telonase or these telonai that they have associates
who are Hamar teloi and porno boscoi porno boscoi and I don't know if you can hear the root of that porne
and bosque porne and bosque but let's look at what that could possibly be because here's another person
what does the porna boscus do oh they keep the whole thing running they keep the whole thing running a
brothel keeper well that makes sense somebody who is fostering the porne and by the way here's your
here's your publicanus and I just wanted you guys to see here um look we're not talking about Roman
equestrians in Judea right we're not talking about that um look at the top here um we have the farming
of the revenue and we have the mulliércula the wife of the farmer general isn't that interesting
and look what they put look what the Victorians put in little tiny parentheses with an odious secondary
meaning an odious please don't you feel that I am old enough to learn what your odious secondary
meaning is no because they were Victorians and they thought none of us should know and accept
accept a select few right fantastic so uh you know let's look it up because we're not gonna we're
we're not gonna give up right not us not people from satanic initiation no by the way I'm thinking
about doing a show for kids to help educate them about the bible um and a format for that I thought
it was a great idea um something to get out there to protect and shield and educate those children
from transdimensional um Jesus yeah almost like a public service yes anywho let's go to the
uh next let me know in your comments if you think that you know um such a show would be watchable
you know it would have to be really entertaining and fun for the kids that's what it has to be
mulliércula what is a mulliércula a little woman a mere woman a girl now go drop down a couple of lines
look at look at what's coming up before cicero's tasquilla disputations a common working girl oh i see
a common working girl i know what those are in greek next give me the next one right after that one
nope nope we are off tonight aren't we yeah totally where did you just have me here this is what i need
right here take that off nice we'll get it between the two of us we'll get it figured out no problem
people are not in a hurry anyway porne look at this harlot or prostitute harlot or prostitute
huh harlot or prostitute okay i get it archillicus but most importantly people i tell all my greek
students this and please if you're learning anything in the greek know that that verbal action is most
important right the greek is basing the majority of those not those nouns and adjectives off of that
action so let's look at what the verb is go to the next one yep um this is not the verb but this is
the um this is the noun pornos catamite look at this it's from that porn route it's from that
porn route right sodomite and again everybody saw we were looking at sodom the english term
sodomite we know what the english term sodomite means it means somebody's um you know one of
these hamartoloi you know what i mean that it's the way it is and um fornicator that's a little
bit interesting fornicator but look at the very bottom idolatry idolatry you see this is a pagan
this is a real pagan thing we got going on here's the verb that it's from per name me right right
and just look at the bottom of this paragraph it's the second to last line to export for sale
and epic usually of exporting captives to foreign parts for sale as slaves you mean the word for
porn um pornographic lifestyle uh um erotic sales prostitution you mean the words that cut
that we're getting all of these concepts from in greek have to do with this idea
that the leistace has that you can take a person capture them sail off to somewhere else and
sell them for the sake of sexual favors as a slave yes yes it's where it comes from
it's where it comes from the pornae who serves in the temple of aphrodite her name is is a
designation what they call her is a designation of the fact that she is that servant to the divinity
she is that servant it is the cup of the pornea give me the next one next slide it's the cup of
the pornea that is the cause of the catastrophe of the apocalypse right it is this that we're
talking about go ahead yep i think nope let's see nope nope there we are okay um let's go ahead
push forward uh yeah so john comes to you on this road of righteousness and uh you believed him
right hoy de telonai kai high pornai epistelsan in him whoops they didn't believe them they didn't
believe them kaiuk they didn't believe but the telonai and the pornae right we just saw pornae
prostitutes the telonai who are the ones who were taking the fees for the prostitutes right
they are they did believe in them says matthew here right what's he say right don't you see
they're gonna these people right this he hits this over and over again that these people are
going to enter the kingdom of heaven before you people i've got another verse coming up right
so what is it saying jesus is associated with telonai with hamart aloy and peter is confessing
to him at this point at this point now i've got a really great um wonderful description of these
people um that i'm going to read to you from antiquity um uh but here i want to bring that
back up please truly um i just want you to remember the verb pornae well that means to
prostitute also means to practice idolatry at the bottom the religion is just
wound up with it you can't separate the two a porno compost is one who has commerce with
prostitutes the roots of this are you know endless this is one source i wanted to see
to bring it look what do we have here we have hasekius now i'm going to give you i'm going to
give you something special right i'm going to give you something special tonight your average scholar
is not going to do this they're not going to go all the way into the depths what i have to do is dig
up a lexicographer who is greek an ancient greek lexicographer who's going to be able to write to
you what these words mean in his own language right that is evidence that is the cream of the
crop that is that bottle of wine that's been sitting there for 120 years yeah that's the good stuff
that's the good stuff let's go right now to him let's go here's two words
porno copos and porno which is just they're just putting some stuff into a case don't worry about
that it's just pornos anyway what is the porno copos it's the hetero trofos the hetero trofos
remember jesus has a tyroid these little guys who are his companions all the time this is the one
who grooms them this is the companion groomer and the pornos he is himself a pornos so when
jesus talks to his children and he is telling them about what they will be doing he is approaching
them as the groomer as the one who cultivates their active use as prostitutes he is the pornos
he's the if you want to think of him as the ideal pornos that's the way to go but that is
the position from which jesus is speaking to his young apostles okay um pornoi look at the
bottom definition paidi no this one i'm going to translate directly up for anybody who's been
saying these kids these kids are not not kids who were kids these are 30 year old kids right
and the only reason he's calling him kids is jesus is goofy right he walks around like mickey
mouse saying hello there kitty we're all my sheepkins today hello there lamekin he does that
to adults because he's just weird that way right it's just one of the things no no that's not right
that's not right at all
what is the definition according to hezekius hezekius yeah this is that pice
that has grown to the point of fruition to the point of fruiting that's literally what it says
that kid is at the point of blooming and at that point of blooming they are entered
into working for the telones the one who collects the fees and that one who collects the fees
is strictly working the business end of those um hamarthaloy yeah yeah okay let's keep going
it gets it's going to get a little bit more um historic detail here love this is great
literature people the bible is you need to read this stuff go um this is syseros oh yes this is
catalanarian conspiracy and i just want you guys to see i want to read this to you
chui you've been great can you blow that up for me thanks um look look at the second
look at the second paragraph he's talking about the catalanarian conspiracy this is just where
syseros console with somebody else there's two of them right and um somebody comes up
and tries to take over catalan tries to take over the government syseros not going to let him he's
promised he pledges to protect the republic to keep the republic safe from an attempted
conspiracy from an an attempted um insurrection and so um he talks about the people who are
following catalan he talks about the people who are following catalan and in the second paragraph
he says there is a last class last not only a number but in the sort of men and in their way of life
the special bodyguard of catalan his god his bodyguard and he levied it yes the friends of his
embraces and of his bosom what whom you see with carefully combed hair glossy beardless
or with well-trimmed beers watch watch out if you trim your beard too well you might be a
catalanarian um let's see what does he mean with tunics with sleeves he describes your fashion
right um whose watchfulness is expended in suppers lasting until daybreak he goes on to
say how they have their naked dances together and then it takes a funny kind of a funny turn yeah
i'm sorry let's get the next one up takes kind of a funny turn and he continues to describe him
in these bands remember this is cistero people if you don't like cistero something's wrong
something's wrong you know i feel like i should salute of eagle or something yeah um cistero
in these bands are all the gamblers right now remember they're using the same terms
for these groups of people that jesus in the new testament is using of his disciples
okay in these bands are all the gamblers all the adulterers all the unclean and shameless citizens
these boys so witty and delicate have learned not only to love and to be loved
not only to sing and to dance but also to brandish daggers and to administer poisons
and unless they're driven out unless they die even should cataline die i warn you that the school
of cataline would exist in the republic yeah yeah look at the last line second um second uh
starts on the third last line oh war much to be dreaded when cataline is going to have his body guard
of prostitutes if you are looking at antiquity and you do not see the profound effect of human
trafficking um and it's broad cultural um perfusion entering all of literature
no matter what kind it is there's a reason that christians call themselves slaves right there's
a reason there's a reason okay let's keep going after cicero i've got a couple of more goodies
here and i just want people to see i want us to get a whole well-rounded so he says look
mini teloni on line two mini teloni and mini hamar teloi there they were workers with jesus
and with his students and there were many of them right they were reclining what are they doing here
what soon on a kanto you know what that means that means they're reclining with do you know
do you know what this picture is of this scene imagine a room with jesus reclining or lounging
with 12 teenage
boys men 12 teenagers yeah and um and these people come in wait what more people yeah lots of teloni
lots of these distributors dealers and their hamar teloi and their prostitutes come in and
lie with jesus and his kids yeah take it down okay there's a lot going on in the bible there's
a lot going on in the bible and it's no wonder that jesus gets it all right there's no wonder
that he gets it and he's like they're gonna come and get me why he raises his hand and he's getting
arrested right gee the children out there need to know that jesus christ when he was being arrested
in a public park at 4am with a naked kid when he was being arrested he was shouting i am not a child
trafficker i am not a child trafficker jesus please please please tell us why go to the next one
this is going to get a little a little rough but i know you guys enjoy the rough seas
um look just more mark 26 these telones these hamar teloi they're all over the place
they're all over the place this people are upset saying why are you eating why are you
eating with these people why are you associating with these gangs right what is a hamar telon
tell me hasik yes that's i'm translating that's someone who will do anything somebody who has
no standards somebody who's clever to get the job done to you they are tricksters they are thieves
right these people they'll get you and what do they get you for watch this they're moxeros
they're moxeros they're in bad condition they are naïves right they're naivish these people
rob you blind right what what are they doing about this and in the religious circles they're
standing here praying look look at luke 1811 the Pharisees standing there praying he said oh god
i'm so happy that i'm not like the rest of these people pointing them out these people who are
thieves and and criminals and mojhoi and telones what wait they're mojhoi mojhoi what is that
mojhoi adulterer adulterer but look at number two look at roman numeral number two now everybody
i told you classical philology is all exposure you can't get around me with ps if i've seen
every one of these myself look at number two this is how this word is used paramour of a
sodomite right oh mayho it's coming from a root that has to do with production of fluids and that's
all i'm gonna say idolatrous person idolatrous person idolatrous wait a minute you got this
religion thing and this slave trade thing and this drug thing all together all together welcome
welcome to the mystery welcome
okay should we tell people you know somebody was asking me is is chewy bomb bargey with
with with imagery um no that's okay keep going i like it hypnotize them um i just want to step
back and i want to say if we don't correct the history it perpetuates the lies and the propaganda
of those who don't want reality whoever is in our society who does not want a reality
of jesus as he lived and spoke and breathed historically they have a problem with this
we we can always win people we can always win as long as we get people the information the people
who should be reading the bible right now are not preachers and pulpits they're not priests
in parishes no they're not street preachers no they're not anglicans no they're not
Protestants they're not Catholics they're not orange or green they're not even Mormons
the people who should be teaching uh joe's witness i'll throw them into sorry but
don't mean to leave anybody out Scientologists don't teach the bible so they don't count
right but for those who teach the bible the the ones that really should be taking their place
are the scholars and i'm not talking about the people at harvard i'm talking about the people
who spent time in their lives saying there is this thing called language and you know what
i'm going to master to the best of my ability this one so i can access those sources i'm not
here to sell you anything have you seen me hawk you any t-shirts or hats i don't want that
i'm not here to give you a church you know that nobody here wants that i'm here to bring you those
texts and to show you that you too can learn and master and open up that gateway to reality
that is the past all we have to do is bring these texts to the world the whole world should see
jesus for who he is and he was a man arrested in a park with a naked boy for a reason for a reason
it's all about that museum we have to maintain the integrity of the museum um i've got a couple
more but i think i'm just gonna hit this last one yep i'm taking up people's time um yeah
no no no this is just when jesus boatjacks peter i'm sorry peter remember um
peter james and john were on these boats and see a galley right on the shore to see a galley
and their parents go away to mend the nets and when jesus sees the parents leave he goes over
to the boat that's got peter on it and he says hey take us up to the shoreline and i'll teach
these people on the shore and they do and when they're done teaching jesus turns back to peter
and he says hey peter let's go out into the deep end let's go let's go see what's going on over
there and it's at that point after the miracles have taken place that peter collapses falls down
it says i am not worthy he says you know what i am you know what i am jesus and this must have been
so hard for peter this must have been so hard because remember the stigma that is attached
to the act of sodomy and antiquity remember the stigma and peter has to acknowledge
before jesus that he is in an operation that he is in the middle of ancient prostitution
and does jesus have a problem with it nope as a matter of fact he goes and gets himself
a telonis to help collect the fees his name was matthew you guys have a good night i'm
gonna go now to lady babelon in about 20 minutes and i'm gonna throw out some discussion i'm just
gonna throw out some things that i want to discuss that i want everybody to discuss not me
but you know other people because i'm tired of talking and it's my time to enjoy the
intellectual convo thank you for coming tonight please don't forget this is all the bible hail satan
us all
maybe we could walk together again just maybe we could walk
