Take me to that happy hour I never had
Show me the girl I never met, I want it so bad
Where is that golden palace? Where is that whore called Destiny?
I think she ran on without me
Thank you for coming tonight. There will be two messages delivered simultaneously.
One's a left-handed and one's a right-handed.
Yeah, so that's nice. We have a privilege tonight that way.
We're going to jump in. I'm going to take you guys to a place where people in antiquity got high on the burning purple.
And I'm going to show you what they saw.
That's what's tonight on Lady Babylon's Bible Study.
The first thing that I want to do is take you just hop right.
We're going to hop right in the ship and we're going to go.
We're going to just take off tonight because I want to show you.
Look, we've been talking a lot about drugs in the ancient world.
We've been talking a lot about sources that talk about the drugs and we've been talking about it in cold context.
We've looked at some parts of a formula for one of the Galenae, one of the famous antidotes to counteract the communion.
So we've looked at all of those things.
Now let's look at some people actually using them.
I want you to recognize while we're doing this that we are communicating on two different levels.
So the idea is that look, I mean, this is the this is the world war happens to be two dimensions, right?
Overlapping each other and you can talk back and forth.
You can interact, right?
And if you know the right things to do, you can move the mountains, right?
It's pure mystery, pure mystery.
The Christians cannot deny this, right?
It's pure mystery.
So what I what I'd like to do is to teach you if I had a group of people's very secretive group of people and we were working on some big private projects, I would have them reach out, reach out to this frequency to tap in to be sitting on that throne.
What throne is that?
They call it the throne of the devil, right?
I would be sitting in that position in order to hear the left-handed track that's being played, right?
Two tracks.
Fantastic.
Okay.
So tonight what I want to do is I want to start with Orpheus.
We have to bring up Orpheus and I'm going to have a nice little video to beautifully done.
By the way, thank you to Chewie for everything, for piloting this ship.
Thank you, Chewie.
You've been a great, I wouldn't be able to do it without you, so we're fine team.
Let's go to the text.
I want to bring Orpheus back and in order to get Orpheus back, we're going to have to go here to a root cutter, right?
This is where we're going to get this information.
We're going to get this information from a root cutter who is the root cutter.
The root cutter is that professional who knows the plants and who knows the drugs, who knows how to acquire them, how to process them, what time of day it needs to be done, specific times of the year, different weather conditions.
She knows what to do with the drugs.
She knows how to prepare them, to combine them.
This is somebody who's got a lot of knowledge and this knowledge is passed down.
It's generational knowledge, right?
And some of it gets ended up, ends up getting written, excuse me, written and recorded for us.
And we have these gems of these sources.
The one I want to take you tonight is written by the son of one of these famous root cutters.
And by the way, Sophocles wrote a play called the root cutters, right?
So it's a big deal in antiquity.
So here we go. She is passing the knowledge that we are getting tonight.
The scene, the ability to see the scene of these drug users, actively performing the mystery.
The power of that tonight comes from Orpheus, right?
It comes from that root cutter's tradition.
We have to summon them.
This is our first text, right?
This is our first text.
E minton or fheus eion, opatheir, logon, peythen eaidus, ost homarten moe petras, kelem te tois, logoesi kus ebulome.
Yes, these are the lines of the great virgin.
These are the lines of the great Crimean Virgin, Crimean Virgin.
Who is she?
She is the one who was sacrificed for the welfare of her people.
And when I say virgin, I don't mean sexual virgin.
I mean an age group, virgins and antiquity are an age group.
The nymphs are the ones who are ready for marriage.
Ready for marriage.
So we're talking about an age of life here.
Iphigenia is the great Ithiwanasa.
This is old, old Mycenaean cult.
Okay, so we're setting the stage here, right?
We're just landing our ship.
We're getting out.
Where are we?
What century is it, right?
What age is it?
Where are we?
We're in the late Bronze Age and we are worshiping a virgin.
Yes, we're worshiping a virgin and that virgin was a sacrifice.
But when that sacrifice was meant to take place, Diana provided a substitute and took
the sacrifice.
And she installed that sacrifice in what we call today the Crimea.
But in antiquity, they called it the land of the Talrians.
Yeah, sometimes we say that the very, you know, we talk about the Yuxi, the Icenaus,
they called it.
Originally the sea, the black sea, and there is the Crimea and there it's from there that
our virgin and all of her worship comes from.
She's installed there.
And what is her job?
Her job is to take captured Greeks and execute them very specifically.
And why would she do that?
Because she's the virgin.
She is the Diwanisah.
She is the Diana who was sacrificed.
And for that reason, because of what Grace did to its own daughter, they all die.
Doesn't matter.
Doesn't matter.
They all die.
They're all sacrificed.
She's the one that does it.
She's the virgin who does that sacrifice.
So she says in this text, if I possessed the Logos of Orpheus
to persuade with song so that even the rocks would work in unison with me, homontaine is
a great, great verb.
It means to, it means to, for two separate entities to work, to be bound in a relationship,
to where they're coming together is the production of the work.
Yeah, yeah.
So that I could enter into a sympathy with the very elements.
Kailene.
Kailene.
What does Kailene mean?
Show us here.
If I could charm.
Now again, this is thanks to the Victorians shout out to England and the, uh, yeah, and
the scholars 150 years ago.
Yeah.
Sorry.
I don't know what that says about modern scholarship, but the good stuff comes out of the 1850s
in England.
And that's where we're getting this charm thing.
This charm thing.
It's a call by an incantation.
It's a call.
If I possess the logos of Orpheus, I can do this to whomever I want.
Yeah.
If I had it, I would use it.
She says, if I had it, I would use it.
I want you to remember one thing.
Is it talking about the power of Orpheus?
And this is part of the, the background of the cult.
All of this, you think that this is, or people talk about Orpheus, Orpheus, Orpheus, right?
How important Orpheus is, is Christianity the product of Orphism?
Of course.
Right.
Of course it is.
Right.
This mystery that we're talking about, it is the original mystery.
It's the oldest that we have for creating that a regular response, whether it's the Jews
who were doing it from a box in a tent full of smoke, or whether it's the Greeks who were
doing it over a tripod.
It's the original mystery.
And what's funny is we always attribute, we always talk about Orpheus, Orpheus, Orpheus.
Orpheus was the student of Medea.
Yeah.
As usual, I'm sorry, but as usual, there is a brilliant woman behind the Orpheus.
The origin that nobody discusses.
Yeah.
It's a shame.
It's a shame.
I'm going to take you to the place where the purple is, and where they're using it, and
we have a text that'll talk about that.
So when you are talking to Satan, when you're talking to Satan, when you're using that Saturnian
oracle, you've entered that initiation, and you're then operating actively, you can function
within both worlds at once, so that the rocks must obey.
Yeah.
Gorgeousness.
We've got a little video.
I want you to see this video.
This is in the other world where the north is the south, and the south is the north, full
of subliminal messages for you.
So, eat this one up tonight.
Everybody in the world knows that men don't think very much of women who are easy.
Women who are easy.
Having a virtuous wife is being like a rich man with big sack of rubies.
Your husband is blessed.
God is favoring him by providing a wife, providing you for this man.
Easy.
Easy.
He is the ruler of this world.
These titles and many more signify Satan's capabilities.
We must remember that God has given him domain over unbelievers only.
Believers are no longer under the rule of Satan.
Unbelievers, on the other hand, are caught in the snare of the devil, lie in the power
of the evil one, and are in bondage to Satan.
Satan is the God of this world.
It's not saying that he has ultimate authority.
It is conveying the idea that Satan rules over the unbelieving world in a specific way.
These bad guys at Corinth are Satanic.
Self-righteous respectability, that's the beating heart of Satanism.
Abortion?
God is forgiving it.
Bored sites?
God is forgiving it.
And we think, oh, you're starting to introduce moral chaos.
No, forgiveness of sin is not moral chaos.
But I believe that God has built men to engage with the world, and God has built women to
be domestic.
Between Presbyterians and twerking drag queens is not to display an admirable neutrality.
This only happens when the state has decided to side with the Kinky tribe plus.
And everybody in the world knows that men don't think very much of women who are easy.
So, this is not a fairy tale that we can live in, right?
We're going tonight to see the queen.
We're going to see somebody who is not a bag of rubies.
Are you a bag of rubies?
I know.
I could be a bag of something, a bag of rubies, I don't know.
The fact that you put up with that is just, to me, is absolutely phenomenal.
Shows your patience.
Wow.
I want to bring up another passage in Greek here, and I just stuck out one line out on
the side there.
It's just for you to get comfortable with, because it's an important line.
But in the first four lines of this little speech that we have here, this is again from
the son of the root cutter.
And he's talking about the great virgin that is worshiped by the Talrians in what we call
the Crimea.
Yeah, fantastic.
And on the fourth line, he says, hey, there were some guys that were washed up, you know,
on the shore.
Down in the crack of the side of the wall, the cliff, where the sea hits up against it.
By the way, they called the Black Sea an ocean.
The Camarians live beyond the ocean in the Greek mind, and that ocean was the Black Sea.
And those Camarians come from Crimea, earliest people from Crimea.
Fantastic.
And the fourth line says they ended up in this little cave, little crag, where the dealers
in the purple, where they do their thing, where they deal in purple.
Did you know there's two Greek verbs?
Yeah, this is weird.
This is weird.
But Greek has several ways of saying to do the purple.
Yeah, to do the purple.
So here they are doing the purple, doing the purple.
Let's just see really quick, go ahead and pull that one up.
Yeah, here's the word just for the skeptics in the group, right?
The porphyry, remember, is the purple, and that's the mollusk.
You know, it's probably a place where they fished this thing out of the waters and prepared
it and then apparently administered it.
The guys that came up and saw them, the locals that walked up and hear these two guys messing
around, right, where the purple is, those guys said it was God, right?
It was a couple of gods that washed up.
Be careful.
Another guy said, no, no, no, it's not.
It's just some humans, just some Greeks, he said, washed up from the shore, right?
Washed up.
There they are.
Let's go get them and kill them, right?
Take them to the sacrifice in the great version, because this is at the bottom of the top of
this place.
On the top of this place is a hill, and the name for that hill is the name for doing purple.
It's got a temple on the top of it, a temple to the Virgin.
Okay, so let's watch what happens when these guys use this drug.
This is phenomenal.
The Greek text is wonderful here.
We're going down to about line, oh, this is about line 285 for those who are keeping track.
About 284, 283 here.
Yeah, so this is good.
I'm going to use this one that's on the screen here.
Yeah, there we go.
Perfect.
So maniais, I know, he was running around in mania, that's the word for mania.
He's pacing back and forth in mania, okay.
And he's shouting, boi.
He's shouting on Kunagos, like he's a hunter.
Like he's, that word literally is just the one that leads the dogs.
And if you think of a man here, you've thought wrong.
Yeah, you're not in Kansas anymore, man whose wife is a sack of rubies.
That's so demeaning.
I don't know how you people put up with it.
I really don't know.
I don't get it.
Whatever, it's your choice.
Okay, what does he say?
What does this one guy say?
He's stumbling around.
He's like Pilates.
His friend's name is Pilates, right?
A couple of Greeks.
Yeah, right?
Pilates.
He says, did you see that thing?
He says, it's the dragon of Hades, it's the dragon of Hades.
Now, that may not make sense to some of you, but for some of you take the right path.
You'll know that the Crimea has a dragon and a gateway to Hades.
To Hades.
We have a dragon and we have a gateway to Hades.
This thing is so old that Homer even writes about it and it's speculated that Homer got
it, stole it from the epics about Medea, which would make sense, right?
Because before Odysseus is running around in his skirt, Medea is ruling the world.
Yeah, yeah, you didn't know she, yeah, fantastic.
This is gorgeous.
I tell you this stuff.
So what's this guy doing?
He's running around.
Ah, there's the drachyna of Hades, right?
He's like, do you see her?
Do you see her?
He says, as if she wants to kill me, she's here, she comes, she's coming like she wants
to kill me.
And what does she got?
She's got daynice, ahidnice, for those of you who follow the ahidna or the ahidna, you
know that in the dipsass, the poison, right?
You know that this is her, the viper.
Here she is.
She's coming at him with these terrible, terrible, viperine darts, right?
Oh, God, this is gorgeous, yeah.
And now this next line, it's a little odd and not translated very well.
So you guys are sitting tonight on the, you're looking down into the canyon, right?
On the top, you're looking down because this is not done.
This text is not done, right?
The translations are eh, right?
But that's, it's obvious that something is messed up, right?
From our understanding.
The very next line.
Heide echidonon purpneusak aifonon, yeah.
She breathes fire from her chitin, yeah.
She breathes fire from her undergarment, yeah.
She breathes fire from her clothing, yeah, yeah, wow.
And what else, phonon, death.
She breathes fire and death from her covering, yeah.
It's a great dragon of Crimea.
That's gorgeous.
I love it.
And how does she do it?
With the feathered wings, with the feathered powers, yeah, that's feathered powers.
It's the arrow of poison, right?
If you don't recognize that Orestes is in a state of oistromania right now from that
arrow of poison, yeah, then you're, you know, you're missing the boat or something.
He's seeing her though, he's seeing her though.
And he says, oh my goodness, she's going to kill me, here she comes, yeah, yeah.
And then he makes what they call erinus.
He makes a vocalization which they associate with erinus.
Erinus is fury.
When you're transformed into the fury, you know it, right?
You know it, and how do you know it?
Hang on, under this drugs influence, you bark like a dog and bleat like a sheep, yeah.
Like a sheep.
So, which is not, I've seen this description elsewhere, Nacander talks about it, right?
So the prophets of the great mother would come in with the purple on, right, eyes, you
know, they've been taking this drug in their eyes, right?
And they come out in the streets and they start screaming at people furiously about their
desecration of the great mother.
If your city wounds daughters and their mothers, you're going to get the prophets of the great
mother.
Yeah, you're going to get the prophets of the great mother that show up, right?
Yeah, okay, so throw up Herodotus, just for the naysayers.
Let's just let people see that we're not joking here about what's going on, right?
Among these, the Tauri have the following customs, all shipwrecked men and any Greeks
whom they capture in their sea raids, they sacrifice to the Virgin goddess, I told you,
as I will describe, after the first rites of sacrifice, they strike the victim on the
head with a club.
This is like one of those clubs that they brought to apprehend Jesus with, right?
This is not a, don't be thinking hammer, right?
This is an implement.
I mean, you know, anyway, they knock you on the head first, I don't know, is it nice?
Yeah, and according to the source, they then place the head on a pole and throw the body
off the cliff on which their temple stands, isn't that nice?
Others agree as to the head, so they get bonked, but say the body is buried, not thrown off
the cliff.
That's a tiny detail.
The Tauri themselves say that the deity to whom they sacrifice is Agamemnon's daughter,
Iphigenia.
Look at that.
So the Greeks aren't just running around claiming, that's the Greek daughter of the king, right?
No, it's actually her, right?
The Taurians fully admit that, right?
Good.
As for enemies whom they defeat, each cuts his enemies head off and carries it away to
his house where he places it on a tall pole, stands at high above the dwelling, above the
smote, you know, these heads they say are set up to guard the whole house.
Yeah.
If your house had heads on pikes around it, you probably wouldn't have to even have a
guard dog.
They have a lot of guard dogs in antiquity, but you probably wouldn't even need a guard
dog for that, right?
Who's going to go into a house where there's a head on the outside?
So, okay, look, I know it's shocking.
You're in a different part of the world.
You're in a different part of time.
You're in a different place, but this is how world is functioning.
We're in the late Bronze Age.
Can you smell the late Bronze Age, right?
Be feeling the lack of civil authority, but the presence of armies that are led by leaders
or coalitions of very powerful, wealthy people.
Some big cities and big stones.
This is, you know, this is the way to go.
This is the way to go.
Yeah.
Late Bronze Age.
Okay.
Fantastic.
And who do we come up on next?
Late Bronze Age.
We're getting behind.
Let's go to the last text that we've got there for you to see.
I want you to meet up face-to-face, face-to-face with our, oops, let me get up in the way
here, with our, a little bit of Latin from Valerius Flakus, right, who has access himself
to the sibling oracles, right?
He's got access to the book, so he knows, right?
If anybody knows the history of the purple and the visions that are produced by it, yes,
the Saturnian rites, if anybody knows it, it's this guy.
And he's writing about the rising, the uprising here, literally the text, it's the coming
up from underneath, from underneath, right?
Hera is the reason we're all here, the queen of queens, right?
Hera, right?
And Hera needs, all right, let those with ears to hear here, Hera needs the world to
conform to her.
And so she calls upon the power of Aphrodite to use the Medea, the Medua, or the Medusa.
She calls upon her, a human, a human, right?
We're talking about two different dimensions now, together, functioning together.
Just hang with me.
And what's funny is the one element that is this reflection, right, that all the guys
at MIT are saying, hey, this is your reflection of reality through the event horizon, right?
Everything that is in this reality that is reflecting from that other side, that is powering
this individual, who is, who is every mind, every mind.
Imagine that every mind in one virgin.
So there's a civil war going on.
There are Scythians involved, you know, the Camarians, the Camarians in Crimea, they were
the ones who really made a place for this oracle in the first place, right?
So all of the sibling power that comes from the Crimea that were, you know, kind of stuns
us as modern scholars of Greek history and of Greek languages.
This kind of Eastern influence, what the Greeks would call barbaric area, is the cradle for
the very mystery that ends up being Judaism and Christianity, you know, and it does so
through a virgin, you know.
So you can see why she'd need to be controlled, right?
You can see why she's a bag of rubies.
Comes down to them.
I'm sorry.
I hope that pains every, every female ear out there tonight.
I hope that hurts, stings you.
I hope you get that oistress.
And I hope you feel that because I don't know how, how else to prod, right?
How else to prod?
By the way, people, there's a group of people who are talking about, hey, I want to join
and I want to do it.
And I'm a woman.
That's fantastic, fantastic.
We'll talk about, you know, yeah, what's stopping you, right?
Let's look at these verses to finish off here.
This is from Valerius Flakis, right?
And he says, soul anima media subit, right?
She comes into the mind.
She comes into the mind of the goddess.
She comes into the mind.
What is she?
Men's omnis in una virgine.
The all mind, you know, in one virgin.
Wait a minute.
You mean all of the stuff with the civil war and the gods and the powers of the magicians
that are around.
All this stuff, all this killing can be solved by one virgin, yeah, yeah.
And remember, she's 12.
She's 12.
The text says she's not ready yet to wed, right?
That's 13, 14, right, 13, 14, 15, somewhere in that range.
She's not ready to wed yet.
She's not a full nymph.
So she's 12 or 13 years old.
I was shocked when I found out Jubit was, you know, a teenager, right?
Where's she late 15?
Right?
I was surprised.
14.
Fantastic.
Thanks, Jubit.
But what you have to realize is that if you're an Athenian, you worship a virgin.
You have no problem with that, right?
There is something there that must be honored.
And it's only the atheists that don't honor the virgin.
You'll notice when it where the virgin is kicked around, she is kicked around by atheists.
And now you understand why the earliest Christians were called atheists.
They didn't honor the virgin, yeah, they didn't honor the virgin.
You're right.
What is special about Medea?
Nobody else, the text says, nobody else has more power, in the nocturnal, in the nocturnal
alters.
Okay.
You're way out of your league, right?
You realize that you step out of the time machine, you're looking at this cult and you're
like, oh, wait a minute, what does that mean?
The nocturnal alters.
Remember we're at the opening of the underworld, right?
We're with the guys in the purple, right?
We are seeing and interacting with the great dragon, the symbol of Crimea, right?
The Camarion symbol, my goodness, this is good stuff.
This is a bronze age beauty is what this is.
This is gorgeous.
I love it.
Yeah.
What is everybody so worked up about?
This virgin?
She, right?
Because you haven't heard what the virgin does until now.
Some of you say, oh, I'm Catholic.
We do marry.
Right?
Yeah.
Yeah, you do.
Just keep thinking that, right?
What does this virgin do?
What does this virgin do?
This virgin's primitus, the pounding, the vibrating of the chest of this virgin causes
things to happen.
Yeah.
It causes the stars to be fixed in place and to quiver, pawent, they quiver, causes
the sun to be stupefied in its track.
Fantastic.
And how does she do it?
She does it with her sucrose.
She does it with her juices, her death and life bringing juices.
That's what the text says.
It uses the Latin word for juice, sucrose, and it's like from plants, right?
Talk about medical guys, talk about what kind of juices of what plants do what, right?
Now that's usually translated drugs.
It's usually translated drugs, especially because Medea's reputation.
We have texts that say, as a matter of fact, this one does in just a few lines, that Cersei,
who's known everywhere in that little triangle between Libya and Sicily, where she's predominant,
where she's powerful, and you can feel her influence.
She's known to be, nobody knows more about drugs than she does, and she fears the understanding
that Medea has of these juices.
She fears it.
So the most fearful woman, the most powerful woman, is afraid of the power of this virgin.
So what are they doing in antiquity?
The text goes on to talk about what she can do.
She is the master of Orpheus.
She is the one who founded the right.
It's her right.
She is the cup.
She's the one whose body became the processing device for the communion blood, right?
The essence, call it the hyma, right?
That juice, which is the essence, right?
She is the drachyna who is coming after the initiate, the one who is entering into death.
Yeah, great stuff, great stuff.
We can talk about oracular prophecy coming through that great Hera, through the trinity
of the Hera Aphrodite and the virgin.
Those are the three that focus their oracular power on this process of bringing this voice.
Some people have been asking about that, right?
And about interacting with that voice.
Imagine a world where there were other entities around you, forces that controlled what was
going on, interacted with and controlled, right?
Imagine if you could interact with those what you can.
Your eyes can be open and you can be as gods.
You can.
There is a very powerful initiation that is preserved by Lord Byron, by Lord Byron.
You should be able to use that initiation to gain the power of the logos.
Yeah, for those with ears to hear.
Fantastic.
And for those of you who are coming, for the evangelicals coming that I always say the
same thing to remember Jesus Christ was arrested in a public park at 4 a.m. with a naked boy.
Remember that.
Tonight, we're going to move to a couple of guests.
We have the delicacy of some company tonight.
We've got Rob from England.
We've got Rob.
Rob, thank you for coming.
Rob, I appreciate it.
Thanks for having me.
Can't follow that though.
That was amazing.
Thank you.
After Rob, gracious Rob, after Rob is snappy and snappy.
Thanks for coming.
Thanks for having me.
And last but not least, we have Chthonius.
We have Chthonius.
And tonight, I want to go ahead and say thank you tonight.
What I wanted to start with you, Chthonius, I wanted to ask you, we have a lot of people
who have come out of cults, and they've gotten to that point that they've seen some, whatever
element of reality it was that woke them up, and they said, this is not right.
What's going on?
And they stepped out of these cults.
I think we have a particularly sensitive topic with you.
And that is, you seem to have come out of a cult that has political power to it, right?
A political cult.
We'll just say the, I'll let you define it, but can you just tell us a little bit of where
you've been and how you got here, you know, all the way from there?
How do you got to this place of thinking differently?
I used to support Donald Trump.
I used to believe in his Make America Greater Again agenda.
What I didn't see is what he was really doing with Christian nationalism.
I didn't see that what he was promoting was through, mainly through Christianity and anybody
that seen his like macho, chauvinistic, egotistical ways, I didn't see that when he was controlling
the Christians, that he was arming hate groups, like the Proud Boys, and how he, I knew that
he was on Epstein's Island, and I denied it because I believed in what he was doing.
I thought he was really going to make America Greater, but all he was doing was fulfilling
an agenda that I don't know.
And if he would have kept going, if he would have got office again, or if he gets office
again, I feel like Trump would be doing the same thing that Putin would be with trying
to go after a group.
And he did not like Agans.
He didn't like the LGBTQ community.
He seemed like he was really racist towards Mexicans and blacks.
He was sexist, and he was an egotistic opportunist.
And how I got there is learning about Christian nationalism.
I never really heard that word until I heard the group talk about it.
And now I see Putin doing it as well with the Ukrainians.
Putin uses the church to his advantage, and that's what he's, he's arming his citizens
with that.
And that's exactly what Trump was doing to the Americans.
What do you think, what do you think, Thonius?
My question number two, and then I want to follow up with Snappy and Rob.
My question number two is the first flag that entered the Capitol.
The first flag was the, was not the Confederate flag.
I was expecting, as soon as I saw it, I saw it watched it live, like most people, as soon
as I saw it, I was like, oh, they're going to have Confederate flags there, right?
Which they did, and they've got Trump's face.
But the first flag that went in there wasn't an American flag.
It was a Christian flag.
And I thought, my question for you, Thonius, is why do you think these people who went
into our Capitol, why do you think they carried the Christian flag in right after they defecated
in it?
That was because they were using it to their advantage.
That was their whole thing, that he was God's chosen appointee, it seemed like.
That's what he was trying to, he was trying to kind of, in a way, deify himself as like
a king of America, like a dictator in a way, that he truly won that election when he didn't.
And they were using Christianity to arm themselves, to make them, to brainwash them, to think
it was okay.
That's what I think, truly.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, snappy, snappy.
The same people that stormed into there, the same people are the ones who would take somebody
who would put on a feminine kit and might take them out and do something to them.
They might, you know, they might put laws, they might make laws, their laws being made
around the world against LGBT communities.
What, is that what we get with the theocracy?
Because what Chthonius is describing is a theocratic, an attempt of a theocratic takeover
of the US.
We all live through it, we all watched it, and we're all shocked, like, what do we do
now?
Right?
Snappy, what's the future for all of this?
Oh, you're muted, sorry.
We really have to stand up and help the people who are being scapegoated in this time and
recognize it for what it is.
Like, this is an opportunity to divide the country, right?
And they're using a marginalized group of people to vilify them and to get all of your
hate wound up.
You know, they play on people's insecurities, they play on people's fragility.
You know, they first, they abuse you and they make you a man or a woman and they tell you
you can only be that and they force you into this dichotomy and they force you to be a
specific way.
And now when you're seeing other people who are trying to live differently, they use that
against you.
They point out those people who do not follow these strict laws that have been forced upon
you in an abusive, controlling way, and they make you hate those people who refuse.
And we all should be refusing to follow because this kind of oppression is the problem.
And we got to be really weary.
Like I was watching TV the other day and Charlie Kirk came on the news and he was talking about
how they needed to take people like me out and hang them by the trees like they used
to do in the 1940s.
That's where this is going right now.
And Putin is saying the same thing.
He literally just went on TV and was saying that the West is trying to make God by gendered.
Pretty sure God is beyond gender.
Like, give me a break.
Hey, Rob from England, across the way.
So we've got Canada.
We've got Canada's word.
We've got America's word.
What does England tell us?
Tell us about this movement.
I mean, we just had an insurrection, Rob.
Give us some advice from England.
It's tough.
It's tough to give advice for England, you know.
You only hear what we hear.
So I interpret it as with this presentation, you've done and with the comments made.
Like, how'd you launch a thousand ships?
We call it the face that launched a thousand ships.
But was it the face that launched that thousand ships?
Was it a sacrifice that launched a thousand ships?
And who wanted them thousand ships launched in the first place?
And what was his game?
And what was he up to?
Because that's basically what this guy's doing, isn't it?
He's using corrupt means for gain power.
That's all I can see.
I can't see much else in politics if I managed to read you completely.
There's far too much corruption involved for me to weave through and try and pick out some sort of hope there.
Because from my point of view, the train, the train then lies and deceits the technicians.
They don't get anything done.
They don't produce anything with a value.
And I don't have much time for them, to be honest.
And how that affects America and what you've got there is, I don't know, chain off your TVs.
OK, now each of you, now each of you want to do, sorry, I'm excited though.
Because I want each of your opinions and I want like a very short 30 second take on it.
I'm going to play that video again and I want you to pick out.
I want you to pick out the message that you work for each of you, right?
What's the message you're getting?
Chewy, could you play that please?
Everybody in the world knows that men don't think very much of women who are easy.
Women who are easy.
Having a virtuous wife is being like a rich man with big sack of rubies.
Your husband is blessed.
God is favoring him by providing a wife, providing you for this man.
Easy, easy, easy, easy, easy, is the ruler of this world.
These titles and many more signify Satan's capabilities.
We must remember that God has given him domain over unbelievers only.
Believers are no longer under the rule of Satan.
Unbelievers, on the other hand, are caught in the snare of the devil.
Lie in the power of the evil one and are in bondage to Satan.
Satan is the God of this world.
It's not saying that he has ultimate authority.
It is conveying the idea that Satan rules over the unbelieving world in a specific way.
These bad guys at Corinth are satanic.
Self-righteous respectability, that's the beating heart of Satanism.
Abortion, God is forgiving.
Born-sites, God is forgiving.
And we think, oh, you're starting to introduce moral chaos.
No, forgiveness of sin is not moral chaos.
But I believe that God has built men to engage with the world
and God has built women to be domestic.
Between Presbyterians and twerking drag queens is not to display an admirable neutrality.
This only happens when the state has decided to side with the Kinky tribe plus.
And everybody in the world knows that men don't think very much of women who are easy.
So I'll start with a comment with a 30 second comment.
And what I took from that is I would not have met that man ever teaching my daughter.
Rob, you're up next.
What do you think?
Been on every NLP course you could go on, weird associations.
And they're all dropped in there, all on some sort of scheme or deft way of winning your favor
in some fashion, appealing to some sort of misguided loyalties to the church
or to being domesticated or being misguided, completely misguided.
I've got it from Rob.
Fantastic.
Snappy, you're you're I see weak inept men that are terrified of the power of women
and have to abuse and control them and subjugate them for their own amusement.
It's beyond disgusting.
All right, from Snappy, subjugation.
Excellent.
Chthonius, what's your take?
I see it as them trying to take away the power of the woman.
They want this dominant masculine thing to go on.
And they fear the woman, like Snappy said.
And I also see how the non-believers of that if you don't believe in their God, you're a Satanist.
So they want you to be depended on their God or they're going to label you as evil
and they don't understand even what they believe in or Satan at that.
Yeah, then that's the perfect.
That's the perfect way to end this, because aren't we just just in view of the fact
that we're their natural enemy, right?
Because I'm not going to stand with a group that wants to that wants to take a group,
be it a gender or be it an ethnic group or whatever, people with people with glasses.
I don't care anybody that wants to take a group and either torture or destroy that group.
Those are not defenders of the Virgin.
They do not know the great mother.
So who do we stand against?
I know one thing.
We stand against these guys.
And if we can do anything with our magic, we do it against them.
You know, thank you guys for coming tonight.
Hail Satan.
Thanks for having me.
Hail Satan.
Hail Satan.
