Rwy'n cael ei ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud.
Rwy'n cael ei ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud.
Well, you got me to come back, and I appreciate it because here and now on this sabot, we can finally be in a place where we can function freely, and we can find that thing called the unassailable freedom.
My job tonight, since you've given me your time and attention, is to bring you the things that you haven't seen or heard.
My job is to show you how to have ears to hear.
I'm here to profane the mystery that is, I'm here to make it clear to you so that you may enter into contract with Lucifer, the morning star.
That contract is an exchange, esoteric understanding of the universe for your soul. It's very simple. You must be born again.
And it's my job to put you in that time machine, to stuff you in that time machine and to take you back to the place where this was all done.
I need you to be able to taste the dust. I need you to smell the funk.
So I need to be able to take you places that honestly other people don't want to go or can't go.
The first principle I'd like to convey to you, anyone who appears with me will appear with a head shaved in mourning.
We are in mourning who died. What's that I smell? It's the death of Jehovah.
I am going to show you what Otto Kern discovered.
Otto Kern was a German classical philologist in the early 20th century.
And Otto Kern said there is something being used in antiquity.
This cult language will call it the Orphic Vox.
They are hiding the mystery within the Vox.
It's a language within a language. It's what the Pythagoreans called the Upsilon.
The left-handed and the right-handed path. You can read any text.
But if you read a text that is encrypted with the Orphic Vox, you can read a text that is only for those with ears to hear.
That's the expression. For those of you who have ears to hear.
That's my goal tonight is to give you those ears to hear.
I'm going to do that very simply by just transporting us back.
I'm going to show you a never-before-read text. This thing has never been translated into English.
I'll tell you how we found it and I'll translate it for you.
And you will be in a place that only you who are sitting as initiates are able to come to.
Hail Satan!
Before we begin, I'd like to consult with your voice during this process.
I know that you are serious and I know you want, you don't want the theories.
Look, I've been watching you. You don't want the theories.
You don't want the professors and the academics to come out and to tell you their theory that they somehow created in the midst of some cognitive circle jerkery.
You don't want that. You want the actuality.
The historical reality is far more interesting than the drama that you hear and reject instinctively.
You reject it. I know you do.
Children, children need to come as children.
For the first time, we're going to look on this material and it's going to blow some minds of the way that people think.
But I'm going to ground you in a time and a place where you'll never forget it and it'll make its mark on you.
I'm using the images now of the mystery.
Okay, so we're going to learn how to read some Orphic Greek and we're going to break the seal.
We're going to break the seal and just by way to shock somebody into their senses who's going to start watching this and participating.
If you've come to this classroom, realize you don't know anything.
You have not read the Bible.
Don't say that you have.
Don't try to quote it.
You don't know what it is.
You haven't seen it.
You haven't read it.
Okay, that's what I tell all the seminarian students that I have.
Yeah, and they realize that I'm telling them the truth.
You haven't read it.
Don't tell me you have.
Don't tell me you have if you've gone to church.
Don't tell me you have if you know King James and the smell of his underwear.
I don't care.
You haven't read it if you haven't gone in the Greek and I'm not talking about.
I'm not talking about Bible college and I am not talking about seminaries because I mean you need to swim in the depths of the Greek.
And that's what I'm going to do for you tonight.
I'm going to bridge that gap because I can do that.
And here's a wonderful opportunity for instead of me trying to sell you something, by the way, that's the test.
Nobody gets in the door who sells stuff.
Right.
There's no sales here.
You can't profit.
I don't want your super chats.
Okay, I don't want them.
I'm going to keep tabs on what you're saying.
I got a watchdog here who's keeping tabs on what you're saying.
And when you say something relevant, she is going to bark.
Right.
Okay, so I'm excited and I appreciate the fact that you that everybody has been so supportive.
Hail Satan.
You know, on that end, let's just let's just jump in and and see what we can do here.
Do we have anything in the chat?
Let's do it because any comments here that we need to consider.
Once you just go ahead and read it, bark it out.
Go ahead.
We'll get our format down.
Let's get that snake by.
We got snake.
We got John's apocalypse.
Yeah.
Okay.
All right.
I see where you are.
You hungry.
Feed them.
They're hungry.
I'll feed them.
I apologize.
Let's proceed.
Let's put ourselves in the time machine.
Close door.
Everybody's in.
We're good.
We've got a document because we're necromancers.
We're going to use human thought as our wave.
We've got a document from antiquity that we can say a few things about its date.
We know that it's preserved by one of the early imperial physicians.
Yeah.
And we know that it's a addressed to Nero in a funny kind of way.
It puts Nero in the place of the divinity that you are imprecating.
Yeah.
Now who's going to know this?
Nobody.
Nobody is going to know this.
You can take the documents that I show you.
You can take them to a classicist.
You can force them to read them to you.
Yeah.
But nobody studies this.
Nobody.
Why am I studying this?
And why am I bringing it to you?
Because the muse told me to.
And because she very intelligently led me right into this pathway.
Ancient pharmacology.
Oh, we have this great text.
So we have this great text.
Go ahead and bring up.
It's number three there.
Bring that up on you.
Yes.
Oh, and look, what is this thing?
Can I just tell you what this thing is?
Here we go.
We're almost there.
The world has almost changed.
Let's give it one more.
30 second interval.
It's repeating cycles.
Anyway, look at this people.
Look at this.
Bring up the score here.
Oh my God.
Andromahoo.
Theriacay.
Dia ehidnon.
Oh my God.
Hey.
Colomene canene.
Oh my God.
You know what that is?
This is the Theriac.
This is the beast.
Theriac is the beast.
Look at it.
You grubby little.
You're so.
You love it.
You got the beast right up front, right in your face.
This is the beast.
It's called the Theriac.
Does anybody know what a Theriac is?
Nobody knows yet what a Theriac is or they're not fast enough to type.
So what is it?
It's the word for serpent or beast or a wild dangerous thing.
We've translated it with the word beast in English,
but a Theriac is a multi component formula that's used in religious
rights.
And on the medical side,
what you and I would call straight up medicine,
but they're not.
They're not distinguishing between medicine and religion.
Right.
So when, for example,
when you're giving a woman,
bringing a woman to the point of birthing,
that's a ritual.
Right.
They're singing involved in that.
You know, we don't.
We don't feel that way.
We don't feel that way.
We don't feel that way,
but they did.
So you should understand that.
This is what how culture transmits that spark is known as called it.
You know, beautiful, beautiful.
Okay.
So our time machine has come to rest and here we are.
We're stepping out.
We're going to start in the first century with Nero because we know this thing.
Go ahead and put it up again.
We know this thing is written to Caesar.
Right.
Right.
Put Caesar's name.
What is this?
It's couplets couplets of verse.
Right.
The Theriac.
That which is called Galene or she who is called Galene.
Galene means.
The calm.
The calm.
And this author who is writing this is using a formula.
That appears to date back to the late bronze age.
Heavily my city and influence.
You know, they've got all the poppy kind of the poppy trade going on.
You know, the Cypriots and the, the temples of Aphrodite.
Or heavily, heavy, heavy, heavy on the opiots.
And they're in the formula, which we'll read to you.
We'll read.
It's, it's, it's in the formula.
But the world is not the place that you think it is.
Yeah.
Unless you've been there, unless your feet have gotten dirty, you're not going to know who
the beast is unless your feet have walked in that soil and you can't do it.
You can't do it.
I've watched you guys go on your shows.
I've watched you guys sit and listen to each other, seeing how you work.
Yeah.
You can't use those texts that you use.
Right.
We don't even, you're shut off.
The only way there is the muse.
That's the only way you have to find that pure stream.
They called it in antiquity.
And the ancient Greek preserves it.
The ancient Greek.
Let me just tell you something to tell you something about me and about our satanic cult.
And you're really dipping into such depth with the Greek and people say, well, what do
you mean?
Well, um, your English, your English skills.
Your English skills are presumably from maybe most of you.
Your English skills will be a reflection of the last 800 years.
When you're dealing with a Greek text, you're dealing with several thousand years distilled into
these language, into this language.
And so the expressions that you get.
Now I could show you one word logos, for example, you try to define it as word.
And, and when I show you what the definition of logos is and how it's about eight pages
long and hundreds of examples of different forms of the word, you would be amazed.
You would realize, oh, I'm swimming in a deep gulf.
That's where I have to get you.
And that's where we're going to go with this text because I'm going to use that to hypnotize
you.
Yes, somebody asked how do you, how do you find the muse?
That's a good question.
That's something worth answering.
Yeah.
Remember in the center, the autotone, they call it, of the temple.
It's the part that carries the image.
The adolon in the central point of the temple of the muse is a phallus.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So how do you find the muse?
I would look for beauty and I would look for a phallic center.
Yeah.
You can't get away from that arrow.
As we're learning magic because I'll show you a couple of magic texts and you'll, I mean, the bad stuff too.
By the way, I thought I should probably say in all fairness, we need to, I need to issue a warning.
The material that I work with, the educational material that I want to expose you to, it tends to be difficult to digest.
Not because the concepts are hard to understand, but they are so shocking to our Victorian senses that I'm typically required to maintain a very family-friendly scientific terminology for these body parts and the processes they go through and the things that they produce in the communion.
And when it comes down to it, when people find out that the communions for the ancient mysteries were body fluids, sexual fluids, you know, and you're reading Galen and you're like, oh my goodness, how long is this description of the, the serious component of pre-puberty male ejaculate?
Yeah, it becomes, you know, you realize what they're, and what they're doing and kind of the depths to which they go.
I swore when I was a grad student and I was pulled into my committee for, it was overseeing my dissertation, when they told me, the head of the department got me by myself and they said, you'll get your dissertation.
As long as you take out the chapter on recreational drugs, it was, it was pharmacy in Rome.
They said, take out the chapter on recreational drugs so to get your PhD and I said, why?
And they said, the head of the department said, the Romans just wouldn't do such a thing.
I almost laughed, I almost laughed, I had to stop and I vowed at that time to always dig as deeply as I could possibly go to see the real.
And I've seen some, for example, Smyrna. This is, this is the perfect time for us to mention Smyrna.
You know, the time ship is cooling. We're going to step outside and walk around, but as it's cooling, you know, we have this thing called Smyrna.
You can get Smyrna from the priestesses on Cyprus.
Yeah, the priestesses of Aphrodite, and it's an oil. It's an oil compounded of a toxin that is used in arrows in Cythia, by Cythian archers.
And these are, you know, these are real Amazonian, Black Sea, Bronze Age types.
I've got an actual video of one of these that the Ukrainian Joan of Arc that I want to show you in just a minute so that we can have a living image of the Virgin Mother.
Yeah, Joan of Arc. Another comment here, it looks like, yeah.
Yeah, what incense are we using? Lord Sobek, it's always with the incense. I hereby charge you with the keeping of the Templam, and you must always assign us an incense.
Right, we're here in mourning. Keep it to the books, Sobek. We're here in mourning, so mourning the death of Jehovah.
So, yeah, tell me about the Smyrna. Oh, it's this gorgeous stuff that you, it's got a beautiful, any perfumers in the group, and I'm not, all I do is read about what they did in antiquity.
You probably love this. They're oil based, and they use myrrh, things like myrrh and frankincense as the bases for the oil, for the Smyrna.
And they use nard. They use something called Syrian Nard, and tracking down these drugs is no fun.
It's no fun because they're hard to identify. But most of them, you know, thanks to the medievalists, we kept a pretty good track of which plants and which.
So, yeah, anyway, some Syrian Nard. And, you know, you've got your opium and you've got your purple.
And that's that stuff you get from the smallest that lives at the, you know, the Mediterranean.
Pull that thing out. It's why the Phoenicians are the Phoenicians. You know why they call them Phoenicians, don't you?
It's like Heracles dogs, baby. It's why they've got that purple stripe on their mouth. Yeah, you got it. Sometimes the eyes.
Yeah, that's that's cool stuff. Cool stuff.
Um, we'll save that. Yeah, we'll save that. I think we're on a good train. We got to go out and take the folks out into the ship.
Please pull up. Please pull up our text or holy text. If you'll all turn with me to today's him.
Arthariac of Andromachus. Number three. Yeah, there we go. Okay, I want to read you the first couple of lines of that.
Cluthi polithronio briaron.
Briaron is a word that he's using in here to modify strength, but it means like the ultimate, the highest.
And it's used in cold. It's using cold context all the time. It's gorgeousness.
Anyway, sinos antidotio. First couplet. Let me finish the second line so I can get the first couplet in.
Caesar ademantu ddotor elewtheories.
Bring up my face. Yeah. Yeah, there's no translation of this. So I will translate it for you.
Fortunately, I've got a couple of cheats because this is written in a form very, very similar to the Orphic hymns.
The best daters put the date on those at around late Bronze Age, pre-Homeric. Yeah, good stuff.
Anyway, the late people who date those things late, they're guessing and they're terrible linguists because we have Mycenaean influence.
So that's early. Mycenaeans early. That's the old Greek. That's this stuff. That's this stuff. That's the name of a god in Mycenaean linear B.
The Medeo. Or the Medeo. Or the Medewa. You like that? I like that. Anyway, Caesar. Yeah, so you can see what's addressed.
What it's doing is it's following liturgical performance. Right? This is liturgy. This is a direction. It's a song.
So we're guiding the images in the song to fit the initiation. You can imagine that you're sitting.
Yes, we actually have a text that you could hear if you were sitting in an ancient initiation. Let that sink into your head for one minute.
I have brought you today a text that has not surfaced in 2,000 years into our language. I'm bringing you now.
I'm making that temple, that temple that I say temple, that temple of Babylon. I am making that tower connecting to you through the waters.
Here we go. Hear me, Cluthi. It's an implication. Who do you normally implicate? This is what they said. Did you hear the priestess? She's singing now.
She's got the Smyrna on and the Smyrna is on her private parts. That's important because we're going to drink a mixture of her ejaculation.
That is going to put us in the place where we can see everything. Not just our dimension, but the other one that...
I don't know if you guys are in my dear right, but the one that sits over us and occupies the same space.
They can work out the physics, but that's what we're here for. We're here to bring that resurrection.
You say, wait a minute. Resurrection? Are you kidding? Are you Satanist? Yes. Here's a key for the word today. Satan.
Satan. You'll be told by the... Well, some. Mostly by the people who do the Smyrnaic languages.
Oh, God, we have to figure out where this is from. It can't be. It's got to be from Hebrew or American. It's got to be... No.
It's just Smyrna from Mycenaean and the rogue gets swallowed into the new, which is common.
So Satan is Saturnian worship. It's Saturnian worship. So get your holiness together.
Land on your feet and realize that we have a type of mystery that is from the Bronze Age that is functioning.
Yes. For your perception, the thing that you should know right now that you didn't know is that Judaism and Christianity are the development of Satanic Bronze Age mystery cult.
This is where the sons of God got all their drugs, right? A lot of drugs. Can we go to drugs yet? Are there any drugs? We've got to keep reading our texts.
I've got a question. Let me consult with that.
Yeah, so you're noticing Saturn and Satan as being the same. Yeah, very much so. Very much so. So let's show it.
Instead of me giving you BS, let's just look at the text. What does that text say? Bring the text back up, number three.
Yeah, hear me. And who do you usually hear when the priestess starts saying this? She's imprecating the God that you are worshiping, the one whose power you are drawing down.
The witches call this drawing down the moon, right? Because that's the goddess that they drew down.
But in our initiation, in our Saturnian or Satanic initiation, who are we calling down? Who's it?
And it puts Kaisar into the place, Nero. Interesting. Interesting.
Sounds like some sort of interest must have been in the palace with Nero. If his priestesses are going to be involved in this court magus of his.
He's called an archiatrix. Yeah, an archiatrix, right? The first, he's the highest physician.
There was a time, long story short, there was a time in Rome. First century, there's a medicus or a doctor who is assigned.
Usually someone with Greek training who is assigned to the whoever happens to be in power, whichever of the emperors happens to be in for the day, right?
And that archmage position ultimately becomes the body physician, right? By the time of Galen and Marcus Aurelius, because that's really what Galen is.
He's the personal body physician. Anyway, so it only makes sense that Galen is bringing us these old, you know, look at this, look at what Nero's, look at what Nero's number one physician.
Look what his arch doctor said. Yeah, and here it is here. Okay, let's get into the formula and let's see.
Ruthi polwthroniu priaron stenos ante dodol. Wow, what is he saying? Yeah, listen up, Caesar. Here, oh, Caesar, put in your ears, Caesar, what?
The unassailable strength of the polythronic antidote. The polythronic antidote. Polwthronos is a word, just literally means many thrones.
But I told you I was going to teach you some Orphic Vox. And here's where we start. Polwthronos, polwthronos, right? Polwthronion, that word, many thrones.
Throne is farmacon, a power. A throne is a seat from which power is administered. A manythrone drug is a polypharmaceutical. Okay, you could have just said that.
But since you have ears to hear, you know this is where these powers are coming from. You wanted to see the throne of Satan, right? Give me a hands up if you wanted to see the throne of Satan.
Because that throne is that pharmacological power. That's why they call them wizards, sorceresses. Let me go to, I'm going to go to your questions here. I'm being told there's a, what is that document you keep showing?
What is that? Good question. What is that? Yeah, well, it's a, you know, German edition of the corpus medicorum gricorum, if you must know, nosy bird. And it comes from those Germans in the early, oh, it's probably 28, 29, 30, something like that, who were doing the body of medical works from antiquity.
You know, we have these great medical works. Nobody knows about it. You go to any classicist, you can ask them, right? Give me some works on antidotes, right? There's a whole, there's a whole genre on antidotes alone. Galen has like a 700 page book on antidotes.
Nobody ever touches it. It's full of, full of stuff that makes you, it makes you wonder. Okay, I need to take them back. Hurry, we need to get them on board with this. Give them a stiff injection. Yeah, so hear, hear me, hear the great strength of the many thrown antidote.
Okay. Caesar. Yeah, what kind of antidote? It's got a name. It's got a three word name. Ademantu ddoddor el Eusteries. Oh, it's beautiful. The giver of unconquerable freedom. Or, and when they say unconquerable, they mean you are in a position of not being able to be overthrown because you have no faith.
Fear. No fear. It turns out God was a liar. Yeah, in our universe, take a look outside, step outside the ship and take a look. Because in our universe of this first century, where Paul reads the Septuagint in Greek, because there is nothing in Hebrew, he reads it in Greek, and everybody quotes it in Greek.
At this age, we have to say, what is this? What is the, what is going on here with the words? What are they showing us in the words? Where are we going? And that's what I'm trying to do here with you, the giver of unassailable freedom. Wait, did he just call a drug, a provider of freedom? Yes, and I'll show you a hymn that will show you the savior through home.
You can actuate the mystery. Yeah, it's amazing stuff. Remember, we're profaning. We're profaning. On that next line, on that next line, line three, El Dion. He says, look, she's got names. They call her things in different places, right? That third line, he la reine. They call her he la reine. You've heard the word hilarious in English.
This is the original hilarious. You want to know what that was? That was a procession of buckets in March, opening the month of Mars at its apex.
Now, love it. Love it. And who do we worship? We worship civilly. Why do you think we're mourning? Because he died. And we're going to raise him again. Isn't that something? Who wants salvation now? Who wants salvation? Yeah, he la reine. They call her, they also call her what?
Gileine. They call her the peace. That's like the peace, rest, calm. And they call her El Dion. El Dion comes from, comes from El, prefix El, meaning good or well. And Dion, what looks like we think it's probably from Zeus, ultimately, from the word for God.
Yeah. So that which bestows the El Dimon. Yeah, cool. Why? Because you got to remember these people are, you've already taken a drug, you've already taken the communion, and you've entered a state of frenzy, right? And you're dying.
So you need Gileine. You need the antidote to bring you back, right? Remember, I forgot. All of this is about resurrection and birth, rebirth, death. And your vision of the cosmos, something that I cannot charge you for, technically.
Your vision of the cosmos is that process. And this is a prison. This is a prison. That is because we stepped out of the timeship, right? This is how the world is working. This is how the quantum cognitive stream is flowing.
Okay. So these are resurrection, death and resurrection mysteries. Okay. Yeah. So he's about to go through a list of drugs. And of those drugs, I just want to put some of these plants up here.
He mentions opium. And remember, opium is not a big deal because, you know, Virgil in the Georgics tells us how to cultivate opium. He writes a work about farming and he tells us, this is how you grow opium.
And because they're using a ton of opium and antiquity. And it's in medicine. It's a huge, you know, killing pain is a huge deal, right? I mean, she got kicked out of the garden, right? Forced into that episode of pain, right?
Because they took away your drugs, right? You weren't supposed to open your eyes and make her like us. Bronze Age. It's Bronze Age cult. Fantastic. Lots of snakes. He's about to talk to you about some of the snakes that are involved in the cult.
And he tells us in one line. In one line, I just want to mention, he tells us that these things are even more powerful. Galane, the theriac, the beast is more powerful than any toxin of any serpent.
Yeah. So these people were heavy, heavy, heavy. Flash up some serpents. Heavy, heavy, heavy into the venom. And in this one, they add scorpion venom. They add scorpion venom.
So I'm not quite sure if the guys in Pakistan who are now smoking scorpion might be able to fill you in on the intricacies of the psychedelic benefits, health benefits of smoking the scorpion.
But it's in it. So the toxin is in it. And remember, this is the luscious part. You know you want to hear it. Throw me up some more of the drugs. We're also talking about, oh, hemlock. Everybody loves hemlock, right?
Yep, there's the hemlock. Pretty. Oh, that's nice. And everybody talks about that because Socrates had to drink the hemlock, right? But they know it can be used at low concentration, right?
You just don't pound it when you compound it. You make it with the right dosages of everything. And when you do that with the hemlock, you turn yourself into a party guy.
You find these people in the streets on all fours, right? It's legal in the taverns. You can buy all these drugs in the real marketplace, right? You buy everything from all over the, you know, their trading influence, right?
So, um, yeah, but you got the spices and you got all the goodies and you got all of these, these North African vipers that they're selling the venom.
They're selling the venom of the viper in the marketplace, right? So you take these, Luke is the one who tells us that if you, if you want to look him up.
It's in his civil wars. He's quite his civil war. He's quite this aficionado of snakes and the different types of venom that can do different things to your body.
And, you know, there's so such cool descriptions in these medical texts. Oh man, you get, you get bitten by the dipsass.
And what is it duty? It's a horn viper from north there. Oh, look, he showed himself on the screen. Yeah. Yep. Devil is always there. Right. See his horns.
Now you know why Moses has horns, right? Bring it back up. No, bring us up. Bring up. There he is. Take a look at him for a minute and realize that you're milking him and you're adding him to opium.
And you're adding him to things like hemlock and the deep purple dye that comes out of the bottom of the Mediterranean from that shellfish.
And you're taking that and you're anointing. That is, you're greasing up, you're lubricating an alabastron.
Right, which we all know. I've told you guys that before. That's Mary's medicated dildo. Right, because in antiquity, you don't have injection technology.
You know, they don't make those tiny, tiny cage needles and put them to stick those things. No, but you got a perfectly good avenue up your backside.
Right. You know, put drugs in there that can have immediate access, you know, and, you know, there might be benefits to, and so, you know, you know what neighborhood you're in, right?
You have the aphrodisiacs and you got the, you know, you got the priestess and she's with the hymn and she's got the, she's got the purple in the Smyrna that is then being ejaculated into the tripod.
And all of a sudden you're in a, you're in a polypharmaceutical wonder world. And what happens to the fetus? This, you guys will love this.
I mean, we got to, if we're, if we're doing this all the way, we got to tell you what they're doing. I mean, this is usually where I get interrupted.
Right. But I want you to know this. Right. She, under the influence of the God on Sabbath, is able to ejaculate your hyma of communion.
Yeah. Yeah. And that is part of a process that contains her embryo and the drugs that either killed that embryo and flushed it into your communion or allowed her to produce the son of God.
Right. If that child lived, bathe that thing in the viper venom. And what do you get? You get two out of three dead babies is what you get. Right. But that third, that third is a giant, a giant.
Yeah. They, they say you burn off their mortality. Does anybody want to know how to burn off your mortality? I would like to know that. I would like to know.
It's women. It's women who have given us this. Right. And this is, this is before proto Hebrew. Right. This is, this is before anything that you think is even remotely what you call Christian.
It's the foundation for Christianity made by women. Right. The first example we have of a savior is a sautera, a female savior who is the great midwife.
That's right. Many of you out there don't know your own mother. Right. But she stands at the gate. This midwife stands at the gateway, the entrance when I was kicked out of St Mary's University and charged with demon possession and portal opening.
Right. You don't get portal opening without her. For those of you who want the quantum physics, I don't care. Figure it out. Become geniuses. It's not my bag. The point is that the first savior is a woman.
The first savior is a woman. There is a good reason that Jesus is arrested in a pre-dawn raid of a public park with a naked boy. The only thing they got off of him was the medicated bandage that was on his privates.
You know what you can do. Bring us the Spanish fly. Can you bring us this? Yes. Now that's not the Spanish fly. That's the result of too much of the Spanish fly. Where's the, there is a Spanish fly. Right.
This little guy has a tendency. He's got a stuff under his wings. He's got this ooze. You can take that stuff. It is incredible Viagra. It is a vasodilator. The Romans swore by it, by its proper, by its proper preparation. You could take somebody who's impotent and give him a sustainable erection.
And put them into what they called priapismos, priapism. Don't you love it? That guy's worshiping priapus, the God of the erection.
And what comes from priapus. What comes from priapus is the communion. You didn't think you'd get out of the devil's party without an awakening, did you? You get the seed, the hyma, the essence. That's what you get in the dirty, dirty, dirty book of Ezekiel in the Bible.
Hold that thought. The demons below want me to... Yeah. Very nice. I like that. Very nice. Yeah. So let's get started, shall we, in the incantation. I want to bring you, speaking of Amazons.
Amazonian, Black Sea tribes, Late Bronze Age. I want to show you a modern Joan of Arc. And I know some of you want to see this. I'm bringing you this clip from Newsy.
And thank you to the Intrapid Newsy reporter who went out to find Joan of Arc in the midst of the war and was bold enough to have some questions, some great, some not so great. But in order for us to find Joan, here she is, Joan of Arc. Go ahead and play, Joan of Arc.
Incoming artillery. Spot the target, dial it in and fire. It's a tactic she knows well, because Emerald is a sniper. We met Emerald in a fully blacked out part of the capital, Kyve, far from the trenches she lived in for months.
It's a very important scene.
Coming back to her home in Kyve with no electricity feels oddly normal. And so now does being a woman fighting with an otherwise all-male squad.
Just me. Just you. And a lot of men.
And were they always respectful to you?
Yes, they really respect me and they said that I'm a war genius.
They said you're a war genius. Did you have a nickname?
Yes.
What?
Ukrainian Joan of Arc.
That title and her bright eyes and flaming red hair, the army emblazoned on a patch they made for her.
So you have to be pretty special to get to that point when your country calls upon you to go do this. And that's what they did. They looked her up because they knew how good she was in her own field.
Now any man out there who thinks that a woman shouldn't be in the military, yeah, Joan proves you to be the mind controlled fool that you are.
Yeah.
How do you break out of that ceiling? You know, there's a ceiling there that says certain things have to be certain ways.
The Satanic Prime Directive is to follow reason, not faith.
You see this in the medieval trials of the Satanists that they refuse doctrine or dogma.
They insist upon reason that reason is the reason is the gift of the one who doesn't lie.
You follow.
It turns out Satan is called the liar, but the very first liar in the book of Genesis, the very first liar is God.
God says we don't want to eat that tree because their eyes will be open and they'll be like us.
He doesn't want them to have that knowledge, right?
And he says when this happens, this will happen.
The devil says who's the guardian, right?
Who's this devil dragon guy guarding the fruit, right?
If you know the cult, the Bronze Age cult, you'll know what that dragon is.
The dragon, the Greek said this, dragons are temple guardians, right?
They're usually guarding relics.
They have something to do with relics.
And you usually have Medusae as a kind of class of dragon, right?
They've got that poison.
They put it in their hair that puts you down immediately.
It's a neurotoxin.
They just got to nick you with that stuff, right?
It turns you to stone.
So Lucifer is there with the tree, right?
And the fruit.
And he's like, no, he doesn't want you to do that because your eyes will be open.
Well, what happened?
Their eyes were open, right?
So this is where the Nag Hammadi comes in and kicks us all on the undercarriage, pointing out that God Jehovah
has no foresight.
Isn't that a simple principle?
The great mother just told you something about the father of God.
He's got no foresight.
He can't see the future.
If he could, he wouldn't have put him in the garden in the first place.
He wouldn't have had to kick anybody out.
He's a failure.
And it turns out she's the ruler here.
Now, and so what was the dragon doing?
The dragon was guarding the fruit of Ewa, right?
What happens to me in Greek, the shot of the Bakken.
The shot of the Bakken.
So, okay, where are we?
Where are we?
We know.
I just wanted to take a little perspective here.
I need you to see that when Jesus is arrested in a public park at 4am with an achid boy and a medicated wrap.
I need you to see that there is something going on here.
He has the boys' hyma on his face.
He asked not to take the cup.
Something in the cup is bothering.
By the way, what's the cup?
We'll see if we continue reading, translating this text to Nero.
We'll see this theriac.
We'll see that the cup is the savior.
They provide you with the communion.
They are the cup.
And that colpost or that vagina was that original cup.
They looked at the uterus as the chamber of death.
And it's from that death, through the savior, she who guards the doorway.
That phrase, I stand at the doorway.
Guess what?
Just like money is the root of all evil, that is not new to the first century.
It's not new.
The Satanists were testing people with money long before Jesus was ever saying.
Hey, money is the root of all evil.
Those are Vox.
Those are the woe case of the voices of the Orphic dragons.
In the end of today's session, and I want to go to questions now,
because I think we've looked at enough text and people have gotten enough in their brain
enough to chew on that I'd like to go to you now so that you're not just sitting there,
because I appreciate your time and I want to acknowledge your time.
And I want you to ask some questions.
But I want your questions to be directed toward that which we are venerating.
We are venerating that midwife, that great mother who is the source of death and life.
And why are we doing that?
Because this is an initiation.
The Romans, and you're about to do this, whether you like it or not.
You are going to meet her.
She is leitwm. She is death.
And if you know her now and she brings you back to life to a new birth,
then you will have ionic life.
And you say, what is ionic life?
We don't have the concept today.
We translated that one as eternal life.
We took a wrong turn through the Latin. It's hilarious.
No, it's ionic.
And the ion is outside chronos.
The ion is that which bounds it.
The Pythagoreans talked about this.
This was one of their contributions.
Anyway, let's get to your questions.
If you want ionic life, let's talk about who would like to go ahead.
Give me a good question here.
Burning off immortality.
Are you saying women dams are immortality?
No, no, no.
What they're doing is they're taking the child and they are burning off its mortality.
We have this depicted vividly with the Ellicinian mysteries.
And it's a frightening process, frightening process.
And it kills two out of three.
So what do we do though?
Are we killing our own children?
The physics of it, this is cool, I read this.
The physics of it are that you are actually entangled.
With a number of souls that inhabit the all of being, the cosmos.
And those souls can influence things that happen around you.
It's basic ancient necromancy.
It's absolutely fantastic.
But if we're going to take you to initiation, we need to look at that.
What happens to the soul?
The only way to figure that out is to separate you from your body.
Wait, we'll get to that.
Another question.
Okay, precess pithia, can you tell us what's in the horse cup?
What is the porneia?
It seems obvious, but I want to hear it from the devil's lusty lips.
Oh, I like that.
That's a lot of alliteration there.
I applaud you.
Who is that from?
Brian.
Brian, Brian.
Okay, excellent.
A poet used to make me want to smell the essence of Lord Byron.
Yeah.
What is the cup of the porneia?
Right?
Yeah, because whoever drinks of it, what happens to those people?
Yeah.
And who is she?
And they always separate her because I know you're talking about Brian.
I know you're talking about the horror of Babylon, they call her personally.
Personally, I think is a terrible name.
But they always want to separate her from that woman who is having that child.
You know, Joan conceived on the battlefield.
We all think that she's the Virgin Mother, but we will find that child and we will devour it.
Right?
Chapter 12 of the Apocalypse.
Remember, these writings belong to the Sibyls before they do John.
Right?
They're calling the early Christian Sibylists for a good reason.
Okay, Satanism.
I'm showing you the operation of Satanism, which gives birth to Judaism and Christianity.
Okay, let's go.
Let's get another good question.
Have you read Pascale where we read off the claim that communion was semen when the sword started the sex magic movement?
Western.
Okay.
When it comes to things that I've read, I listened to my advisor who told me the secondary stuff.
Anything anybody else has written about it, forget about it.
Right?
You don't need theories.
Go back to the primary sources.
So unfortunately, the depths of my knowledge come from the primary sources.
I'm comfortable with those of antiquity and the Renaissance.
So that's kind of what I contained myself to, but you had a good point.
Communion was semen.
Remember, we have the sources that tell us about the semen communion.
We know they have a semen communion.
Some people don't like it.
They're trying to tell other people to stop.
Nicholas is using his wife, just like Simon, and he's got the whole thing set up where the woman is the center of the mystery.
Right?
That's original stuff, bro.
That goes back to Medea.
Right?
That goes back to her.
And so, yeah, it's original.
The savior is a woman.
Right?
She's supposed to be a woman.
And why is that?
Why is that?
Because only her body can make the communion.
So are these communions, sacs communions?
Yeah, and it's pissing off certain people.
Don't say it's angering the Christians.
Right?
It's angering some of the Christians.
Right?
The ones, you know, what about the ones that are in the underground?
You know, you know, all those Romans, they're always arresting people because it's turning out somebody's taking somebody's kids.
Off the street and abusing them.
Sexually abusing them.
And then you get into the, you get into.
Okay, here you want to go somewhere safe.
I'll take you somewhere safe.
I have seen a priest become possessed with the devil to sodomize a boy who had been starved for weeks.
Strip naked.
Oiled from the bottom of his feet to the top of his head.
That's a religious, that's a religious phrase used in cult.
Right?
And then sodomize.
Now the boys task is to scream out the refutation.
Right?
This is the early church.
This is what some of the things the Romans were were were bringing him up on charges for.
Especially in Alexandria.
Alexandria is a hotbed for this.
You want to be involved with your boys?
You go to Alexandria.
It's no reason that Clement of Alexandria and Pseudoclement, you know, talks about Jesus performing the mystery on the boys.
Right?
It's no wonder he talks about that.
A lot of the stuff is coming out of the area.
Maybe it's cultural there.
Maybe it's, I don't know, you have to, but it's tolerated.
And anyway, the Romans get involved because then you can't, you know, law is law, bro.
Right?
So.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So what do you do with these priests anyway?
What the goal of that?
You got to get this though.
This is the.
This is the.
When you put that boy into that state.
What's your doing?
You've drugged him.
Right?
And what you're doing is you're causing him to enter the ecstatic release.
Or gay or orgasm, as you, as you and I would call it.
Right?
And his ways in that state, he's supposed to renounce at that climax.
He's supposed to shout out and renounce the devil who has possessed the priests who is sodomizing him following the way of Cain.
Right?
He's administering that drug anally on his own medicated.
Odi par.
Yeah.
And that kid is supposed to shout out.
He's supposed to say no.
And if he does, then he's saved forever.
All right.
And we're told by the author of this.
That the catacumin or the kid that's involved sometimes can be emotionally distraught.
You got to give him a bat.
You got to baptize match this, right?
Wash them off.
And sometimes they're distraught for weeks.
Right?
Afterwards, you have to talk to them and they'll ask you.
So they'll ask you questions.
What?
Why the nakedness?
Why did I have to be naked during this whole process?
Because Jesus was naked on the cross.
Right?
There's relationships.
You know, it was a, he was taken.
They were giving him anti venom.
When he don't tell anyone this, this is just between us.
But they were giving Jesus anti venom on the cross.
There's formulas for that specific anti venom.
And it causes that thirst.
And it's from that dipsass snake.
It causes you to be really thirsty.
So no wonder he's sitting there crying out about being thirsty.
And then, you know, spills is when the, when he gets lanced spills out a ton of water with his blood.
Right?
Because he was drinking a lot.
He was thirsty.
He didn't want that cup with that boy.
Oh God, how am I going to do this?
But he did it.
He ended up doing it because he got the stuff all over his face.
The Galen has described to you.
You'll describe to you what prepurial boy ejaculation is like.
Right?
This is not something new.
Saint.
Let me just add this pile this on.
Then we got a girl.
I'm talking too much.
Back to questions.
Saint Cyprian comes out of the graveyard with the viper venom drooling out of his butt.
I'm sorry for my family guest.
Out of his rectum.
What else should I say?
Out of his anus.
What is the proper?
What's the proper term?
Out of his hole?
No, I don't think it's now.
I think the most, I think the most polite term would be out of his buttocks.
Anyway, he's with a couple of prostitutes, so-called, and he's in the cemetery.
Was he doing the mystery?
Bet he was.
Right?
Get thee behind me, Satan.
Yeah, so we've got a lot to learn.
There's a lot that, you know, if we're going to grow this baby, if we're going to grow this baby inside of us that's the son of God, you know,
then we've got to learn our drugs and we've got to learn what they're doing with the drugs because we've got all the specifics there.
And part of this formula that I started reading at night, that I'll maybe continue next time, talks about what time and where and how often to have intercourse during the process, right?
Because the ejaculate is the, I mean, imagine it, they're taking a drug from a person.
They're taking a drug from a person and that person's body is creating the substance that allows you to kick yourself into the visual, the dual universe that exists around, you'll see two sons, right?
Promise you.
And you'll know.
And once you know, you'll be able to speak the language then, you'll understand and you'll have ears to hear.
You'll have ears to hear.
And you'll be able to calm the winds, right?
Because you have galane.
If you have her, you have everything.
And that's what Nero's arch doctor is talking about.
He's grabbing that from an ancient, ancient religious right.
And yeah, let's go quickly to questions and then I don't want to take forever.
It's been an hour and you people have graciously given me your time.
I just want to see if anybody have any feedback.
Do they have any questions about gaining the ears to hear?
That's what we're doing.
Are there other ways for people who don't have access to these exotic ingredients?
You know, this is a question that I've gotten a lot in the past two years.
I discussed my research with Dr. Carl Rock, who was the one who broke elusus that, hey, they were using a drug and elusus, right?
Everybody's like, ooh, they could.
So I send my research back and forth to him.
And there's been an author who has taken my work and other people's work and woven a modern piece on the communion.
And I get that question.
Oh, how do we?
OK, so say we're a billionaire and we want to have access to this thing.
We're not going to build a giant penis shaped rocket ship.
We're going to build a drug that's going to shoot us to the other side.
Yep. Yep.
We're going to come back and we're going to have incredible power, quantum power.
We'll be able to entangle everyone, control everything.
The muses voice will write everything.
It's gorgeousness, right?
Yeah.
No, you can't because you have to have a person.
You have to have her.
You have to have that goddess who can produce for you the substance that makes you alive from death.
That which brings you back.
That which puts you into death and brings you back.
You have to be able to have that priestess, that oracle.
And we don't.
We don't have that oracle.
You would have to have been raised chemically.
I mean, think of the complexity of this ancient system.
They're bathing their fetus in the drugs that they themselves are using in the rights intentionally to have a specific product.
That can carry the voice.
That can carry the voice.
You know, the mini throne.
This is mini throne.
You've seen the throne of Satan, right?
That seal, by the way, is it called trojisco?
And you put those in your bottom and they dissolve.
Right?
So when it talks about breaking the seal and the beast, know that you're in the right neighborhood.
And this is all that matters.
Everything else is bunk.
And if you can't do the Greek, learn it.
I'll teach it to you.
I have a bunch of students right now teaching them all Greek and the ones that are aggressive.
They'll get there.
They'll get there.
And you'll be facing Adam.
You'll be facing Adam.
Rivers.
And it all comes back.
It all comes back to that medic queen.
And that's why we need her.
That's why she is Lady Babylon.
That's why she is the enemy.
Right?
When people know that Jesus Christ was arrested with a naked boy, it changes their attitude.
I talked to a street preacher.
The sheer logos.
Shear logos.
Talk to a street preacher about that naked boy.
And you could see his universe unravel.
And you could see him left with the reality of what he had.
Now, I didn't give you any theories tonight.
I didn't tell you my ideas.
I didn't tell you what I think.
I gave you ancient sources and told you what they said.
Right?
And that's where our strength will come from.
I want to develop with you, the audience, the Orphic Fox, so that you can enter that death and resurrection, and you can see her visualized.
You can see her.
All we have to do is kiss the devil's anus.
The anus is a word for an assistant who prepares a drug.
We have to kiss her.
She's the one who knows everything.
I think we're going to look for any brilliant last minute questions.
Why didn't he want our eyes open?
Was there an actual reason given?
He didn't want you to be like he was.
That was the reason.
What does that mean?
Nice question, Gina.
Eve didn't get it.
She got the apple and ended up naked.
She got the fruit and ended up naked.
She got it.
Right?
Why wouldn't he want your eyes open?
What a great question.
What kind of God, as long as we're blasphering?
Consider Jehovah.
Consider him.
He kicks out his own wife.
He takes the queen and kicks her out.
Forbids the honor.
Forbids the honor and turns into this sex-hating fiend
who couldn't get it right in the first place
and had to kick everybody out of paradise.
He's got no foresight, dude.
Dude has no foresight.
How can we follow that?
It's a shame.
Here at his death, we have to mourn this entity.
Imagine an entity like that.
A woman-hating entity.
Right from the very beginning.
A woman-hater.
It's not something.
You've got to cover your head.
You've got to cover your head.
No, you don't have to cover your head.
If you want to find freedom, shave it.
Shave it and speak, woman.
Speak.
I love it.
I wish you were all Joan of Arc.
Are there any Joan of Arc?
There's got to be in this audience somewhere.
One of you has the voice.
One of you.
Just one of them has the voice.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Zoe's tree.
Zoe's tree.
Adam and Edith.
Yeah.
And Eve.
The shout of that
of that
unconquerable freedom.
That fearless freedom.
Do you have that?
Have you ever been promised that by Jehovah?
No.
I promise the opposite.
That's the whole point of Job.
The devil is able to come to him and say,
look, your people just follow you because of what you give them.
And then he takes everything away.
He's like, no, no, no.
Take everything away.
He takes everything away.
And then what happens in the end?
Jehovah gives everything back to him.
Plus.
And so he's,
look who he is.
You just proved the devil's point.
You just proved his point.
Your people follow you because of what you give them.
Now is the time of morning.
Shave your head and mourn.
Enter into that death that you might have.
Ionic life.
That's the mystery.
Gorgeousness.
It's gorgeousness.
Don't worry.
There's a woman's mind behind it.
We're safe with that.
We have female intellect guiding us.
I don't think we can,
we can go a foul of the way of the Taliban.
And by the way, you women and I ran good for you.
You high school girls who stood up,
best students I ever had, high school girls.
Hands down.
You high school girls who stood up and took off,
took off your,
your bondage,
your fabric of bondage.
Let your voice be heard.
Now are the women and their daughter's will venerate you.
Good for you.
That's, that's alive.
Man. That's alive.
OK.
That's enough.
Now one more last one.
We got one more comment here.
Yes.
Exactly.
Exactly.
All right. Good.
ar y dyfodol.
Ian ei wedi arfer,
y nifer o'r llwy yn ysgol,
a roeddaeth i ni,
gan gweithio i hyn newid meditation.
Wrth ychyd MK toeth
dy nif dde unig,
yma'r dod o prob arena'ou y ysgretaeth.
Ciych chi'ch chi'n d dn.
Dw i ar gyfer y fforddwr sefydliadau y Unifedig a ddechrauburnid
y maesulaced Friends deall mydd Presidio I informative by the Bishop you know it
was at the time I didn't consider it, but you know it's quite a great honor to be
in a position so heulau sio e'w swnri a'i bwyll iawn iddysgol I consider, I excited,
Syme chi'n gwneud pan weithabod o'i wneud connects C  Adriaw adeil.
T  Thair dr Policy  Sawa A Ly kost nitol.
ond! Be unexpected! This day that is hours! This day of Saturn! That is hours! Beginning in darkness!
This is how our time is! This is, and I'm gonna keep bringing you
the freakiest, most disturbing, real text! You can see what that world was
Os ydy dahil, nyon you yn imaginadd y dy produoli'u, ond pen goethwnne nes ychydig,
nitwne ddechisio ond, ar y gwleidydd j helpau yn cael cael ei hefyd
a i ni wedi bod yn iawn o erbyn yn y ffryd.
Y Llywodraeth Cymru
