Rwy'n cael ei ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud.
Rwy'n cael ei ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud o'r ddweud.
Welcome back. It's nice to have you, and I appreciate your audience. I see that there are a lot of comments tonight already, and I'd like to get started.
I've brought with me tonight Rob all the way from England. Yeah, and he is here. He is going to be the master at arms here, and he will look through your questions and anything that strikes him as particularly inspired because we are looking for the best of the best.
He will, I'll ask him and he will throw to the gallery and we'll see. I need to have some interaction with you tonight in this process of initiation, but before we begin, I need to remind everybody that this is a satanic initiation and that we do not accept any sort of cash or reimbursement or any sort of gold or silver or whatever currency or glitch.
Of electric space you decide to invest in.
It's corrosive. So that brings us to our topic or opening topic for tonight. Before we get to the secret text, we're going back to ritual right and I've got some, some very good ritual for you tonight, but we're going back to ritual.
And before we get there, I want to start with just, I want to park our space timeship in, oh, let's say, oh, where should we go tonight? Yeah, yeah, I feel it. Can you feel it? Oh, I feel it coming. Here it is.
The dark harbor. That's where the destination is tonight is a place called the dark harbor. And here where you cannot serve God and Amon, we hold a sacred space.
And we do so through guarding these texts. And that's what I'm going to bring to you are some texts in.
If you were there in the first century, if you step out the door and get a whiff of the air, it's the first century. Yeah, and the dudes, it was, you know, we started to have our money all in common.
Yeah, so we sold things off and we gave it to Peter and this one guy, this one guy and his wife, they sold their stuff and they didn't give it all to Peter.
And what happened? Peter got really angry and a couple of people got smitten. Yeah, smiting, thorough smiting and dead. And what is funny is most people know this episode.
This is Ananias and Sapphire that I'm talking about, right? From the Book of Acts. Most people know that episode. But John Goldenmouth, who is this wonderful, oh, he's a wonderful, wonderful scholar and teacher and great homilyrider.
Yeah, he's into the mystery. He knows what the mystery is. You know, he's living too close to it. And yeah, he says, you know, it was Peter, right? Okay, the miracle that happened, you know, it was maybe, maybe not so much fantasy, because at the time that it happened, people didn't mourn the death of these two.
They didn't mourn them, right? They just, they went in, you gotta understand. They went in to Peter. In front of Peter, closed the doors, opened the doors to dead people, right?
Smitten, smoded, smut. And you don't realize what the effect of that was. Watch the effect. John Goldenmouth says it's not. It wasn't about whether or not there was mourning for the dead and how the reaction of the crowd was.
It created an environment of terror, of terror, and that kept the community operating. Isn't that marvelous? It's fantastic. I'm well done. Well done. We're going to look, now we're going to go to a text and we're going to look at this in living. I want to, I want to, I want to step further in.
Okay, you know the atmosphere, you know how it is. Those of you who are in the cult, and I'm sorry, but the warning is tonight, you're in a cult, right? You're looking at the cult from the inside. That's the perspective that I will give you is to be gazing.
I'm offering you the Templam, right? You think Templam is a building. It's not. Templam in its earliest form is a space. It's a space where an Etruscan Haruspex comes out, quarters the universe. Yeah, and creates a space in which can be housed the image. And that image reflected into your reality drives everything.
It's the quantum physics. By the way, I've made a very nice, just by the way of break, and we'll jump in the text. I want to let you know that I've been trying to follow along with you as well. And we have a lot of very intelligent people out there who are jumping in and want to participate in this group.
In this group, I'd like to take us to that group where I can respond back and forth with you. So Rob, keep an eye, keep an eye. Rob, is there anything incredibly intelligent that has been thrown out there or something that we must, is there anything we have to grab on to before we continue?
I don't want to. We've got to discuss the paper reel. We've got to go into the paper. That's what we've got to go. That's the biggest question of the night, and should be answered really. So I'm up for answering that.
But I don't want to stop you waxing my lyrical. I don't want to interrupt that. But yeah, we want a longer show. Nobody's got anywhere to go. We want to leave.
Okay, okay, Ron.
Don't talk about the people at some point.
Okay, just jump in whenever it's, it feels, whenever you feel the spirit, Rob, whenever you're moved, jump in. Okay.
I will. Okay.
Fantastic. So we started out tonight. We're going to go to a very special place. I want to start with our dead physician of Nero.
I want to go to his work. And I just want to look at a couple of words. And then from there, I'm going to take you. I want to show you the dark harbor and what it is. And I got to warn you on tonight's journey. You may feel disoriented.
You may feel things around you are changing. Don't let that temporary side effect of multi dimensional travel disturb you.
Just welcome. Welcome. It's a, it's a pleasure.
Okay, hit it. Let's pull up.
Andromicus. Give us andromicus, please.
All right. I want to go back to the first lines.
And I'm going to read it to you in Greek so you can hear it.
And we'll speed up our translation until we get to a point that, you know, we just reached this rich soil. Are you ready? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Hear me. Right. Hear me. Right. Learn. Learn the incredible strength of the mini thrown antidote. Oh, Caesar.
It's the giver of unassailable freedom. Hear me, Nero.
They call upon her as he la rain. They call upon her as galene. They call upon her upon her as aeudion. And who is the they? These are the hidden eye that we're talking about. What is an hidden eye and achus is a viper.
Mm hmm. What is an echidna? An echidna is one of the Ioboloi. The throwers, the slingers, literally the slingers of poison of Eos.
And that Eos is printed in this text. Who are the echidna? Right.
Mm hmm. Here we go. We're in the right. They call her these three names, right? They invoke her. Right. As these three. And then we get a funny hey ku anon uk othetai li minon.
And that is most literally she who does not have a mind for she who does not have a regard for that is she who is unafraid of of what the cyanic harbor, the dark harbor.
That's who we're invoking. Yeah, and you asked me what is the dark harbor.
And I'm going to take you to the dark harbor.
But before we do before we get there, that's just the beginning.
He then from there talks about the different venoms that Galene is able to navigate.
All right, good.
And he says, even the Poma Medes, the Poma Medes, the sacred communion or the sacred drink.
Yeah, the sacred drink, the sacred. If you want to translate it potion, you can translate it potion.
But the potion of the the means who follow the medwa. The medwa. Yeah, isn't that nice? That's that's nice.
So where is this harbor in order to get you to the harbor? I want to step toward it and the direction we're going to do that is through because because we're necromancers, right?
For those of you who don't already know or you missed the meeting, we're necromancers and we call up the ghosts of the dead.
Yes, and we bring them. We bring them. I have a special project for anyone who is interested.
I'll just throw in this announcement for anyone who is interested in this necromancer tactic practice.
If you would like to talk to a ghost, I have one for you.
And I have a and why would you do that? Why would you call up a ghost, right?
Because only for one reason because we want to talk to the devil, right? We want to know.
We want to have that oracle. That's why we're necromancers.
Yeah, it's a switch your poles for a minute north to south, right? Just turn them around under these circumstances.
All of a sudden, we find ourselves as communicators with spirits of the dead.
This is the necromancer ancient world and it has to do with a lot of mathematics.
I met a physicist this week was finishing his PhD in condensed matter physics.
Yeah, and the changes from phase to phase.
And he's looking at mathematics. He's looking at mathematics. This is very interesting.
He's looking at mathematics and he wants to know how it is because he's an engineer as well.
And he wants to know how it is that the Greeks were able to engineer with calculus when calculus hadn't been written yet, right?
Yeah, so I went over to the shelf and I got my Greek mathematics book down and I opened it to a random page where the muse led me.
And it's the calculus through the language that they're able to convey.
They're able to express the calculus with their own language.
They're algebra and you say, wait a minute, the Greeks didn't have algebra.
Let me show you. Let me show you the Greek mathematical words.
Let me show you. This is fantastic stuff, dude.
What was his name? The Archimedes, right?
And what he was able to do, this stuff is, oh, you guys are going to love it.
It's fantastic. Some of these texts are crazy, but...
Yeah, go ahead.
I spoke to Lord Byron. It's one of the comments from Duncan.
Absolute brilliant comment. I spoke to Lord Byron. He's quoting you.
He's quoting you. So how are these physics working when you're talking to Lord Byron?
Yeah, okay, good. Excellent direction. How are these physics working, right?
So basically, you have to draw the spirit.
You have to draw the spirit and then control or bind the spirit in a binding that's akin to...
I think the physicists call it entanglement now.
Yeah, they call it entanglement.
So you bind Byron and force Byron, like Jung, who I'm very rude to and for good reasons, right?
By the way, okay, we should go to Jung's red book because everybody knows that Amun is in it.
Everybody knows that Jung is looking for the girl who is the half viper.
Half girl, girl viper.
And why is he coming up with that? Was it something that he was into?
Yeah, you see why we need this cult? Why we need to go there?
Yeah, so okay. Ask the question again to me, Rob, please.
Man, we've got to go with the purple. We want to know what this purple is.
You want to go to the purple? Okay, good.
It's got to be a discussion. We've got to discuss the purple and the chattas.
It's full of purple and we want to know what the purple is.
Nobody really knows what the purple is or understands the purple and it should be cleared up.
And that's why we need to go directly to the...
Okay, this is going to require a bit of harsh things that are going to get kind of ugly from here on out.
Rob, you know, we're going to talk about the redhead.
So let's go to a passage. Let's open up to a passage of...
This is Gaius Valerius Flachus and he had access to the sibling books.
And I just want to put this quote up for you.
It's an excerpt.
It's an excerpt.
Let's see if that is prominent in Medica Mina.
He's this with Geneus Cwesinus Ipsum Cwai Monile Wenanus Implicat.
Yeah, again, Gaius Valerius Flachus.
And he's one of the people who has access to the sibling books.
And he is writing a work, a metrical work on his waxing lyric.
He's writing a metrical work on Medea.
And so I just want to bring that back up again and I want to translate that for you.
Okay, it's talking about Medea.
And what is she doing?
She is bringing out medicines from her quistis.
Quistis, you know, that sacred basket, you know, the minads carry around, right?
Um, yeah, she's, she's going to it and she's taking out of it death bringing text, please.
Death bringing.
She's pulling out of the death bringing container.
Yeah, containers, the best way to express it.
The death, the death bringing container.
She is bringing out these medicines.
Yeah, what is that container?
It's the harbor we're looking for, right?
We're looking for a harbor.
I thought you were, okay, well now we've got a container.
And from that death containing thing, she brings medicines.
Quote, please.
And the rest of the quote is, and now this is where we buckle your seatbelts.
Okay.
Yeah, what is she doing implicat?
She implicats them to implicat is to engage something in the activity for which it was made.
Yeah, um, um, yeah, to apply.
Yeah, um, she's, she's working over something with these.
Medica Mina, she's, she's applying them somehow.
Um, to what?
To two things.
That's what the quake way does in Latin.
It's beautiful that both this and that bring it up again.
Um, we're going to see us.
Right.
On the one hand, it's her.
We're going to see us that she's applying it to.
And on the other hand, it's her monelae itself.
So the question is, what is she doing?
The word.
We're guineos is obviously, um, from weirdo.
And if I were to ask you now, I'll just lay down the definition for weirdo now.
The definition for weirdo is a girl of marriageable age.
Right.
This is not, this is not virginity as you and I think of virginity.
Right.
So, um, yeah, these, this is an age of priestesses.
Right.
Those virgin priestesses.
That's awesome.
Right.
We build a giant building on top of a hill and we'll put one of these virgins in it.
This giant statue will give her a big spear and your helmet.
Right.
And she'll carry the aegis, the aegis.
What's the aegis?
Oh, it's got a head of a Medusa on it.
Yeah.
It turns you to stone.
Yeah.
You can't the virgin once you get in the virgin's way.
That's it, bro.
Right.
If you're not clean, you, you dead.
Right.
So, um, what does she do?
That's virgin.
Long story short brings the quote.
That's virgin.
I'm going to try to make you taste this text.
I want you to taste it.
Right.
I want you to feel the authenticity.
Nothing else.
You'll see, you'll see.
I feel the authenticity.
So if you can bring up, see us here.
There we go.
And you'll notice.
You'll notice that it's essentially a curve.
Right.
Beth ydy'n cyffordd Culpos. Felly, mae'n cyffordd Culpos.
Yn cyffordd Culpos, nid ydych chi'n gwybod.
Yn cyffordd Culpos, mae'n cyffordd cwysig i gyffordd Culpos.
Mae'r cyffordd Culpos, rydyn ni'n rhaid i gyffordd Culpos, rydyn ni'n cyffordd Culpos.
ond dyne ibod y fath i gyntaf i ddedigio pob, y minimum hywethaf
Go yw Alice
Alice yn Endrofodurio Cllwy Th� Springs.
Coder olenes Mi'n iawn i ddweud i'w archsfordiov...
Fe fenyd tapu Hayl Satanan Rob?
oh ondlaughs
ar y haf y sig
Castel Walcom
llwod SAI
y어� chwarae archsfordiov
If we didn't have those guys, if we didn't have those dragons, we'd be nowhere.
But if you go, if you go, if that page were back up here, and it's okay, it doesn't need to be.
But if you go to number two, you'll see Eidioion.
Well, what kind of Eidioion? Eidioion Gunagheion.
This word is particularly, this word is particularly the female genitalia.
Okay, bring up the original Latin text, please.
Yep, this one. Oh, beautiful.
Excellent, so thank you very much. I appreciate that.
Monile. Look at Monile.
Yeah, what is a Monile? And it's not just any Monile, it's Monile Ipsum.
Her very what? Her own Monile.
Now, if you look this up, which we can, we can go ahead.
We can show them the extended definition of Monile.
Yeah, look at this necklace or collar, right? Notice that it starts talking about jewels.
But something that you might miss is that this is the Latin Gemma.
And I just want you to keep that in mind.
And look here, we have the relationship to Greek, Mianos, or Mionos, right?
And those are from the word Mianos, and are root for mania, right?
So to be in a state of mania, maniacos, right? Anyway.
So what she's doing, and that fits the text that this is from,
because Medea does this with her body, she does this.
And when she is, when she is done, it says she turns into a fury and runs off.
She runs off and she's ready for battle now.
But she's putting this stuff on her, it's okay, it's okay.
It's on her virgin, on her virgin sinus, a sinus is a sinus.
It's an opening, right? A pocket, right?
A pocket that you could have safe harbor in.
It's the very word for harbor in culpros.
Culpros is means harbor, right?
So we're halfway there, all we need is the dark harbor.
Where is the, where is the darkness?
Yeah.
So, and that's why we need the echidna.
You got to have those viper girls if you're going to have them.
I've got a question name.
Yeah, go ahead.
Can we go back and draw that Alice back up?
The Alice that you just had up.
It says worn by boys, worn by horses.
Blow her down.
What's that mean?
No, no, not that one.
No, not that one.
No, there we go.
There we are.
Yes.
We have boys.
They eat in her keelio.
She spends her money in a colo.
And a colo worn by horses.
Mm-hmm.
Yeah.
What's the secret you can say?
Yeah, what is it?
Yeah, so what is, okay, so here's, here,
we need to take the next step as philologists.
See where it tries to derive the word
and it gives you the Sanskrit that it's related to.
It's a Latin that says we get Gemma.
Right, so, so wait a minute.
Monilie and Gemma,
where these things have to do with each other.
Bring up Gemma.
There we go.
Gemma, right?
Look at the top here from Gemma.
There's where your Greek is.
Is, at its essential, a swelling.
Yeah, a swelling.
And what is a swelling?
An antiquity, a precious stone,
or a bud, right?
Mm, nice, nice.
Yeah, but if you, if you read on the top
and you just go ahead and you click on Gemma
and you keep tracing, you keep following the word back,
you get that swelling is ultimately a pregnancy.
Yeah, so when you reach inside the dragon's head,
you pull out that stone.
And this is for those of you with ears to hear.
And I'm jumping ahead, Rob.
We're getting to the, we're getting to the redhead, right?
We're getting to the redheaded boy.
Okay, so I got a few comments on redhead.
I feel you're answering Duncan G.
He's on four.
What's that?
I'm loving the comments.
Okay, tell us about some of the good comments.
Thank you everybody for joining in on the comments.
Loving it, thank you.
What kind of things are being discussed in the comments, Rob?
Oh, it's kind of getting current with what you're saying.
So then comments with the redhead and the pale skin,
with a few comments back.
But he's on the right.
He's hitting the mark, hitting the redhead's pale skin.
And I'm thinking what's coming.
So jump ahead, jump ahead.
Carry on with the redhead.
So let's jump ahead.
Let's jump back in the timeship.
I know I'm a terrible, I'm a terrible date.
But from here, let's blow this joint for now.
And let's go.
We're still, we're still maintaining that.
We're finding that dark harbor.
Right.
And let's jump ahead in time to the 12th century.
We've got this thing called the Codex Wallewani.
Yeah, and the Codex Wallewani is this terrible.
The Latin is awful.
It's a murder.
I'd rather go outside and fight with the coyotes and the dingos.
I'm completely serious in our range war that's going on here.
I would much rather do that than work with this Latin.
It's awful.
It's no one of the guys in the Renaissance turned around and they're like,
they were like, you know, this language thing is awful.
We have to go back to what Cicero was doing.
And you read guys like Petrarch.
Oh, you would love Petrarch's secret.
Oh, and I almost forgot to tell you.
I was, I started to, let me mention it now, now that I remember.
For those of you who want the extra challenge,
and you want to get in.
You're interested in the necromancy side of this satanic initiation.
Go talk to Lord Byron.
Lord Byron, follow the way of Cain.
The mystery, the way of Cain.
Lord Byron.
And when you get there, you'll find the devil.
And the devil will speak to you directly.
And you will speak back directly.
For those of you who have ears to hear,
you know and respect this process.
So again, it's necromancy,
but you've got to call up the dead to do that, right?
Go get Byron the way of Cain and working.
Rob, do you have anything to say about the way of Cain?
Yeah, I do about the way of Cain.
We've got to learn now how to get older the way of Cain.
It's a play, it's a play by Lord Byron.
It's worth a read.
It's worth getting older of it if you can.
Give it a read, and as you read through it,
you'll understand what Armand's on about.
You'll understand you'll get the idea behind the way of Cain.
It's a very good read.
I really enjoyed it myself.
Did you enjoy your conversation with Lucifer as much as I did?
Yeah, I did.
It's getting around about to that reason.
The reason behind.
It kind of gets into morals and reasoning.
How does the devil strike you?
Reasonable.
That's the way it goes, isn't it?
It's reasonable.
It's written by Lord Byron.
He's a clever guy.
He's a clever guy while educating an individual
who's formulated this narrative
to take you on a journey that initiates you.
The initiation for me is a change of perception.
It's a new part of knowledge coming into you
that you can use yourself.
You can use that knowledge yourself then.
I'm thinking a little bit more.
If you're reading from these guys who have tried to blame things down
for that purpose,
I'd say that's the magic for me.
That's the magic when you read it and it changes your perception
and you think, oh, I get where this guy's coming from.
You have to buy it and become it.
What it means is, you acknowledge it to me.
I don't talk too much.
For those of you who want to talk to Lucifer,
I encourage you to.
For the rest of you who just want to come along for the ride,
or to maybe such a personal calling isn't there
or isn't there yet,
I recommend some more Medea.
Let me just make sure I finish covering this text
before we get to the redheaded kid.
I know that's the fun part.
Look, guys, we're going to spit someone tonight.
This is great. You're going to love it.
I want you to see, I just want you to make sure that you understand
that text with Medea is talking about what she is doing
and she is getting ready.
She puts this on her private parts.
She puts it on her private parts and not just on it,
but in it and makes herself into this fury.
You might could say,
Menad.
But the text says fury.
It turns her into a fury.
This medicine that she uses.
Later, you remember that she is the black vulture
that tortures Prometheus.
Everybody loves Prometheus, right?
Everybody loves Prometheus.
She is the one. Get this.
She takes a drug from blood that comes from his liver.
All right.
So now you're going to want, again, you're going to be disorient.
You're going to say, am I in fairytale world?
What? No, no, no, let's stick with reality.
If we go to the codex Waluwani from 12th century, right?
We read the Latin.
It's just a base description of Medea's fire or Greek fire.
And it has a nice group of ingredients for the incendiary.
Beautiful.
But within this incendiary formula is sandwiched these instructions.
And I thought I would just bring those to you
and let you digest them.
The first thing that we do is we need a red teenage boy
with lots of pimples.
Lots of pimples. The more pimples, the better.
That's my addition.
It's the more the better.
The text just says, with the pimples.
So a youth with pimples has to be the red hair.
You take this guy and it says you lure him into a banquet.
You lure him to a banquet and you give him drinks
that will put him into the Bacchic state.
That will put him into that influence state possessed.
Into that possessed state.
And after 30 days, you keep him in a banquet
that is designed to fatten and heat him.
Now, you don't let him get near the dancing girl.
Don't do it.
It's always they have to stay at a distance.
He has to be able to see him and they're there,
but he's not allowed to satisfy himself.
So this is, again, this is from the codex Waluwani.
I think it's a Welshman.
I read a guy who did a dissertation on it.
It's a crazy text, but his Latin is awful.
It's absolutely awful. It's just painful.
But here's what you do with the boy.
Now, is everybody with me? So you've got him.
And you keep him this way for 30 days, it says.
Now, during this 30 day period, for those of you in Satanic initiation
who were interested in the alchemist side
and in the psychedelic renaissance,
this is probably the part that you would enjoy.
So you take a copper pot and it describes a covering
that's made for it that has what's obviously some kind of pressure release.
And you put this thing, it's a cauldron.
You put it on a overfire and it's for heating.
Well, anyway, you take this thing, this cauldron,
and you put toads into it.
Toads.
And you feed those toads a regimented diet for 30 days.
And it includes the milk. It includes milk.
You're actually attaching them and forcing them to take nourishment.
It's obviously not meant for, you know what I mean?
It's not meant for toad consumption, right?
It's not a bug.
But you take them for 30 days.
And after, I think it's like 15, I don't remember how many days it is,
but then you add this sea snake or sea crate.
It's some kind of, it's a sea snake.
And you have to have fed it though.
You have to have fed it. Just hang in there with me.
Human flesh first.
Human flesh first. I don't know why it makes a difference.
I'm just interested in the pharmacology, right?
Anyway, so you keep this thing going for 30 days,
and there's other things that you pile into it.
And you make this kind of half living, half dead concoction
that you're going to now boil and what looks like maybe
distillation or attempts to, you know, good alchemy.
You know, it's good stuff.
Anyway, so your redhead boy after 30 days, what do you do?
You're stuck with him, right?
Well, you haven't even got, it's not even why you brought him, right?
You haven't even achieved the effect that you're looking for.
You take that redhead teenager, you know, who's under the influence
of tremendous amounts of drugs, and you take this guy out
and you lay a bed of coals down and you put a spit over it
and you tie him to the spit.
Now, wait a minute, why do you do that?
Because you have to keep him a certain temperature, right?
You have to raise his temperature.
So, and then you cut his wrists and you bleed him.
You bleed him, right?
Now, it says you're supposed to bring him just to the point of death,
just to the point of death.
You put him in that intermediate space, right?
And then, unfortunately, the text doesn't say you bring him back,
but I think we would be remiss as scholars, if we didn't notice,
a ritual here of burning off what they call burning off mortality.
So, the redhead is actually, he's one of these Scythians, you know,
and he's doing his thing, he's going through his initiation.
And yeah, and does he come out of it?
I hope so, I hope so.
I hear two out of three babies don't.
Eamon.
Yeah.
Eamon, we've got to come out from Ariel.
Hi, Ariel.
It's David the redhead.
Oh, David the redhead.
I'm not sure.
Come back with that, Ariel, please.
Because that's interesting, real interesting.
I'll find that very interesting.
Was David initiated?
Can't imagine I'm spitting.
David, is that an initiation?
Some connection there.
You don't know what happens to that redhead,
but you're not done with the formula yet, right?
Because you're taking his blood and you can't let it coagulate.
They say if it coagulates, it's no good.
It's no good.
Yeah, so you have to keep it.
You have to keep it from coagulating.
And then they take that with the blood of a dragon.
And what you take from his head when you cut it off.
And these dragons are the guys like the wolves who are living out in the caves.
Yeah, it's pretty cool.
You can trap them with the right drugs.
Offer them the right drugs, right?
And they will be subdued.
They are, I don't, they say a dragon is scary, feared by all.
It's neither a god nor a mortal.
Neither a god nor a mortal.
And the one that guarded Medea's fleece, feared only Medea,
was considered a god killer.
And if you'll notice that she put that dragon into the death state
in order to claim the fleece, right?
And she was very upset about it.
She was very upset about it because Prometheus is a man.
Yeah, and yeah, beautiful stuff.
The dragon comes back anyway when she burns up this palace and kills everybody.
It's not like that's funny, but her, yeah, it's a long story.
It's a long story, probably not worth it.
Oh, by the way, for those of you who know that Medea,
or say that Medea killed her children, right?
The Corinthians made that up.
There was an oracle that went out right after the kids of Medea were killed,
her sons were killed, and she was able to escape from the city.
They got sick with a plague.
And the oracle said, it's because you killed Medea's kids and claimed that she did, right?
It's terrible, terrible.
Those Corinthians should be, you know, good.
Good plague on the Corinthians, Hail Satan.
Plague on the Corinthians, right, Siri?
Plague on those people, yeah.
Anyway, let's go, let's keep going through the text.
We have to, we can't leave off the, you take the dragon's blood and a stone
that you take out of the middle of his brain.
Yeah.
Okay.
And you take all of these ingredients and then you're, you're set to be able to make that sabat.
There's a place.
Okay.
Think of it as a dimensional place that you can project yourself.
This is how they talk about it, right?
This is, this is their world.
You project yourself.
This is fairy queen stuff, right?
And that's why, that's why Rob is chasing the fairy queen.
He's chasing Mab.
He's chasing Medwa, right?
Because she's there too in his, in his past as well.
This is Lady Babylon.
It's she who bridges all of the languages.
Yeah.
Isn't that nice?
Chasing this chat at the minute.
Chasing this chat at the minute.
I'm trying to keep up.
Yeah, yeah.
So I'll get, I'll get with you.
I'll get to you.
Okay.
Just buzz in, buzz in Rob and just say, Hey, I want to read a comment when you'd like to read a comment.
That's, that's fantastic.
I will.
I will.
Okay.
Fantastic.
Good.
And if, if anybody has any great, you know, great questions, they're welcome.
We're going to, we're about, oh, we're getting into it a little bit of length here.
So I will, I'll make an ending in just a minute.
I'll wrap up and, and then when we're, then we'll give you a chance to ask some questions.
So we're with, we're with the redheaded boy and we took his blood and we mixed it with the blood of the dragon and with the gym that comes from his head.
And now we're, we have the ingredients from the cauldron.
And these we can transfuse to burn off the mortality.
Remember in the initiation of the lusus.
Remember Demeter is working the boy demophon.
Yeah.
And her mother walks in and she's like, Oh my God, what are you doing?
And the, the text says that she was putting him into the fire.
Right.
And she says, she says, look you ungrateful jerk.
Right.
I was going to burn off his mortality.
Well now, you know, forget about it.
Let him die.
Right.
Isn't that cool?
And so yeah, yeah.
Is he your, is he your redhead?
He's in the position of your redhead.
You know, Rob mentioned today, and I want to talk about a question about pedophilia, pedophilia.
I want to open it up to the most uncomfortable academic discussion possible because we have a, we have the freedom if we are respectful and clinical to be able to ask some questions.
And from antiquity, you know, they've got a word, pae de rastea.
Right.
Pedorasty.
Right.
It's a, it's a big thing.
If look guys, if we want to find that kid that was with Jesus in the garden.
Right.
Right.
Then we have to know.
We have to know what is the pedorasty anyway.
We'll talk about that.
I'm wrapping up and we're back at the, at the dark harbor and with the potion of the means.
And we're trying to figure out what Nero is conjuring through this great arch, you know, this arch physician and what they're trying to do.
And it is consistently described as the same process.
So it's the, it's the.
What do you mean?
We're wrapping up.
What do you mean?
Well, I mean, you know, with the, with the text.
Yeah.
With the text.
Right.
We can't let anybody go without getting this way of came.
People need to figure out how to access it and get to it because I got it.
I got to it through you.
You, you tried to, and I had to say it and I'm not the best researcher and certainly wasn't at the time saying for it, but I found it difficult.
I needed a title.
I needed something to go with.
So I'll try and sort that out and put it in the chat.
In the comments on the, on the video and I'll try to get a link or if anybody can help and get a link.
I'd appreciate it.
Yeah.
If you need shorting out and we need to get more into the purple.
We go into the purple and we, because it's such a vast subject.
We go off, we get taken off into different areas.
So we've got to come back to it and try and stick on point with the purple.
The purple?
Why it's there?
Why would white, white everywhere when you look around?
Why it's, it's the purple reel.
And we've got to discuss the purple reel because it's, it's a very interesting subject there.
We haven't, we haven't covered it yet.
It isn't covered yet.
We need to.
You perhaps need to do an episode entirely on that.
It's not short time.
Just to give the people a taste.
Just to give the people a taste.
Remember this is something I say all the time.
I say it all the time.
I say it to my students.
And who are learning Greek.
You have to realize those, you know, the purple trade and antiquity was huge, right?
The name of the Phoenicians comes from it.
So, and it's a extremely, extremely valuable commodity.
I've looked at the drug trades and antiquity and it's on a, on par, you know, with the drug trade.
So, uh, yeah, if the plants that you can get and where you can get them from, you know, um, yeah, the murex, can you get the mirror?
Right.
It's expensive.
It's more expensive.
You know, what Rob, you reminded me more costly than gold, baby.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
We've got a question.
Are you taking questions?
Let's take some, let's take some questions.
Let's go ahead and take some questions.
I'm trying to look out for them.
Yeah.
Go ahead.
Keep them coming.
Keep them coming.
Get the questions.
And if I've missed any, if I've missed anybody, I apologize.
I'm a novice and I'm trying my best.
That's all I can say.
So, dark harbor.
Let's finish with the dark.
With the dark harbor or the cyanic harbor.
I hate to, I hate to, but we need to make sure and get this image.
So this harbor is the culpose, right?
The vagina as you saw.
And so you, you have a person who is producing a communion substance that Gemma, that Gemma that was with the, the virgin sinuses of Magistra.
Sinuses of Medea, that Gemma, that Jewel is also called the cup.
So when Lady Babylon presents her cup of porneia to us, that doesn't surprise any of us at all.
It didn't surprise the Nicolatians, right?
That Gemma, that Jewel that is there and she ejaculates, right?
She has to enter that.
It picture Medea harvesting Prometheus.
And when she harvest him, when she harvest him, he enters a state of relaxation from intense rage.
Yeah, chain to his rock in the Caucasus.
Yeah, gorgeous stuff that you can smell the Scythian and Amazonian.
Amazonian influences in the ancient ritual, especially if you see the drugs.
And that's always, just always follow the drugs because it can't, it doesn't lead us astray.
Right?
Their substances you use and they do certain things.
So yeah, any good questions?
Yeah, Eamon, Cranion Maximus is asking, have we finished with the original text?
Let if there is promise, promise, let it come, mean it.
I'm going to stop.
Yeah.
Thank you.
Yeah, yeah, so Medea comes out just to finish that off to make sure that we've got the picture.
She is inserting that oil, right?
That drug within her vagina and on her gym that is the source of the communion.
Yeah.
And then she runs off crazily, right?
To battle essentially.
So that, now you know why they call them the sorceresses, they call them the drug wielders.
Right?
This is, it's a huge deal.
And the ability to create these formulas.
I mean, imagine just for a minute, step back for a minute.
Say, okay, these priestesses who are involved in all of this worship of this midwife.
And this poison show, Artemis, the poison show.
Who are in these women's realm of magic and creation and destruction.
Nana, what the sorceress is.
That's what Lady Babylon is.
She just does it in every language.
Right?
She's able to bridge that gap in every language.
So, yeah, gorgeousness and gorgiosity all wrapped up.
Another good question is dark harbors may be his body.
Is this the theriac?
Yes.
Is this the beast?
I hear it.
I hear it.
Do you hear them, Rob?
Is this the beast?
Right?
Yes.
This is the theriac.
Yes.
Right?
Thank you.
You're dead right.
We have to find that dark harbor.
We don't have the sautera.
We don't have the savior until we have that.
So, yeah, imagine, think of the proposition of bathing your fetus in venom.
Yeah, in order to bring somebody that could use a little bit more of their brain.
I've got an interesting question.
Do you get killed if you refuse the call?
You're not there voluntarily, right?
You've come to be initiated.
And it's not like, I haven't read a text.
I'm not going to make anything up because there's no reason to.
I'm not getting paid for this, right?
There's no, I've never read an account of an initiate who wigged out, got, you know,
I was like, wait a minute, it's too much.
No, I haven't.
And that's probably because they're always drugging them.
You always, yeah, you, you put it in the place.
I'd like to ask Dr. Buzzard.
I'm sorry if I forget to mention names, but Dr. Buzzard said,
Titerian people are two brominated indole rings.
To me, in pre-curses, bonded together.
Yeah, that's what I was, yeah, that's what I was discussing.
That's what I remember, Rob.
The physicist was so interested in.
Love it, love it.
Now, what does that mean?
Okay, having said that, Rob, what does it mean to you?
What does that tell you within that purple dye of the, of the mollusk?
It's the watching brackets, trip to me in pre-curses.
That's what we were discussing today, isn't it?
I'm leaning here with this because I've got to bromine.
I've got to pass bromine and I'm leaning less today at real time.
Trip to me in pre-curses is what we've discussed earlier.
And then I've got to get that three in the ad yet.
There's a purple that's going to be a big discussion.
There isn't anybody discussing it out there.
There's only going to be yourself.
Now, this is the rest of us, Rob.
You've got to remember, baby, this is the Renaissance.
We're here at the psychedelic Renaissance.
It hit the medicine.
We're going to be there figuring these things out.
There are doctors and therapists right now trying to do that.
So, yeah.
Why do you think, Rob, that they're looking for the mystery of the purple?
I think the following, the text.
I think the following, the text, but it's a century after century,
this is getting passed through.
I think it's, I think they're seeking the purple in this day on this personally.
I think it's gone on for a very long time personally.
Could be wrong.
Could be wrong.
And I'm more than willing to investigate and find out.
Could be wrong about it.
There's no hubris here where I think I'm correct.
You know, you research, you find stuff out.
You ask it and you test.
You give it the acid test.
You see the old job and you've got to do that with everything.
Yeah, I'm willing to bet it makes, it would explain a lot
when it comes to the Templars and that whole allegation
licking the anus or the penis for the purple.
Yeah, I'm willing to bet it had, you know, it surfaces, right?
It surfaces the use of it does.
It changes.
I'm watching the Queen's funeral.
The crown is sitting on a Tyrion purple pillow.
It's not a Tyrion purple pillow.
The funeral casket is covered with a Tyrion purple.
A huge cloth covering it.
And then it's got the royal standard.
I'm not sure I pronounce that correctly.
But right on the corner you've got the Irish side of it.
And you've got the heart with what I interpret as a symbol
with a breast out right on the corner.
I'm mourning the Queen's passed away.
I'm also licking the image and thinking, whoa, it's purple everywhere.
You've got a symbol on the corner.
It's all that in the symbols, isn't it?
It makes you think, like I say, I don't know if I'm correct.
If it's that, I'm licking it.
Can you lick that because you run up to that casket,
lick the purple and get high or no?
That wouldn't be the purple dye.
It's not the same.
But if it was, I don't know.
I'd like to know.
I'd like to know.
Because they pulled out to jump it from a cave
what had been there for many years.
I don't know how many years it had been there.
But as soon as it hit the sunlight, the colour was radiant.
The guy and this Tyrion purple dye only gets better.
It doesn't grade in time.
It only gets better apparently.
What a red.
That's why it's more expensive than gold.
It's hard to extract.
Really difficult to extract.
So when you have it, why do you need the blood of the redhead?
Or the dragon?
Why do you need these?
I think it can only be because you're potentiating.
You've got your DMT-like effects.
Are you somehow modifying through the system,
filtering it through the person?
I have to be of a certain Aryan makeup.
When I say that, everybody goes,
wait, what did he just say?
I'm talking about the Aryans.
The real ones, not the mythic ones.
But the Aryans who were coming up with all this pharmacology,
these antidotes.
I think there's a reason they took the name Medea
and started to call themselves Medes.
There's a certain power behind this whole process.
We're in the Renaissance.
We're going to discover this.
We're going to find this cup.
Then we're going to want to use it.
We're going to want to bring her back.
The evangelicals know this.
They know it's a part of the plan.
That's why we are who we are.
Hale Satan.
Hale Satan.
Sorry.
I'm trying to catch up with the chat.
I'm trying to listen.
I'm going to listen back to this.
I know what's been said.
Because I've been trying to concentrate.
I'm reading at this.
Somebody asked me about the painting
of the background.
That painting was done at the state
clot of the university.
While I was contracted to bring
the historical reality to the
a leida MRF Socied M repeatedly, cazgliad gwiaith a'r gwneud i'r drw pekeroedd universulau.
Al lit ich erbyn ein brydawn hynny neu fynd yn dwyn i'r proses nad yw'na yn ho doen meddw i fynd.
Rhywod blaid yn berydd ar riskogesig rydymangingol Аg 근데b h vec yn ym mwyled.
Fle would be moim ond.
Mae hyfyrlus yn fynd fear hwn.
Mae hi i ddweud yn d enseyn a gwybod..
Mae hwn dylai.
Rwyf, diem fried, gyda ph Maurice deiernerau?
I Black Out Leaves.
Rwyf Pork Nrw sydd yn fy nhw o'n tokensau.
Rwyf when weionedd cwkhwr nid credu.
While she was across the campus, I gave a talk on the image that you see painted in the painting,
which happened at her, it was a free painting day, and she said she just felt like this image was
coming to her. And so, you know, it's part of the magic. It's who is the image. She's bleeding
and she's standing in a pool of blood. And it almost looks like she's in the water
and you are upside down. Who's this woman if you were John and you were, you know,
you knew that you could get bitten by an asp or by a viper and it wouldn't it wouldn't hurt you.
Right? And you knew how the water works. You know why Lady Babylon sits on the waters,
right? Everybody knows that, right? It's part of the physics that are involved in the magic.
Yeah, it's, yeah, so necromancy and alchemy. These are all coming back. There's a renaissance
as my new student physicist would be able to tell you. Look, people, we're in an area where this
thing is, this thing is a mystery, right? And it's gorgeous. There's something in the cup
that's provided and that's what we're almost there to find out is what's in that cup.
I am it? Yeah. Who and what is Satan?
Yeah. I want to know. Yeah. Who and what is Satan? And who asked that? Joe Jones.
Joe Jones. Here's what I'm going to ask. Sorry, Joe Jones. Sorry, Joe Jones. I must remember him,
shall we? Yeah. Who and what is Satan? Yeah. Here's what I'd like you to do. I'd like you to
take that question to Byron. Okay. When you, it's a necromancy lesson. When you engage in necromancy,
you are involving a process that you can inhibit yourself and the way to uninhibit it
is to randomize it. And so when you come to Byron, you ask him a question and through the muse,
he can answer you back. So here's what I want you to do. Go to Lord Byron. This is right if
if you wanted a necromancy assignment. Here it is. Go to Lord Byron, Joe Jones,
and ask the devil himself. Ask the devil himself. And if you do that, I want you to come back next
sabah. And I want you to tell us what the devil said to you. Joe Jones, that is your
mission should you choose to accept it. Your satanic engagement. Yes. Hail Satan. Fantastic.
We are the yellow shark. How does that have to do with Byron? Good question because
also yellow shark, can we get a link? Can I get a link to your discord? I
tried searching for it and failed. Useless. Fail. So I appreciate a link. We have been through why
it has anything to do with Byron. But I'm going to try and get a link up. I'm going to try and get a link
and put it in the comments when this is over because I'm going to have to go and find the link
and put it up there. I haven't got it yet. I haven't got it. I wish I could. I've got the documents
and I've read it myself, but I'm going to have to... I need help. Help. And Jack, please. See if
you can get the link for it. We need titles to search the links. So what I'll do is get titles
up because I've got them. Apologies. Yeah. And we appreciate the art. We appreciate the art.
You'll notice these reels. Agent Ferrari and they're fantastic. Love them. That's Agent Ferrari's
work. Good. Shout out. Shout out to him and shout out to Chewie for keeping us flying. I appreciate
that. I really do. That's my daughter, by the way. It was an apple scout
what I wanted to get off. You don't have to see it for it. I'll come back to you.
Yeah. Um, yeah. What's that? Yeah, fantastic. Discord. You should create it. Now, what is that?
Yeah. And what does that have to do with Byron? Yeah. No, I'm giving you instructions.
Go, right? Go. Um, you know, Rob told me this week he said he shaved his head, right? And because
anybody that appears has to appear in mourning, right? Because we recognize the death of Jehovah.
Okay. And if you, you cannot be born again without that state, you must be in the state
of recognizing the death and mourning, actively mourning the death of Jehovah.
So, um, he shaved his head and he, and he went, um, that's scary. He shaved his head. Rob shaved
his head and he told people around why he was because he was entering satanic initiation.
So, um, that courage, that courage, we should take, we should take note of that. Those of us
on this side of the pond should take note and honor, and honor that. And Rob, don't you just
want to say it? I simply don't care to be honest. I simply don't care. It's my hair. It's my hair.
I'll do what I want with this. Uncommerable freedom. That's what that represents for me.
Yeah. If I want to. I'll do what I want. That's satanic. I'm sorry.
Yeah. Yeah. Amen. Amen. Right. I am the amen. Um, for, for those of you who are interested on the
necromantic side as well, it was a specialty of mine. The necromantic thing really turns me on.
So for those of you who are interested, there is a seal. There is a seal on Jung's, um,
Libair Novos, right? And what, what I mean, there's a seal. I mean, Jung said there's a seal on
it, right? On the work. It was split up in the three notebooks at the time. They combined it
in the one, right? But he says there's a seal on the work. Um, and if you can break that seal,
um, you, um, you can talk directly to Amon.
So if you want, if, if Byron is not your thing, go to the red book with Jung and dig around, sniff
around for the magician. And once you find that, then, uh, and I can hear him as I'm standing here
talking to you, I can hear Jung complaining, right? He's ball gag, so he can't, can't do much. You
can only mumble. But, um, I've got his black, um, rod, um, the serpent rod. I've got it for you.
And I want to give it to you. I want to make it, um, common. I want to profane it so that you can
use it as a key. So if you're interested in the necromancy side, Jung, uh, the section on the
magician. Yeah. The section on the magician and look for Amon. Look for Amon. And when you find Amon,
then present your question, right? What is Historia? Historia is originally a question.
It means inquiry, right? In Greek, but it's a question. Originally it's a question that you
propose to an oracle. And the oracle
is able to unite herself with the divinity, right? Who is then able to work through you
and tell you, because it's past, present, and future, and tell you how it's going to work.
Yeah. It's, it's gorgeous stuff. You don't pay her, right? And people say, oh, they got
treasuries and they got this and they got that. And they also know that there's a lethality involved,
that there's a lethality involved. Um, and we know that the price of taking cash in the
in the Saturnian religion, if you want to call it that, in the Saturnian practice,
the price of taking any sort of compensation is immediate ejection.
Yeah. So you can't worship God and Amon, right? Amon. I am the great Amen.
And you thought it was Hebrid, didn't you? It's not.
Very slips. Yeah.
Yeah. That's why it's very slips, necessary.
Look at the, look at the, look at the, go ahead and put up harmonia. This is what we're trying
to achieve, right? This is harmonia. And harmonia was transformed into a snake.
Yeah. And why was she that way? Because a snake was her mate.
Yeah. Cadmus. The one who preserved the burning purple and restored the lightning
so you're like, what? Right? Um, dark, dark harbor, right? We're taught, I'm teaching you as
we're working together. I'm teaching you the Orphic Vox. I taught you the harbor and somebody
asked, well, are we done? Um, is the, is the, is it the vagina? Yes, it is, but it's more than
just a vagina. It's the cyanic harbor where if you have ears to hear, you'll know what is there.
Rob's people are doing this. They're entering that island, right? They're entering that island
where that haze is lifted up, right? Which is funny because the Greeks talk about the passages
the same way. There is a haze, a fog. Yeah. It's just, uh, it's coming out of, look, here's
where it's coming from. Put that, show us Georgia. Go through some pictures of Georgia here. I just
want people to see. Yeah. This is the beauty. This is where this, this, um, this great garden,
this great paradise is achieved, this Edin. This is where it is. That thing, yeah. Great.
So, wasn't Alexander the Great's mom Olympias known for sleeping with snakes? Um, specifically,
she was known for sleeping with Amon. I'll have you know. Sleeping with Amon in the form of a serpent.
Yeah. And how did, how did we do this? It wasn't, you know, it, you know, back to the Egyptians,
right? This was an Egyptian thing because he had learned he was a pharaoh. He didn't get to be pharaoh
without, without having some knowledge, some priestly knowledge. And so anyway, it's, he's
casting. It's a magas,
which our text right now, our port, our, our beasts that we're working on, our
theriac that we're working on, it's in there. Yeah. And, um,
yeah. How do you, how do you present, how do you present the cup? That's, uh, I think that's
yeah. Okay. Does anybody want the cup? I'm trying to go back. I don't want to, um, Masonic
Traveler question. Carl Jung, what is magic? Speaks of how magic requires sacrifice. I don't
see it as necromancy. Yeah. So we, we, we want to discuss the necromancy. Yeah. Yeah. Which
I see is research. I see that as research where I, I bring up that person.
The problem is, I'll answer that directly. The problem is that Carl Jung in his, in his
red book, so-called, um, is using necromancy terminology, right? He is using a scheme,
a schema. He's using it, um, of the outline of the universe that was pioneered by necromancers.
I'll have you know. I'll have you know. We're in a truria and we're dealing with an art that
Jung is able to chart out beautifully, beautifully. So is Jung a necromancer?
Why don't you ask his patient? What's your name? She went off to that Russian school that they
shut down because of the pedophilia. Isn't that? It was Russian aristocrats. Um, this week in Bible
study, we talked about Oula and Uliba and we talked about the aristocrats that they taught
using the purple. And, and somebody asked about Mary. And yeah, there's a
Coptic section. I don't do Coptic. I respect those, those of you do. And I leave you to the science.
But there's a text that in translation says that, um, her midwife, Mary's midwife probed her,
she palpated her, you know, insertion of two fingers and, and had to pour her hand out
because it was, uh, felt like it was on fire. Right? It's the, they call it the burning purple
for a reason. What's she doing? She was connected with a temple. Yeah, she was connected with a
temple. And what do you think they're doing? It's exactly what we found in Bible study. Oh,
Jerusalem, right? That's not this temple. But, um, oh, Jerusalem, Samaria, look what you're doing.
So, um, this is a real world. I want, I want, I want people to see the real. If you can start
to taste the real, that's, that's what's important. We've got hyperish as well. There's,
Rook thinks the red boot came out of a drug, drug experience by young.
So, young was dabbling with the dark arts and drugs before he wrote the red book. According to Rook,
I've, I've, I've heard Rook say this, uh, and, and, and then he's followed this line and that, that's
Rook's opinion. Yeah. I mean, I actually heard him say that, is that red book came out of
a shark. And he says it took a few years off. It went kind of reclusive for a period of time.
And during that time, he was, he'd think, and there's no evidence for his disease, dabbling. And
it's not light reading, right? It's not, it's not light reading. And, but I do, I do appreciate
if you, if you, um, if you can appreciate the power of images, which young obviously does.
And, um, like they did in antiquity, because remember the idolatry is just the,
the power of those images, you know, even one that even, even one that doesn't
here, I'm going to, I just want to show you one and give, give you the appreciation.
Um, yeah, here. Oh, look at what, what on earth is going on in this. Wow. Viewers,
do you see that? Do you see that? Now I know, now I know how those unions, they were the first,
they were the original miners, you know, of the mines. They're the ones who creeped in, crept in
there and got done what they needed to get done. Um, ask his patient. Ask his patient. He'll know what
it, he'll know what a dragon is. Don't worry. Um, Petrarch, people, if you're more interested necromantically,
um, if you're more necromantically inclined, uh, go to Petrarch. He wrote a work called a secretum.
I'm giving it all out tonight. He speaks about the code that he uses in it. Okay. You'll notice
I think section three, five, three, five. No, or is it three 50? Uh, I can't remember. Um, anyway,
it's Petrarch and it's called the secret. And in the preface of that, you will see the physics
laid out of how this necromancy works. Petrarch uses necromancy with Augustine. And in order to get
there, he goes through the muse home. He calls. Yeah. Who, who does he call? You read this, didn't you?
Didn't you Rob initiate? You read this, didn't you? Oh, okay. Well, the find, find out. Yeah.
Warytas, right? She's the truth. She is that truth. Right. She is Sophia. For those of you
who don't realize it, we're trying to find Sophia and people were asking, well, what about it's almost
like he's teasing us with both genders. Yeah, I am because you get down there. You get down there
and you find that Aphrodite has a penis. Yeah, I'm, I'm, I'm not kidding you. If we have to go back
to the earliest sculptures, we'll find that she's got that penis. And she, she uses it. And why? How is
that part of? I wrote, I wrote a book called Hermaphrodite's Gynomorphs in Jesus. Right. So
yeah, this is good stuff. You people, you people, don't buy it. Pirate it.
Because pirate it. Nobody gets it, but it doesn't pirate it. Yeah, good stuff. Good stuff.
You know, like, Jan, the word that was questioning.
My board, the board is a bloody thing, but no. Yeah. Petrarch the secret. Petrarch the secret.
Byron, if you want to speak to Satan directly, and I know Joe will, right, report back to us and let us
know what Satan told him or does the answer to his question. And Petrarch is working with,
is, is working with Veritas. He's working with the truth. Right. But not just the truth on paper.
He's working with her. So this is a sacred feminine power. We need to, the last thing we do
before we take the redheaded boy's blood that we've been putting over the spit and bleeding.
The last thing we do is that we gather the wolf's testicles. Right. So the dragons and the wolves,
we have a Greek text that tells us these are positions of temples. Right.
Positions at temples. These are guardians. They're guardians. So you can take one of these
wolves. And if you get his testicles, and why would a wolf be giving you his testicles?
Because of what makes Rob so uncomfortable. And that is the pedorasty. Right. It comes back
to the pedorasty. Biochemically, it comes back to the pedorasty. And hence,
if we're going to ever elucidate why that kid was with Jesus in a public park at 4am,
and he was naked, we're going to, you know, and it's got what can be used in antiquities,
a medicated wrap, you know. What are they doing? So we have to dig into that pedorasty.
When they told me, you couldn't, you couldn't say that Romans use drugs. I was like, okay,
it's my mission in life to find the, to find the deepest darkest corners of antiquity and to
dredge it up. And I didn't have to go far. I just had to go to the Garden of Gethsemane.
Yeah, I love it. What, what's, what's with the redhead? What's with the redhead?
What's with the redhead? Rob, Rob's got a theory about what the, what the head thing are. What the
head thing? Rob, where did these redheaded Scots come from? Oh, you, you, you led Saint Andrew.
Saint Andrew brought him over. There's a, there's a legend. There's a legend to that, to that degree
that he, he brought Scythians back with him. There's the Scottish. They've got Scythian heritage
within them. Bought back by Saint Andrew, who's, he was the patron saint. And as a genetic quality
that runs through him. So that's like, I was, we were, we were laughing with me yesterday because
I said to you, yeah, that's kind of a stereotypical Scottish guy who you're talking about with
the redhead, pale skin and pimples. So now I'm like seeing, yeah, you can see a Scottish guy,
and that's stereotyping, which is something I shouldn't do. But it is a stereotype.
There is that stereotype. It makes me wonder, is there some genetic, is there some genetic
thing going on? Is there something involved here that we have to have that arian?
That black sea, late bronze age gene in order, I mean, in the, in the Crimea, right?
Where all the, where all the interest is now, they're, they still have women who are performing
death rights, right? They're performing sacrifices and using dotes and antidotes, poisons to do it.
And, yeah, what's, what, is that the source? Is that the origin? People are,
I think you can... You say, ginger's have no souls. Ginger's have souls. Of course that ginger's have
souls. You say, ginger's have no souls. Yellow shark is asking who bought them over, and it's
Saint Andrew. That's the legend. It's Saint Andrew. So it's something about their genetics,
right? It's some way that they process on the chemical. And it's obviously, they're taking it.
Look, they're taking a kid. They're saying you can't sexually satisfy him. He has to remain in this
agitated state before, while you're collecting his blood. And so you take a kid, obviously going
through puberty with his pimples. And by the way, they're, you know, there are female performers,
right? In sheer outfits, right? Oiling themselves and dancing. So is this doing something
for the redhead? You know, is it somehow when you put him into that death state and then
presumably bringing back because you're performing these death and resurrection rights?
Is there something about his state of mind? They're a peculiar combination. This is what brings
us the orgy, right? A peculiar combination of fear or panic and sexual intensity puts you into
a place where you can chemically produce a substance that can, that was used in this
initiation. I mean, it's great. And what do you have to do with the wolf? You have to get
his testicles. You get his testicles straight up. And, and so somebody can figure out, put all
this biochemistry together and figure out what's going on. But genetically, there's a link there.
We can't, we can't escape that, that history. You need that. You need those sons of God.
Yeah, to produce that substance. They say that, they say that ambrosia flows in the veins of the gods.
You know, Rob, you were talking about horsemen. You were talking about Mongolian horsemen drinking
their own horses blood in a kind of a vampiric way to stay alive, to stay alive. That symbiosis.
Yeah. We've got yellow shark. Can we talk about the astrological aspects of Lady Babylon?
Is the water's the elliptical flame? Is the beast hydro? It's a question.
Yeah. The astrological aspects of Lady Babylon. Sure. I'll just mention a few things. I'll just
throw a few things out, right? She's that, she's that queen with the stars. And she's presented
on the Greek side is having a black cloak, a black peplos. It's actually a peplos covered with stars,
covered with stars. And so right away, you know exactly, you know exactly what religious
neighborhoods you're in. And people say, what are they doing with the stars? The religion of the sun,
the moon and the stars, right? The Saturnian golden age. You know, we worship, we worship the sun,
the moon and the stars. And what do we do with those? We draw down the stars, right? That's,
that's, that's what our action is. So when you go see Satan, find out who those stars are,
right? And how they can be drawn. There is a universe out there. There is a universe
where you can be struck by that lightning, right? And you can exist within that lightning.
Yeah. Do you, do you want it? Do you have ears to hear? Do you want the,
who wants the manual, man? I'll give you the manual, the PGM. And you can, you can experiment
all you want. You can find, you can open portals, get yourself into big trouble, right? And push
toward the mystery. But what amazes me is that all this mystery is about, is about one oracle.
It's about one queen. Yeah. There's no boy in the garden. It's all about her. And somehow
it gets, gets yanked historically. It gets yanked into this masculine form
where we are using the Herculian boy as a source of our glane. Yeah. And so,
you know, we have some explaining to do. If we can see this history for what it is,
right? At least we'll know that. You know, I thought a week ago when it says in the Bible that
Jesus was touching kids and the people were complaining and they're like, tell them to stop
touching the kids. And he's like, his apostles come to his disciples coming and they say,
he says, oh, what are you doing? You're trying to scandalize me, right? You're trying to get me in
trouble. That word for touch has been translated to you as touch for a reason. It is also the
Greek verb for to molest. Yeah. Was Jesus a child molester? Yes, he was. And his religion was satanic
just like the religion of the Jews. Yeah. Satanic. Yeah. Beautiful. Oh my, it's gorgeous.
Bronze age people, back to the bronze age. Gotta go back to that queen. Gotta go back to that
one queen. Yeah. I see a note here that somebody's Rob says, say something.
Lady back. I am a Satanist and my wife is a Christian. Do you have any advice to help remove
the scales from her eyes, so to speak? This is Daniel. Yeah. Daniel, the best tool, the best tool
to remove the scales is the reality. Take her to the garden. Take her on a date to the garden,
right? Be there with her and show her the boy. Show her the three men who are standing at a distance
keeping watch, keeping guard in a public park at 4am. Show her the authorities that show up,
right? For the raid and capture Jesus. Show the fighting and somebody getting an ear chopped off.
Show the boy running away, right? Take her to Ananias and Sapphira and say the Lord struck them down
right? Show her these things, right? Jehovah, Jehovah's
weakness is the reality, right? Because, because what we have created from it doesn't
match it. It's just a reflection of the reality, right? And it's important if you're going to
um work with somebody who is within a cult, right? Christianity is a cult. It always has
been a cult. It always will be a cult. It operates on the terms that every cult operates under. And
it's salvation that is offered. It's ionic life. It's not eternal life. It's ionic life that's offered
is why you can make mountains move, right? They're, they are very much dialed in to the magic
already without them even, even knowing it, right? They're very dialed. The Christians know.
They know it's the apocalypse, right? And despite the fact that they worship a liar,
right? And place him on the throne of tyranny. Despite that, despite that,
reason, reason will get to them. Let me just repeat something that was told to me by a union.
A union told me, practicing union, told me and recognized for his talent, told me that there's
something about some the treatment of Nazis and presenting the maternal figure to them, right?
You present the great mother. Find the great mother that is rejected by Jehovah and you've got your
crack, right? That power, that feminine power, that mother who is the virgin mother, right? That
imagine, you know, in every temple, in every temple, you bring three forces together. Okay,
I'm just telling the old old Roman magic. In any temple, you bring three forces together, right?
And so, if you bring the virgin, the queen, and the lover, if you bring Aphrodite and you bring
Hera, Erra, and you bring Athena, then that combined power is able to disrupt the masculine,
the feminine, the secret is the feminine magic power is superior to the masculine. That's why Zeus
is always looking over, the Greeks recognizes, Zeus is always looking over his shoulder because
the civil has said he's going to be overthrown, right? Jehovah will die, right? That's all there is
to it. And it's the feminine that brings him down, right? Why do you think they're so afraid?
When a man is transformed into a woman using chemicals or surgery, why do you think it so
disrupts the Christian and the Orthodox communities, whether they be Jewish or Christian Orthodox,
right? Why do you think it disrupts them so much? Because it's a manifestation of the power that
they know can kill their God. We are the generation of Orion. We are the God killers.
How do we get there? Can I interrupt, sorry? Masonic travel, he wants more Greek, he wants
to initiate, he wants to read, he wants to see the Greek, he's seen your Gnostic informants and he wants
the Greek. He's asked who is the boy also, and also there's Lord Snappy at 3.38am, which is a good
question of like, if you can get that up for me, can we talk about Saturnalia since it's almost
the town of the festival? What was happening with binding and unbinding of the idol and the
inversion of social hierarchies? It's a good question. And I can't let it go because my bar doesn't
work, so I'm catching up on the trade. Yeah, Lord Snappy came last time and it's good to see again.
Yeah, the Saturnalia is that golden age. It's the freeing. It's the
unconquerable or the fearless freedom, the fearless freedom. You reach that it's an age,
it's described as an age, right? But we're talking outside of time. We're not talking about
temporal ages, right? It's a power. Think of it as a power, the imposition of another dimension.
And what does that dimension represent? It represents freedom so that slaves become masters,
right? Become the, I shouldn't say, the inversion is to allow them to partake
of the opposite pole. So they don't do it just with slaves and masters. They do it with parents
and children as well, right? So the children, for Saturnalia, I let my kids call the shots, right?
And it's their choice. And we follow their will and they guide. They take over and they guide.
So we, masters of students, the students take over, right? And when those students take over, when
that younger generation takes over with its freedom, you're, you're in a Saturnian place,
or a Satanic place that row and that road disappears into the new. I'm telling you,
it's a Mycenaean thing, okay? So Satan is not who you think his name is not even who you
thought it was, right? It is Saturn. So, and hey, if there's, if there's only one way to follow
that, we can do it through the drugs. Yeah, so good. Saturnalia, fantastic. There's a ton.
Macrobius. Read Macrobius is Saturnalia. Whoever asked that question, go resurrect Macrobius
and, and ask him, ask him specifically, invoke the muse and ask him to show you,
do it respectfully. You can't come in without an unshaven, right? If you want to follow,
you have to sell everything you have, give it to the poor and you have to commit, right?
Um, because that's the way the mystery works. Yeah. Um, Lord Snappie. Yeah.
Good. Fantastic. I said, I don't want to drag people. We got way too long and people are here.
Let me just wrap up by saying, I appreciate everybody's input and involvement and I'll try
to smooth this out a little better to where you know that you're going to get, I'll hit you with
the reel or something. Um, Agent Ferrari, I need a reel that I can play that switches us over from
the, um, consulting of the texts to a time when I can engage, when we can engage and Rob can do
his job that he's not paid for and what she does so well. Um, and let's do that. I'd just like,
I'd just like to say thank you. Thank you to everybody. Come on to them brilliant.
I'll do my best for you. I've done my best to get through them and thank you very much.
It's kept me really amused. Some of the comments because I had the
sense of you and some of the comments have been fantastic.
You have probably seen a lot. But thank you. I'm, I'm, I'm privileged. I'm privileged. I look at
it every once in a while. I think, oh my goodness, how nice it is to have such great comments.
So, you know, people, thank you.
Yeah. Yeah.
You know the stuff, you know the stuff, but they won't, they won't more.
It's just like, just like myself. I want more and that's what's, that's what drives,
that's what drives me every day. I just want more and I want more about this and it just
keeps getting deeper and deeper and wider. Yeah. And I, you can't sell this stuff, Rob.
It doesn't work if you try to sell it. You can't. There's a, there's a pollution that's
involved in that process. You can't sell. I agree. I agree. I think there is. When you go
to a lucis ride, when you become a Balkans, you can't sell that. That's, that's, you cannot
put a price on freedom. You cannot do that. No, no. Oh, do you feel that? I felt a little burp
of Thomas Jefferson suddenly. That was, that was pleasant. Hey, a little bonus and then we're done.
In the end real, you will notice there is a name and I keep telling you about Orphic.
This name is the name of the dragon and it is written in Orphic and I'd love for you to
feast your eyes on the language of the mystery. It means dragon and the only reason we know that
is because the magical papyrus told us it means dragon. Have a good week. We'll see Wednesday
for those of you who want to come to the 30 minute Bible study and otherwise hail Satan and for
those of you who take your assignment seriously and talk to Lucifer, I need to know, I need to know
we need to collect that knowledge and I appreciate that. So have a rest of a good sabbat and we'll see you next time.
you
