I'm back. I'm back
Welcome to lady Babylon initiating apocalypse. It's so nice to be back with you tonight. I missed you
I felt the burden of your absence. I did I did but I did my business
We got ourselves through that 93
We got that opening we got that channel now. We're set now. We're set now. We just watch
the apocalypse
Open like flower. This is gorgeous. This is absolutely
Gorgeousness and gorgeosity all wrapped up together and silky
Okay, let's do this thing. What are we looking at tonight tonight? I just want to bring right to you
God
Tonight we're going to take God's
Turn in the chair remember he doesn't run this place
The devil does
Fantastic sit on your throne
sit on your throne and
Acknowledge those stars because tonight we get
to
Talk directly
Face to face. I know he didn't like it. He didn't have a choice
He didn't have a choice. This is testimony from God himself. Yep, you heard me
You heard me and what is he gonna do?
He's gonna tell you
Exactly what I've been telling you
He's gonna tell you the same thing
He's gonna tell you the same thing the very same thing and he's gonna do it
Through a dead prophet. Isn't that cool? Isn't that cool? Watch this now
There's something that we're all very mixed up about and tonight for the first time in
Human history
It's coming out and you're gonna see it you guys
You guys get to see it first
Before everybody else does but you know me you know me I gotta have me the
Tail end of some Harvard. I've got to bring him out
You where's my whip? I got to bring him out
Let's bring the voices of Harvard and Yale. Can we do that? Can we do that chewy?
By the way, everybody thank you to chewy and to all the work that chewy's done
Because that's the only way that we fly
Definitely chewy. Thank you. It's gonna this is gonna be good. We got to give them what exactly what they need
Okay, here it comes. Are you ready? I want to I want to bring to you the confusion
the confusion of a symbol and it's
Unveiling but before we do I got a guest
One from Harvard one from Yale and we have a conversation. What are these people up to chewy?
Show us show us what the people know show us what the people are up to my first
My first slide there, please
Fantastic, it's okay. We've been out of business for a while. You don't have to worry about that. Here we go people
Are you ready?
Center for the study of world religions. This is video came out. This is Harvard
Look at Harvard Divinity School. I thought I smelled something right look at the video. It's the archaeology of ecstasy
Psychedelics in the ancient Mediterranean world. Well, what a great and noble and worthy pursuit
Harvard fantastic
Bring up the next one who who's bringing us all this stuff the same people that in a little bit time here people
Look at this when's this thing gonna happen? This is an event. You know, we can all go to this and we all should of
Course, it's online
Fantastic, right crop of psychedelic intersections cross-cultural manifestations of the sacred
Conference
2024 February 17th
everybody
Everybody we should go we should crash this party. It'll be fantastic. Give me the next give me the next one, Joey
I want you guys look who is this? I got a little sliver here. Who is this? This is Dr. Stang
I don't know
Is he a doctor? Well, he's got a THD from Harvard Divinity School
Thanks, Dr. Stang. He's look professor of early Christian thought this man should know
everything
Everything I'm impressed already just looking at that thing. I'm impressed, but you know what we're gonna do, you know
You know, we're gonna do okay. Give me the next one. Look at this. Um, this is a conversation between
Mid Charlie and somebody else. Let me just read it to hand a graph from the University of Amsterdam in a series last year
Speaking about so-called Mithras liturgy. Look, Dr. Stang, don't put a
Don't put a
Apostrophe after the a and Mithras don't do that
Which was a text so named by the Germans collar blah blah blah good good good. I like it so far
Right and so a fascinating text that again has been pushed to the margins and miscategorized
Good for you guys keep going. So that's one. But the Q&A function is
Actually exploding with people who are telling me that there's ample textual evidence that apparently none of us are reading
None of us are reading take it down for one second chewy
Yeah
Yeah, right
That is when the voice
Goes out
Right, that is when you've got to the guards or asleep at the gates, right? You've got to wake them up
Let's see it back to that same one. What is what do you say at the bottom here?
So we have Galen cited arm and Hillman
Saying we need to read Galen. Yes. Yes, you do others are saying of course many of the stories in the honesty
It's long been thought some of the episodes. Yeah. Oh my god. Okay hootie-dootie do professor now
Bring in his interlocutor. Bring her in. Who is she? Who is she tell us? I think she's a Yale
I think she is Karen Paulinger foster. Sorry, Dr. Foster. If you don't work at Yale, let's give you a position there
Divinity I give it to you. I grant it. Sorry and
That is to say that a good half dozen chapters in the book or by people authors who are presenting textual evidence exactly
From the Acadian Samaritan Egyptian and Hittite sources
Are you kidding me? Are you kidding me?
Do you know what the epic of Gilgamesh is
It's whatever Greek knows a third grader can write
Right because languages are not equal and the little lie kiddies that we all know that they're telling you is that this
Language is equal to that and we're in a universe where everything is created equal
That's not how language works
Who could we bring? Who could we bring? We could bring Jehovah
Let's ask Jehovah. Shall we ask Jehovah? I'm I'm I'm in a place. I'm in a place to ask Jehovah
Karen
Didn't want to consult
almond
Karen didn't want to
They think that they're going to have
a meeting about a
use of substances
That they know nothing about from the text that we have
thousands of
Seriously for some Hittite scribbly dibbly do
What did they have a list? Did they have a list of drugs? Oh my goodness
Yes, Harvard Yale
Wake up
Wake up. You don't even know this language your divinity degrees degrees or trash
The trash
The trash I told somebody just that today and I like the guy
I like the guy, but I got to be honest with you
I work with divinity students
And I've got to bring them out of the depths
Back to life
Yeah, it's amazing. I love it. I love it. Okay. Let's go to the look. Look. Where's this all going?
Look, it's gonna get exciting. I promise. I promise. This is some of it. You gotta watch the interview with God
That's really all let's go hit it. Let's go to the next one. I just want you to feel
Tonight as we get into the place that we need to go. I just want you to start to feel
I want you to start to feel
The hand of God, I want you to feel and how do I want you to feel it?
What is that kataya doing on there?
It's the hand of God that is coming upon me
In a way
That forces me into pure courage. This stuff is liquid courage
Oh, this is strength, baby. These are the strong pills. You thought I was going to bring you the weak stuff tonight?
Nope. I've got Ezekiel tied up. I've got a gag in his mouth. I've got the third century guy who wrote
The septuagent I've got him tied up too
Right, we're going to correct his grammar a little bit, but first I want to ask God
I want to ask God. How do you how's the Hebrew?
How's the Hebrew God tell me
If languages are all created equal, why are you always badmouthing yours?
Oh, let's go next. Let's go. Oh god. What's after that?
Watch this people watch this people. What is this?
This is Ezekiel's
Garbly garbly garble here. Let's read it
Euglos on su
Esele
Prostanoi con tu israel
Oh
What does it say? Let me translate it. I'm not sending you
This is God speaking, right? What is that God say something God? God say something
Yeah, yeah, say something God
Speak these are his words. Take it down. These are his
words
His words
It's your pheos people out there
All you fundamentalists all you orthodox
You people
He's speaking have some respect
What does he say to you put it up there?
He says look Ezekiel. I'm not sending you to anybody with a sophisticated language
Right. I'm not sending you to anybody whose language is evolved
It has depth
It has density
I'm not sending you those people. I'm sending you to israel
No
Wait, wait, what what now look god
I have been working with this congregation. You can take it down. I have been working with this congregation for a long time
We we talked about
You know
The the size the size of the Hebrew
Language
This
8000
Maybe
The size of the greek
You know big big
We we don't know the total because it's so big
Oh, wow hundreds of thousands
Hundreds
Hundreds of thousands. I'm gonna show you tonight. God. Tell me your people. Tell me about their language and its sophistication
Please would you tell me give me the next one chewy?
Hmm. Hmm. Here's a translation just for those for those of you who just want to listen to the king james
Just for those of you for thou art not sent to a people of a strange speech
Of a hard language, but to the house of israel
Right, that's a terrible translation terrible. Absolutely terrible translation
Confuses the issue and doesn't explain to you that he's saying Hebrew
Is incapable of carrying the mystery
Wow
Interesting, let's see one. Let's go to the next one. Please go to the next one. Boom
Look people. Here's the long passage. I'm just gonna read it to you quickly. I'm gonna read it to you quickly, right? He says get up
We are on throw. Who are we talking about the son of man?
Son of man, who?
This is in the mystery people. Listen up
The son of man get off your backside and go to the house of israel
and say these words to them
Why because
I'm not sending you to people who use big words
Right. I'm sending you to israel
I'm sending you to the people of israel. Look at verse six
I'm not sending you to a people who are alophonus. Look at those two words people alophonus and alo
aloglossus
Do you see that alo? Do you see the alo?
You see the alo and you see then two different roots guys who were taking the great phone
Right for your sound and gloss for your tongue or speech or language
Huh
That's interesting. That's interesting. I'm not sending to these people of other languages or other
dialectical
tendencies
No
No, I'm not going to send you to a culture that is ontas tibarus
That has tibarus in their tongue in their language next one. What is that?
What is that tibarus? We'll come back to this. What is that tibarus? Go
What is that tibarus? So look it's bulk
It's bulk your language hebrew ancient because modern hebrews flourishing it's about 60 000
Congratulations
Right now it'll survive
Fantastic, but the ancient hebrew that for some reason
Has a minuscule
Hittite hittite. Oh, yeah literature you call that stuff literature
Those are lists brah groceries. That's not literature and that's not a language that has hundreds of thousands
of captured images
Oh, god
Oh, love it. Keep going keep going
Um, yep next one next one
Now I want you to look at the hebrew and I just want you to notice that those two words that we just looked at in greek
The alofonos rides in the a lo glossos
that
What is that in the hebrew?
That is represented by four different words
Four different words to generate two
in greek
And those two greek words are technical terms
Whereas the hebrew are not
Because when you've got a thousand you don't have room for technical. Yeah, it's the way it is
Okay, science people. We love it. We love it. You love it
I'm gonna jump on the audience here in just a minute because I want interact more. I want to amen
I want to hell satan. I want I wanted that kind of thing, but I want you to see this now
Now go to the next slide and we're I'm gonna show you a video here in just a second
Um, this is the people who he's not sending to the people of substantial
speech
Right. Okay. So don't worry. Don't worry zeke. You're not gonna have to talk your way through anything
Right. Don't worry. Just chill out for a minute. Go to the next one, right?
These people
um, yeah
Try that one. Um, I just want you to see that the word for tongue is very specifically and
used in a
by grammarians
Right in a specific way and you can talk about different dialects
So these are types of speech that ultimately are different groups of languages
And apparently greek by the third century when this text of ezekiel is written
It makes perfect sense that it's written by a jewish
person who is using the greek with
some difficulty
In order to express something about his own
history
Where god
openly criticized the poor people for having a
Speech that was
So, you know, you can go there because they're not going to take your
um, your speech
And have a problem with it, right? And then he says well, I could have convinced the other smarties if I want to right
That's how god is. That's how guys you got to give it to him. Okay. Just lay off him
For a minute here while he's under the chair of
focus
Yeah, and um, so what I want to do is I want to go now
I want to go now to a place
A place where we can look at
A
A new symbol that's been hiding in our society
for several millennia
Several millennia we haven't been able to pull it out of the ether
But tonight we're going to and it's with all
Do humility that I say it's my honor and privilege to bring this to you. It's my honor now
Before we get there. We have to go through some humans
We have to go through some humans and we have to we have to look into the mind
Um, there's a very confused group of people. These are bible scholars
Bible scholars, they're very confused. These are preachers. These are priests. These are rabbis
These are people who are very very confused
very
very confused
About what came out of the prophet's mouth
Wheels
Wheels within wheels. Can we have the wheels, please?
Chewie when you get a saint people, let's just take it take a look at this little this little
You know a short little
Kind of documentary of the confusion hit it
Chewie's did not turn about as the creatures went
Their rims were high and awesome
And all four rims were full of eyes
All around
When the living creatures moved the wheels beside the moved and when the living creatures rose from the ground
The wheels also rose
Whatever the spirit would go they would go
And the wheels would rise along with them because the spirit of the living creatures
Was in the wheels
I think this means that god sees and cares about what takes place upon the earth
Though events seem out of control
We know that not only is god in control
But also we should be comforted by the fact that he sees and knows what takes place on the earth
I don't even know what that means in movies very famous movies. This is a movie from 1997
This is the movie contact
And in the movie aliens had sent through radio transmission
A lot of schematics to make this machine you're seeing this wheel within the wheel that's spinning
Here is something I photoshopped to give you a better, you know
Crude idea of what maybe Ezekiel was seeing was additional
Angels next to uh, they they were called ophanemes with glory around about them, right with the sparkle green around about them
And that they're a part of this
System that moves the mobile throne of the father
If you
Believed any of that was substantiated by these texts
um
You're as full of it as an
doctor of divinity
Yeah
You're as full of it. Yeah, isn't that fantastic?
Such confused. Did you see the monstrous stuff?
That they were doing it. I mean, I've seen worse. I went to basil, right? Um, right before Hoffman
died passed away
It was a big deal at the time too and I presented at the conference
there on
you know, I was doing my thing with the drugs in history, you know, and
There were artists there and they would have loved these depictions. They would have loved it
Oh, you haven't seen the eyes all over. No, it's because you're mistranslating it. You're mistranslating it
Look right through. You're mistranslating it
Oh, because this wasn't in Hebrew. You see in Hebrew. It's got to be wheels because it can't be anything else
I remember 8,000 words if you restrict yourself to 8,000 words unique words
Watch how quickly you run out of things to say
Yeah, it's fantastic. Um, so when when the
Old testament or the Torah was actually written
in the third century
By this Jewish person or people who had an education in Greek and had been raised in Greek
They began to be able to express
that cultural
literate spirit
And when they did they had to borrow heavily now the passage I want to remind you
The passage that I just showed you
That had the two words that were based on the same roots that the Hebrew broke down into four
I want you to understand
Scientifically
that what
The rabbis and orthodox and fundamentalists want you
Whether they have a cross or not
want you
to believe
That those Greek words
Pops into the mind
72 dudes
Who segregated themselves into different cells?
and when they
received
power of god
They were able to transmit one translation now strangely enough in that passage
The Greeks were able to take four Hebrew words and say hmm
Look, let's just make two words. We can use the same roots
It'll be gorgeous
That's what they want you to think
It popped into the heads of these people. It's a fairy tale
The original must be the document that is more highly technical
If it's highly technical, it's got linguistic radiation
That the Hebrew cannot express
That's the Greek. Oh god, I love it. Okay. So what is this monstrous thing? Everybody just looked and you're like what eyes?
scary, right
The right they're doing the best they can come on man. They don't read the originals, right?
So what do they know? I'm here just to reassure you
And to announce publicly tonight people at Harvard and Yale
Yes, if I could stay on youtube and do certain things I would do them
Listen to me listen to me. Are you ready? Here it is
Wheels wheels what are wheels?
Let's look at it
Kai in toy poor a always thought so. Oh, by the way
In this translation of this thing is absolutely hysterical
It's hysterical to read because you can't make it's nonsensical
What the Hebrew did in the Masoretic text to this
passage is hilarious
Right, it's hilarious. You can't you cannot make this stuff up
So, um, what is it actually saying? It's saying the trochoi
these
Trochoi
What is a trochos? Please can we go to what is trochos? It's the big definition. Look, this is the word just go here
Just go here. This is the word that I want you focusing on. Are you ready? Just one great word
This is what they're calling the wheels, right? And
Of course, it has to be through the Hebrew
It's got to be a friggin wagon cartwheel right now. No watch the sophisticated language
The whole more technical language. Watch how it dealt with it. Where's our definition then?
Is it no? Yep. Here take down the
Yeah, there we go. No the one before it the one before it. That's the one we need first
Look at this people. Look at this for a trochos
What are some of the definitions of trochos?
right
They are those turning things
Yeah, yeah, they are they are what else are they they're cakes
They're cakes. They're little round cakes that we use in sacrifice
All right, little round cakes and when I say sacrifice, you probably don't understand what I mean, but I don't care
Let's you can eat them. You can burn them. Oh god
God, I can smell it in the air. Can you smell it? I had to fumigate the place before so jovo could show up
Let's do this. Let's do this. Get me to the next that one now. What else are there?
um
They're drugs. They're medicines, but I want you to see that the diminutive is used all the time
It's a standard for these medicines, right? Because they're small
Little wheels
They are small round pebbles
And what do these medicines do? How do you make them? I'm going to show you he describes
What the makeup of these medicines are and in the process of describing it
Due to translation you think it's too giant
What with eyes and what who?
Right. Okay. No people, right. This is reality
The fantasy world is over
Satan told me no more. It's too much fantasy. We need more reality. We need more reality
Please bring us some reality. Are you ready? I'm going to show for those of you who can't appreciate
The magnitude of what I'm telling you
Christians have labored
Jews
Have labored not the ones they knew in Israel. They didn't give them
They didn't give a rat's backside about the bible
Right. They were more interested in democracy. So, okay, that's cool
Right, but the religious side that they always talked about derogatorily and it was terrible
But they always talked about because they were dragging their country. Oh, well, it doesn't matter
That's a different discussion. That's a different discussion. Israel
Israel, let's get back to Ezekiel. Shall we shall we get back to Ezekiel? Let's go
Bring it up the next one. Yeah, we're somewhere in that there. Yeah, not too many people's no no strange speeds
Let's keep going. Let's keep going. Look at this people. Why are we doing all this because inside of these pills?
Right the trojizkos
is a pill
That you make
one of these pills do
They contain the plenomat zoace
The plenoma
zoace
If you don't know what this is, it's because you've never been there. You've never had the hand of god
If you had had the hand of god now, do you see what all the christians
Do you realize they've been fighting for centuries to figure out what these things are?
What are these wheels?
What are these wheels? Do you know why you couldn't figure it out? Let me just say this to christianity tonight
I want to say it
to all the divinity students out there to to
everybody everybody who was preaching and teaching and all the
sophisticated from the lowest pastor
to the most highfalutin
trained
Retirition who's got his 20,000 followers putting in cash in a bowl
Putting in cash in a bowl. By the way, you notice there's still no commercials
Right. It's part of the reason i'm staying low on the algorithm is because I don't
I don't hook
I'm not gonna hook
Yeah, yeah, so for anybody who's been asking me
to be involved
in the exchange of dough
Forget about it, right the power's gone people everybody here knows that and satanic initiation
I saw the letters you wrote to me. I saw the email
Yeah, the stuff was fantastic. I saw the notes the stuff people left comments
From last season. I saw it. I loved it
I loved it and it really means something to me
It really means something because people are saying look you're opening up things that I've never I'm free
I've never been it. Yes
Yeah, hell. Yeah, that's where we go. That's where we go
If we can do it from the throne
Right
Oh, where's my tea?
Right people who are asking by the way, it's just tea
Fantastic, let's keep going hit the next one chewy. Look people are gonna love this
So we didn't know for centuries. We didn't know and so now
Let's look and see what the drugs they're talking about are
Right, let's see what they are. Let's go to the spirit. What happens?
Ezekiel you junkie after he gags you. Did you see God right before you guys got here?
God was
Sitting here and took Ezekiel's head
Right took Ezekiel's head and he shoved this book in his mouth
And what is that's what it's sound like? Uh
Sound like a gag a little bit
Right
And what happened bring back that greek this is because that's what happened in the greek
whoo
whoo what happened the spirit
the spirit
Came and ripped him off the ground
Yeah
Jerked him up
Jerked him up the spirit did took him in a place
In a place. Oh god. Are you ready? What else Ezekiel you dirty drug user?
What else are you doing? You thought this was fairytale, didn't you? No, you didn't satanic congregation. I'm talking to the guys at harvard
yeah
guys and
You know, whatever and the spirit yet next one, please chew he hit the next one and what happened
You know, it's that hand of god thing. He says it several times. Well, guess what?
People think it's tinkerbell's
Dust right it's not tinkerbell's dust
Right, it's not it doesn't say it's tinkerbell's dust anymore because Ezekiel
Also out of his dirty mouth
Comes the hand of man
The hand of man
You know what what makes?
The trochoi, you know, what makes the drugs the hand of man
Yeah, you see the drug is the interface
between humanity
tea
and divinity
Humanity and divinity and we see that in this third century text
Greek text
Oh god, isn't that gorgeous? You didn't think it was there
Right right off the front. This is the front of Ezekiel by the way
It's in the third chapter when god starts insulting him being like
Yo, god, you're your language blows
Right, that's a direct quote by god
Your language
blows
Yeah, it's very simple
Right, they're not designing these drugs there, you know, you got to give them a break. It's just a cultural thing
You know the romans they're in huts man
Romulus and remus you want to think about romulus and remus? I know we've got a lot of fans out there
I'm a child of venus just like
Julius Caesar
but
Romulus and remus were living in huts, bro
They were living in huts
Yeah, they had until the you know, they had to get somebody they had to import somebody by the way their mother
She was the priestess
The lupa
Isn't that fantastic? She was the oracle
Do you see who was making things work? Do you see who was ruling?
Do you see where the power really was in antiquity?
Oh god, I love that that makes me so excited. I love that. Okay, stop this. We need
Do these people a service
Well, yeah, come on. I'm gonna get it together. Do you think go? Where else are we going? Why are we doing all this?
Ezekiel because a don
Horace
What is the
What is that? That's the visions, baby
That is where we get the visions. You need we need those wheels for vision
Uh, yeah
Yeah, I told you this that I am describing to you now
Is the interface
between us
And divinity
It's the interface
Wow
You know, he said they're gonna like it
right
Harvard
Harvard's knocking at the door, but you guys can't do the text. What's your problem? What's your problem harvard?
Oh my god, I'm gonna say it and I know
he
He won't get mad at me
So I'll say it because he won't get mad at me and I really really like the guy
I really do. I have so much respect. I have no more respect for any scholar on the planet than I do carl ruck
Right, everybody knows that I call him lucum. Oh
Right, it's the word the Etruscan word for priest poet
Yeah, isn't that great? Isn't that great? Um, any who? Um, carl ruck. I was very I'll never forget
I was in boston and he had invited me for
There was a paper in the department at boston university that I gave and very it was a smashing success people loved it
um, and then, you know
He took me to harvard said yonder. Look oven there yonder
harvard
And I said I looked at harvard and I looked back at carl ruck and I
I said, why do you look so sad?
And carl ruck looked at me. I'll never forget. He looked at me right in the eyes and he's so tall
He was looking down on me, right? He's like
It's like a giant
right seriously
big
And he says he looks me right in the eye and he says
It's not what it used to be
And he had such sadness and sorrow in him
I thought
Yeah
Yeah, congratulations harvard
congratulations
Amazing and you know, you think why would the devil be so mad? Why would the devil be so mad at an institution?
right, why would because
Those institutions were
The reflection of the ancient museum
That was civilization
You see what's happened to it. They're sitting around debating. Oh, we don't need to look at those sources
There's a ton of it, but we don't need to look at it because we've got some scribbling
It's much more important
All right libraries people libraries
Libraries let's go look up satirizes together. Shall we?
Let's go next one. Chewie hit it. We've got to get these people on their way
Gnostic informant is waiting patiently wait Gnostic wait for me. He's got a presentation and everything. So
Um, I'm not going to rush, but I have a few couple more to do not too many
So what happens the Pnellma took me says Ezekiel. It took me. Is this after they gave you by the way
You know Ezekiel said about the drug god gave him. He said it was numbing numbing my tummy
like honey
Has anybody
Chased just to make sure has anybody checked
How old this kid is?
Has anybody checked it
Okay, some of this stuff is gonna look bad
But again, it's the bible. So let's just get back to it get back to the bible. Isn't that nice?
So the spirit took me
Right and what what what happened when it boom when the spirit kicked in
After I've had my wheels what happens
I hear I'm hearing things
I'm hearing things anybody else hearing things
Ezekiel is hearing things. What's the voice?
It's the voice
Of a great earthquake
It's a rumbling
It's a voice of an earthquake. Are you ready? He's gonna this guy's gonna tweak. Are you ready? He's gonna you watch this next one, please
chewy
Are you doing stuff with a
Chat fantastic. Um, look people
What's going on? What's the stuff they handed you at the front door?
Right, you know what I'm talking about. It's so loud now. We can't really hear each other
But they gave us something and it's doing something to us
It was honey in my tummy
But it's doing something. I'm kind of feeling a little bit awkward and kind of you know warm in some ways that I maybe shouldn't
And look what happens
I learned that there's a voice
Look at that
Look at that. What's gonna happen? There's a voice
In these pills
There's a voice in them and it's that voice of that quaking
It's the voice of that quaking. It's the sound of quaking
Boom it shakes me to my core. Are you guys getting ready
To get bockock. Let's go to the next let's go to the next one. Here we go. It's a little bit psychedelic
Boom
Othronos out to flocks poros
You know what thronos is
You guys are on the inside
And you know that thronos is vo
Or walks orfica
You know, it's vo
for drug
polythronon
Right a compound
mini-thron
So what is the throne?
Who is the who is sitting on that thing? You know, it's the chief
It's the chief not here
Here it's lucifer
Right and the third
Right you get it third time
We're in it. The oracle has switched
So who sits on it now? Well, look at that throne. What is it? What is it? It's the flocks poros
I want everybody to take out their wheels
I want everybody to take out their wheels. It's a medicine. You can put it into wine
You can dissolve it
You can put it into your
body
If you just want to shove the pill you can shove the pill like ezekiel
Right, there's different ways to administer these drugs
Right these trochoi and what they're doing to people. How do you think they're getting the vision?
You know where prophecy comes from? I'm going to tell you this
Harvard Yale will not tell you this and if you look at their panel of speakers, you're going to laugh
Harvard and Yale won't find it
If they looked hard enough
They would find
That these are the substances that are driving
the prophecy
They're connecting the language itself
When you enter into that
mental place through the drug
You enter into the vision. It's the only way that we're all going to get it
Do you think these people sat around and creatively made this stuff up?
Seriously
Yeah
Or you can follow the fairy tale and watch your
Watch your charlton heston part the waters
Yeah, you can
But you've been misreading the text and I love to do it every christian out there. I can feel you
I can feel you right now. I can feel you
I've got my arms around you every christian out there. I can feel you
This is the reality
This is the reality
They're receiving visions from drugs
Yeah
profits speak
from drugs
and drug use
So I got news for harvard. It's not just that they've got this in the ancillary in the air flying through the air in antiquity
It's not that it's not that it's that it's central. You don't have the mysteries without this
You don't have it
What do you think they're doing in those tents?
Fantastic go to the next one go to the next one. I want to finish up here. Look and what happens this thing
Functions on the basis of your hormone if you read this in king james, you're gonna laugh your
bottom off
Right you're gonna laugh
Um, but what happens, you know these drugs function they use it like go around
They they can't they they can't translate at a competent level. So they drag it down
Um, it's garbage. It's absolute garbage
And because it had to be filtered through that masoretic he grew it lost everything
So, you know, we have though we have it sitting right here. What does it say? Right this drug functions within
the movement or the impulse
Right of that spirit
Yeah, yeah
It combines
It combines with
That panelma
Do you feel it on that inhalation? Do you feel it?
That is the panelma
That is kicking you
into
the vision
Yeah, now it was rough. It was none of this stuff is ever easy, right? And I was like, uh, it was like falling down
I'm hitting the ground right rolling right get up, right
Right, Jesus is all like. Oh my goodness. His face is all covered with claudy gross stuff
Right, what's the stuff on this? Look you can take it and you can like do like that with gross man. It's just gross
It's on your faith bra
If I were the cop that arrested him with that naked kid
I would be like dude. I'm not wiping his face, right? You're gonna you're gonna clean out my car
Shout out to those roman cops
All right, so what oh that felt good for some reason. I don't know why it gives me pleasure
Let's go to the next one. What happens?
Hmm. Look people look people. Oh my god the form of these drugs
What what did they have they were they were liquid courage, baby
They were pill courage
These are courage pills and what do they have they have this reflection
In each of their four basic parts, right? There's a compound drug made of four different drugs
Now take this down. I'm going to describe to the people exactly what's going on. It's the first time this has ever been exposed
I want you to think about it. This is how they make the drugs
You make them as stones. They call them lethal
pebbles
right pebbles
Because you're going to be putting this into your rectum
right, so
You don't want a boulder, right? So they're gonna. Hey, I know chewy. No, right
um
Right sometimes they tie you up. So does it matter? I don't know. Um, but you take the this is how they're preparing the medicines
So you make the compound and then you harden the compound into a ball
And then you take that ball, which is perfectly round and has no back and that's why it's very funny
When it talks about the eyes
Okay, they're they're totally misrepresenting the text all the christians every english translation of it
sucks
sucks because they went from the masoretic hebra text
From the 11th century
We're out 10th century 11th century somewhere there, right? It was developed over time
so
Yeah, we're obscured
We can't see what's actually going on
So you take this little pill and then you recode it you make more drugs and you put another coating on it
You make more drugs let it dry put another coating on it finally
You've got your four and why do you need four?
because
dummy
The universe is divided
by quarters
Don't you know that?
Haven't you been paying attention?
Hmm. Okay. Good
Fantastic. All right. So now we've got our
Trojisco's or our trojoi in the plural. We've got our trojoi here just like galen
They're gonna have seals on them. They're gonna have some kind of stamp. That's what they did with these
Um, you go when you purchase them
Um, it's gotta have a stamp so that you know this is provided by this doctor or that doctor
You got to know who's responsible for it when galen goes to north africa
To purchase it's like 12,000. I forget how many tablets he buys
but he buys these
And they of course they have to have the seal the limnion seal on them, right to show that they're up to
Standard it's like stamping it so that you can know. Well, that's in this too, but the problem is
We don't understand it
because we're working with a
bastardized text if you just look at the greek
And you've read any medical text in antiquity
All of a sudden it makes sense
I I didn't get the other read of it when I actually looked at the text. I thought oh well
Where they're using the drugs see they're using the drugs. I jumped up and down
It was happy
Right, and then I had to look up which passage it was
To find out. Oh, this is the wheels. Oh god
Oh god, keep going with the text people keep going. Let me just show you a couple more things in here
Right, this thing is divided into four sections, right? It's really four coats
Right and its parts will work together in conjunction. They don't
Stop or inhibit the action of the drug
That's what it says
Now you read this in english
everybody go to king james tonight and
Look up ezekiel chapter one and read it
And you will get then why people are so confused one more time
And then we'll take on to see that video again. Um, yeah, and they're hoop sauce, right?
These pills they're hoop sauce and they translate. This is where they translate as high
Right, these are from the these are from the height. No, it's not who sees us, right?
It's just hoop sauce and what is the hoop sauce?
These things are the acme of the punch the pharmaceutical punch
Right, this is not the stuff you go get because your elbows get sore at night because you're getting older and it's cold
Right and your elbows get sore. So you go get some pills for that, right?
Um, this isn't that your kid has an earache crying maybe teething, right? Go get him some opium
Right, go go get him. This is not that either
This is one that is it the acme of your mental transformation
Right, this stuff will knock you off your feet
That's why the prophets use it you think the drugs you use your sophisticated modern world
You haven't seen anything
Let's go for it. It's no wonder we have no profits
Right, why do we have no profits anymore?
Because it's not about the individual drugs, right? It's about the craft of how to use the fire
Fantastic. Let's look at um the very bottom, uh, the very bottom line
Those eyes, right? So as he's examining the pills
He's noticing that all four sections have this modeled appearance of eyes
right, so
What essentially
Is Ezekiel doing?
He's just giving you a description of the drugs
This was not something that anybody who was contemporary in reading would have scratched their head and said
Oh my god, you mean he's building giant rings
um that there's a legion of fiery angels and there's
Some kind of ring thing and there's eyes coming out of it and uh
Don't be gullible play the video one more time. I want I want people to see it. This is what they make of it go
The wheels did not turn about as the creatures went
Their rims were high and awesome
And all four rims were full of eyes
All around when the living creatures moved the wheels beside them moved and when the living creatures rose from the ground
The wheels also rose
Whatever the spirit would go they would go
And the wheels would rise along with them because the spirit of the living creatures
Was in the wheels
I think this means that god sees and cares about what takes place upon the earth
Though events seem out of control. We know that not only is god in control
But also we should be comforted by the fact that he sees and knows what takes place on the earth
I don't even know what that means in movies very famous movies. This is a movie from 1997
This is the movie contact
And in the movie aliens had sent through radio transmission
A little schematics to make this machine. You're seeing this wheel within the wheel that's spinning
Here is something I photoshopped to give you a better, you know
Crude idea of what maybe Ezekiel was seeing was additional
Angels next to uh, they that are called ophanines with glory around about them, right with the spark
around about them and that they're a part of this
System that moves the mobile throne of the father
hallelujah
hallelujah, isn't that amazing so
Um, what we need to do is we need to actually look at what's written there
And you know, maybe bring that forward instead of acting like a bunch of jerks
Yeah, do you see what it does when you drift?
From classical education
You drift from reality
You have to remember julien was saying the christians the first thing they're going to do is destroy education
What he was talking about was not what you and I call grammar school
What he was talking about was a classical
Education there is a reasoning
Built in to the greek
There is a reasoning
That is there that they will destroy says julien in order to meet
Their purpose in order to bend it. They will bend that light
And so what we must do is take back
Those texts they must become hours again
So that we can show people
What was going on you didn't realize that ezekiel
Was on a drug trip if you're a christian sitting there tonight
You didn't realize that if you're just a student of religion if you're just a student of divinity
You didn't realize that profits were only profits because of the drugs
You didn't realize that jovo was so mean to his own people said your language blows
Right, don't worry. I'm not going to send you to anybody with a brainy language
Right, there's a reason for that because when this is all written in the third century
That is the historical environment of the author or authors
Yeah
Right fantastic. Okay last um, I think I've got one last thing to say
And then I'm going to bring on I want to bring on uh, um
Gnostic informant, um, yeah, no, I've already I've hit it. I've hit it. Let's do it. Um tonight welcome
At our premiere of initiation apocalypse. Um, welcome neil and I want everybody
Everybody to give a warm welcome. I'm gonna reach out
To the gallery in just a minute, right? I'm gonna engage
I'm gonna do something new and engage the gallery directly because your opinions now
Are important but before we do I'm going to give the stage to neil
He's been reading a ton when I just work in the sources like he always is and and we're going to hold him responsible
For keep regarding those sources neil go ahead. You're on that's what I know is differences between someone like you and me and like most
mainstream academics
Is when they're when these when the mainstream academics are talking about whatever topic
their
Initial reaction to recommend something is some sort of article written in 2025 or 2025 didn't even happen yet
Like 2020s or something some current article on a subject and say, you know a good a good
Reading on this subject is an article from dr. Ba-ba-ba-ba-blah and blah-blah-blah university
He wrote an article a couple years ago about this. Oh, this person wrote a book a couple years ago on this subject
Just you check out their book on this
You don't get that with ammo or me
I say let's go right to the primary sources and dig this shit up. Let's look at what this
Let's look at what the greek says
Try to trans see what the translation is correct
See if we can have a difference see if we come up with a different translation. Maybe it's not the same
We that's how technical you and I get we go that deep
But there's a hallelujah. Hallelujah. I'm just I'm just gonna interrupt and I'm gonna say hallelujah. That's wonderful
Okay, now i'm gonna shut up. It's a big difference and and so
I like to come on here when i'm working on a current video
I like to come on here and just share some of the stuff that i'm looking at
Because i'm trying to piece together when i'm making my videos the hardest part is to get it into a script that's cohesive and
um
You know some sort of like a storyline going on rather than me just throwing a bunch of shit out the wall and see
Because that's how my older videos kind of came out and now now i'm starting to get them better at like putting it together
In a more narrative way. That's really hard to do
And some of the stuff i'm looking at i'm working on currently working on
comparing jesus tobaccos
Because recently dan mclellan was had a video he came out with talking about how somebody one of his wanted somebody like
tagged him on on uh
TikTok or something asking what he thought about the dianese and mysteries and how the eucharist could possibly have
Bowered influences from it and he just shut shuts it down and says no
The that's that's madness. That's just people squinting hard enough and seeing the two
I've eventually start to look the same when you squint hard enough and i just thought
wow that is like
I i can't believe he hasn't even like heard of like ruck on this subject or danis mcdonnell on this subject or
There's a lot of scholarship on this that
I guess this is outside of the spl world though
So i want to i want to make a video
Going through some of the sources
Showing the um and it's not even about jesus copying bacchus. It's about jesus competing with bacchus
Trying to be better than bacchus trying because you bacchus was all there was
Bacchus was the greatest god of the ancient world. I I demonstrated that in my one video a couple months ago
Dianesis was so widespread. There is no god in comparison to dianesis
So jesus wants to be the son of god you have to go through bacchus to get there
So what i want to start off with i'm going to go through some slides that i got
And i just want to go through some now when i'm not going to get into all the details of like
Of the sources of what i'm going to show in my video
But i want to go into the deeper stuff because this is what this is what we get at doing this channel
I'm going to go to some some deep stuff and i want to hear from people what they think about this because
I don't even know about this stuff yet. I want to hear your thoughts. I'm on and everyone else
So let's start with the first slide that I got all right now. This is called the uh parabiago plate
And the reason why i'm starting off with this is because the iconography it's dated to like the fourth century
It was found in milan
just upper italy
And um, so if that by zoom in you guys see the zoom in
Yeah, okay, cool. Um, so, okay, so here's what i want to look at here. Yo, you got adis and kaibili
Or civilly when i like to call her kaibili because that's the greek
But uh, adis and civilly are sitting on the chariot drawn by the the lions
And you have the uh, the core tests
That are dancing around them, right? All right. We know we know what that is up here though
Here's where the luciferian imagery comes in
You literally have solan or apollo solin victus apollo helios
By the fourth century those three are merged into one sun god. So
Helios apollo soul
It's the same name for the sun god
But there it's by the time you get to the fourth century
It's this indencipal sun character, right? So diana is the moon goddess
But diana is also the you know the artemis
But in between them you can see lucifer
Phosphorus which literally is lightbringer lucifer and then vesper
So there's a luciferian symbolism
The the lightbringers diana luciferia is one of the titles in latin for diana and look at look at this
Look at her look at his wheel and her wheel
There's the eight-pointed star right there that eight-pointed star venus
So the imagery is just beautiful and then i want to come down to here
ion
So a lot of people there's people who think this is dianesis
But most people think this is a ion
But here's what i want to say about this. They're both right
Because you can see that the thrysoi staff the pine cone on top. He's holding it. He's got the uh official
official
garb that dianesis technically wears all the time with the same way he wears it
and uh, he's he's inside the
zodiac like ion
being held up by what i think is
Mythras coming out of the rock. I'll show you that in a second
But here's what's so interesting about this is you have the serpent
On the on the rod be a sleeping rod
It's a symbol of it's a symbol of rebirth resurrection
And you can see how in john's gospel they compare jesus on the rod to the snake on the rod, right?
So i'm gonna i'm gonna circle back to this but i want to i just want to keep
I just want to get through this whole entire thing real quick down here. You have gaya or uh terra mater in latin
mother earth
and um
And then you have these four seasons
I don't know what to think about this because the the uh scholars are saying that this is like four irritus
But i don't see any irrituses have wings. There's our wing little cupid
I don't see any wings on these what i see is i see these little
Characters of the son of god. I see you know holding the the grapes the bokeh bokeh symbol the hermit hermit symbol
Of holding the uh the good shepherd symbol all that stuff
But i do i think the four seasons are definitely there too now. Here's where it gets crazy
Because this sim this sort of um iconography it becomes a common place during this time period
If we go to this one right here, this is mithras
Slaying the bull obviously, but if you look up top there we go. We have the same diana and apollo
You know the two's this the light givers with the with the with uh with lucifer eosphorus vesper
um
And uh in between and then there's the torchbearers
Now this is where this is where i want to get deep right where he's slitting
The animal right where he's cutting the animal you can barely see it here
But i'm going to show you i'm going to go to my slides in a second. Um
Out right here. There's an s
This is in latin s there's an e right here a b
And then there's an e and an s i o
And then so what i want to do is i want to show you something on my if you can go to my slides
There you go
So france kuman a long time ago was able to he is the one that actually decoded this
He was like the main mithraic scholar of his time and he still is in my opinion
Although all the mithras digging that i've done
I don't see any modern scholars touching this dude france kuman and his lifetime. I think he lived from like
end of the 19th century all the way to like the middle
Of the 20th century something like that
So he's been dead for a while, but
I'm i'm not kidding when I say this there is nothing out there that even comes close
To the work that this dude did on mithras
And and not not only mithras, but like Dionysus and
The the what he basically his whole his whole research area is the last generation of paganism
Like what were the romans doing right before christianity take over?
Well, what was that religion like we don't know a lot about it
I mean because all the sources are from like the classical world
So we all we know about is like what euripides what homers says what but there's really don't we don't have a lot of text
Of like mythology, but we have ovid and virgil. That's first century stuff. What i'm getting at is
It's a mystery to know what exactly was going on in these later
Uh fourth fourth and fifth century pagans, but I think i'm starting to get a clear picture as I as I go along
So i'll go back to the slides again
If you can see on the bottom it says namas evasio
And then there's deosola and victi mithrae the the invincible sun god mithra
And he's slaying the bull
with the name of sabazios on it
what
sabazios
But what but wait a minute if we go to who's sabazios if we go to i don't know herodotus or
diodorus or sissily or or even
Cicero any of those sources they all will say
sabazius is a
Is an is the asian dianysus
That the name of dianysus in turkey modern-day turkey
which we called it asia back then
or uh
Anatolia, which is anatole means east
But uh anyways east asia
The name of the name of bakis in asia was sabazios
So wait a minute. Is he slaying sabazius? Well, it turns out that sub sabazius
Is the bull is a bull horn god?
He's called the horn son of amon
Amon is a ram god
So it's confusing. Is he a is he a son of a ram?
Which would make him a lamb by the way the lamb of god?
Whoa, that's kind of weird
But it does call him the horn god
And some tax. He's a bull horn and some tax. He's ram horn
so
So there is the animal thing going on there
But I think if we go deeper we go to the next one. So clementive alexander says something really interesting around 200 ad
He says that god in the bosom. He's talking about the gospel of john
Is a counter sign of the mysteries of sabazius to the adepts
This is a dragon passed through the bosom of the initiates
And this is like he just kind of drops this in the middle of his precepticus text
Without giving any context like maybe if you were reading this in 200 ad
He would know what he meant and i'm thinking because that's when these religions were were all current
So a current up-to-date
Theologian of the time period would read this and go. Oh, yeah, he's talking about some bit
But like most people who read this passage are like what the hell is clement even talking about
So i'm thinking to myself
Sabazius is considered to be a two-fold god son and father and one
A trinity if you will he's sabazius, which is sabazus
So he's Zeus, but he's also
Dionysus
rolled into one godhead
with and then if you if you
extrapolate from that with a spirit that connects the two just like a trinity would
But it's interesting because god he's saying god in the bosom
Is a counter sign he's saying that this sabazius
Is a counter or an antichrist or whatever you want however you want to
Whatever linguistics want to use but he's saying it's like an opposite of our god in the bosom
Of jesus being in the bosom of the father. He's saying sabazius is the is the opposite
He's the god of the he's like this
Luciferian godhead basically so
We'll go back to the slides again
Now that's that to me. That's interesting. I'm still parsing that out. I'm still digging through that
But I noticed that there's always it is usually a snake
present
And all of these iconographies of mithra slaying the bull
You see the snake there too, so I wonder if that has something to do with the the dragon passing through the initiates
I mean, there's so much imagery and symbolism going on
that it's it's just so
It's such a rabbit hole to dig into all this stuff, but
But here's what I wanted to show. This is not new either. This isn't a new thing. This is
Hercules
taming the bull and like five. This is this is a coin from like 500 bc
And then you have the vic victory or Nike
Slaying the bull like this was a common
symbol
For over for victory or the son of god conquering the elements because her Hercules is the original son of god
We're talking when we talk about the origins of Hercules
who the hell knows when Hercules was first worship because
It goes as soon as sources pop up. There's Hercules. There is no like first
Oh, Hercules shows up in 500. No as soon as we have text we have Hercules
So Hercules is probably a stone age god for all we know. That's all I'm just putting the stone that out there
Who knows how old Hercules is the Hercules is the original son of god
He's the original archetype of like the son of god the hero the
you know the the
And so the the the people of asia minor
Actually named their dynasty after him the Heracles day Heracles day their sons of Heracles
and so
um
Let's see now. I want to what I want to do now is I want to go
I want to go back to something real quick actually go back to my slides
Okay, here we go. This is crazy. This is so wild. This is from sythia
this is a image of
probably
Zelmoxis
slaying the bull
And this is a sythian. I didn't know what this was at first
But do you know how the pope has that hat that he wears?
This is the same. This is basically the same thing. This is a priest garment
This is this was a hat for this was a helmet that only a high priest was allowed to wear
for the sythian religion
They're docky and sythian religion and so
This they would wear this helmet and they would offer their sacrifices
And that's kind of crazy like that like look at it. It looks like the pope's hat almost but I'm just I don't know
I'm just saying like
The it's just the shape of it that really got me
Um, but there you have the bull slaying bull slaying image right there
Bacchus in the form of an edible grape
And then you have the serpent but next to him you have like uh, uh some sort of dog or cat
Trying to eat him or something
But like the idea of eating my flesh or being the sacrifice for the world
so the idea of
The idea of sebaceous being slaughtered as the bull by mithras
And then the idea of the sacrifice being the sacrifice for salvation
This is from 79. All right, so this image right here is from is from pompeh, and it can't be older than 79 ad
So we're talking like the idea of bacchus being the sacrifice to be eaten
For salvation by the way, the elusinian mysteries color ruck does a lot of work in in this area of the eucharist
And there's no doubt about it that the eucharist was a magical
Was a magical right you're taking the gods in
Demeter being in the grain the bread and bacchus being the wine the blood
There was the idea of these two gods entering you when you became
um, you became
Sanctified through this right. There was a baptism involved. There was a eucharist involved
There was salvation. There was it was about promising eternal life. That was the whole purpose of the mysteries
So uh that so that's that's you have to we're starting with
The idea that idea has to start we have to start off with that off the rip like we're already talking about salvation
We're already talking about sacrifice
We're talking about like flesh eating all these elements that are that are that are there that are just so obviously in your face
Let's see. Let's see what the next one is
Okay, so this is from one of the mithraeums in italy
um, and so what I what I noticed is
The mithraeums were connected to all the old temples of magna mater
So what you have is you had this late roman imperial cult priesthood
and what I'm what i'm noticing is
for example
The elezinian mystery has got shut down in like four or three 75 ad when theodosius was emperor
but we we know from records that the last
Elezinian hero font which is like the pope of the elezinian mystery
He's the high priest of the hell at elezinian mysteries was actually also initiated
As a level seven potter, which is level seven called saturn
Of the mithraic mysteries
What the hell so he's in two religions
Well, apparently this religion that julien was trying to create julien the apostate was this unified
pagan church
Where all the all the mystery cults were starting to come together as one to oppose christianity
And so you had the elezinian hero font was also a level seven initiate the mithraic mysteries
And all the mithraeums throughout the whole roman empire were connected to
um, the temples of magna mater. So you have the great mother and the great father
Saturn
Which saturnalia is the big the big uh, holy time of the year
The so the birthday of the sun december 25th. All of it sort of comes it comes together, right?
Um, if you go back to that image that I had on the slide, this is sylvanas
So this is now with it where the room this was found in
um, this is dated to the reign of of of uh,
pious um
160 i think it was 160
Which is he reigned right he reigned with uh, marcus aurelius
all right before marcus aurelius and um
This is it has his name on it and everything
But this was a baptism room. It was the middle room
in between the mithraic initiate hall and the uh, the sacrifice hall for magna mater
Where they took the bowls and to slay the bowl
So you're seeing that this religion was multifaceted. It wasn't just about mithras. It wasn't just about
Magna mater wasn't just about Saturn. There was like a whole fuck. There's a whole pantheon of gods all sort of um
Coexisting in these places that these priesthoods would sort of are sort of like interconnected in a weird way
And it makes me think of like, you know how the elohim is the singular word that they use to describe
The whole godhead right the elohim is all the gods
But it also can mean one god to me. I think that's what lucifer kind of becomes
Lucifer becomes a singular word to describe one god
But also a face of all these different gods solendictus
diana
Bacchus apollo
You know pan
They're all they all sort of become the they all become like singular under this term lucifer light bringer
Because you have that the imagery of the of the torch bearers and the uh, the light bringer is always present in these iconographies
um
So one more slide i want to go through and then i want to show there you so i'm going to go back to
One second i want to show this real quick
Mithras coming out of a rock holding the zodiac
Now if we can go back to my my original the first one that i was on not the last one
And i'm almost done here. So this is um
That i want to go back to this so this is that's why i think this is mithras right here coming out of a rock
and holding up ion
It's sort of like his resurrected self
It's like two phases of one character and that's why i think this that's why i think the snake is right next to them
It's the same length as both of them because it's sort of like showing
The snake
Uh gives away its it's uh dead skin and becomes new and mithras being born from a rock anew is the resurrected ion
Ion and this is another part of my video that i don't have the notes for here, but i'm gonna be in my video
i'm going to show that ion was called
Ion was followed by that by three disciples
Who were called the chrono?
the chrono were
Basically avatars of ion himself
But they were past present and future
So you have three faces of this you have a trinitarian god called ion
This this is this is the same ion that epiphania says was worshiped in in uh, egypt
After the and born at the winter solstice
And he tells me he's telling christians not to take part in their written
He's saying all these christians keep taking the part and all these mysteries of ion
We shouldn't be doing that like he's basically saying that these christians are
intermixing with the ion worshipers
But so i'm just want now i want to highlight that thing because jesus sort of comes out and he's
he's um
he's
He's competing with this this idea of this one the son of god is
The son of god is like you have all these sons of god characters
And they all sort of go there's a lot of them get resurrected a lot of them have
passions a lot of them are sacrifices a lot of them
Are saviors healers asclepius
Whatever and like you can sort of see how
jesus sort of takes on
All these different traits but tries to be better than all them
well
It gets crazier. So i'm gonna go back to my go back to my slide again real quick
Or not slide go back to my yeah this one
um
so
um
Am i showing the right one okay?
All right, can you see my let me just see all right good. Good. This is the one so
Yeah, so that's what i meant by mithras coming out of iraq holding up ion and then the snake that i hear that uh
Representing the resurrected mithras or the death of ion
But here's what i wanted to mention
because down here you have
tethys
and
Poseidon
And anyone will tell you Poseidon is always depicted with horns that look like
crab
Claws right?
I don't know if you guys can see that or not. Do you see the crab claws for his horns?
Right, so one more thing i want to show you and before i went to my last video
That's uh this right here. This isn't from an from an old church from the fourth century fifth century
It was it was an arian church
But you can't really hang up on the fact that it's arian because the arians were just catholics that had one
tiny tiny minute difference
Is that they believe in the trinity they believe jesus is god they believe in the same books
The same canon they think the gnastics are heretics
They think they even call themselves catholics. They are catholics
But the one difference is that they think that jesus came after the father. They both aren't eternal
Such a minute difference, but that's a big difference a big deal for a lot of catholics. Anyways, the reason why i brought this up
Jesus is being baptized
in this image
And look what we have here the father god the father has the
earth shaker
Poseidon horns
There you notice that see the see see the
See the uh the the crab
little crab uh claws on his head
And so in this so i know some people try to interpret this as
It's the river jordan incarnate
But i'm not buying that
I'm not buying that i think this is Poseidon
Here's why I think that
He's being born into the water
He's being initiated into the water
And he says this is my son. I've begotten you right?
and so
What happens when jesus is uh killing the cross the earth shakes
The earth shaker appears the earth shakers mad
He cried out to his father on on his uh
On the cross and the father responded by shaking the earth. That's if you anyone who knows Poseidon
And you know ancient greek texts earth shaker is Poseidon. That's his title
So I think there's something there's something to be said there. I think whoever built this church was um
Was trying to artistically express jesus
Through the through the lens of what a pagan would appreciate
But you might think this is all crazy and i'm going too far
I just want to show a video real quick. This is my last thing and then i'm done
Play the video please the first christians weren't looking for a god who made them feel guilty
That would never have caught on
They were looking for a god who would save them and fill them with hope
So was their model for the first jesus
Christian artists selected the youngest and handsomest of the pagan gods
They chose apollo the god of the sun
Blonde and unbearded youthful and curly haired
Apollo was a god who made you feel good
So the first jesus's were curly haired and pretty because they borrowed that look from apollo and it went further than that
When this
mysterious christian statue
Was dug up out of the ground it was thought to represent a woman
An unknown goddess a muse
Only later was it realized that this too was an early jesus
So
In that wonderful museum in cleveland the one with the jona marbles
There's a carving of apollo performing a miracle with nike the goddess of victory
Apollo is the robed figure on the left
And look how shapely he is
How easily we might mistake him too for a woman
Pagan gods could be male and female
They could amalgamate the sexes and represent both genders at once just like this jesus here
Extraordinary as it sounds the first jesus's were sometimes made to look feminine on purpose
All right now last thing I want to show real quick because I want to show one more example of
Iconography
I got to show my last screen
there's mithras
carrying the animal
And then jesus as the good shepherd. I mean that's all you can also find hermes statues of him looking like that
Holding up the shepherd holding up the land like that
Hermes is the good shepherd what i'm saying is
Jesus is being portrayed
in so many different ways not just dianesis not just aya i'm not just
Sabaeus, but like these many fascinates sons of god characters that jesus is competing with where he sort of like
Through through adopting their images. They rewrite them. He's rewriting them in in the likeness of christianity
That makes sense
So that's what I got so far
Oh my goodness. Oh my goodness. I was paying attention
And that was some of the hottest material
Congratulations now seriously on a professional level neal
That was you know, I I'd have respect for you if I came to a conference in classics
And I saw that presentation. I'd be like this guy knows his sources
He knows his sources my god. Yes subodzo
That's the one that I think is the craziest
It equals it equals. He's being slain for humankind. It's a salvation
He he equals subodzo the verb in greek
Equals a wadzo. That's what the oxford lexicon tells us when you a wadzo
When you shout bachas or when you shout a wa
You are doing
The sabazian manner. You're doing the sabazian
I didn't think of this till right now. Isn't there some play on the greek
In the in the gospels when he's being I don't know which gospel it is
But there's a there's the argument that he if you break up what he's saying
Saba cthoni, right
Yeah, yeah, no when he's shouting and he says he says lama sabak thon
Right and everybody's like anybody who heard that at the time would know exactly what cult
Jesus was functioning within just by that right sabak thon
No problem, and it's a magical incantation and all the scholars that
Divided the people right now the classes because they don't touch this stuff because they don't want to
I don't want to but they don't need the headache you talk to any classes
I tried to get rock to bring in the naked boy rock bringing it. No come on come on
He's got to keep his job, right? He wants to stay out
Of that so I don't have to i'm fortunate enough that we can go ahead and bring in Jesus's naked boy
But okay, I just want to make one or two comments on everything that you showed first of all
Tight tight brother that that junk was tight as tight gets
Right, you cannot walk away from that evidence
You cannot walk away people and you were going to get just one
You got double in the end. You got a climax there
A day-to-mall you got everything with oh, I'm so impressed beautiful
I'm I'm gobsmacked
at the
You know if you and I were just in a wrestling match
Um, I'm not quite sure who they're gonna call right? It's it may be a split decision
Right. I'm serious. I'm serious neal. I'm serious. That was real professional real good stuff
Real good stuff. Okay. What I want to do now is take it just take a couple of questions from people
Um, I will pick them because I'm in charge
But I want you to be thinking about everything that neal was presenting there
And I saw people thinking about well, just you know, somebody asked I'll just start with this
Well, she was waiting for good questions to come up
I'm gonna say hey
Um, somebody already said jump the gun and said hey
Um, could it be that when they talk about multiple snakes?
for example
Being in one sort of drug that these are different coats so to speak
Exactly. These are the different elements. Yeah, that's
On that on that one showing on that plate that I was going there's all these little like
Serpents and bugs and different creatures on that on that plate
And I'm thinking that's gotta be some sort of drug reference there. Why would they just be throwing random animals on this thing?
Yeah, yeah, and
John Scarborough said, you know the um
The scorpion that's yeah in the mithraic
Reliefs um, sometimes there's a scorpion right under the testicles
And it looks like it could be stinging them, right? And then all of a sudden you think
You know, John Scarborough was like, you know that that has some kind of crossover
With the fact that you and I are reading medical texts that have to do with you know, scorpion
toxin being used in the treatment of
Or to induce
Infertility it's like a chemical castration
Oh, okay. Yeah, it makes sense with the eunuchs and all that kind of stuff
It kind of it fits very well the pharmacology fits. I love it. Okay. I'm gonna look at a couple of questions
Neil, did you have any just put a cap on it while I'm hunting for questions
And yeah and about the eunuch thing the uh the business teams kept that system in place
They seem to have kept that system going
the eunuch system
It makes me wonder if they're interpreting the text
Those who are eunuchs for the kingdom of heaven
And they're taking that as like a green light
saying well
We have in our texts where we're allowed to uh create eunuchs for our kingdom
because um
As far back as early as early as Constantine and going all the way deep into the 10th century
You had a division. I forgot the name of it was
I was showing you a couple days ago. It was a weird name for it
But the the the name in Greek literally means like those who sleep beside the emperor
It's what that's what the etymology is and there it's a unit of eunuchs
That are chosen at what from where I don't know how they choose them
But they're made into eunuchs and they're given over to the emperor and they live in the emperor's quarters
The emperor the highest the most powerful man in the world arguably depending on what time period we're in
And he's got a whole little band of eunuchs that live there with him
It's interesting. Yeah, nice nice. You're exactly right right the one who shares the bed
Um, yeah, can can you explain the biblion that goes in the mouth?
So neil we're talking about a zikule and we're talking about
Using this little book and we talked about this in the greek magical empire because they do the same thing there
And they actually describe the inks that are the psychotropic inks
So
Something is going into his mouth and ending up inducing this quaking. Remember he's talking
the seismos remember he's talking about
um
those horns and initiating those horns that
that thunder that quake
That gai eochos that that um, you know, see gai on that earth trembling
Force is that force within the communion
It enables you in the community because remember we're talking about mithraic stuff, right? And um, this is all
um religious operation
Slash medical operation an event
Right, we're inducing things. Are you gonna remember this?
This is a time where religion and science were one
There was no like today that they're dueling now you have science and religion dueling
But we're talking about a time in the world where the people who were doing science were the religious leaders
They were the priests. They were the astronomers. There was no difference between astrology and astronomy
They had they had the technical skills. They had the monopoly on the technical skills, right?
those witches
Are oracles, right? They're all connected. They're all the root cutters. They're all the ones that are
Preparing the drugs and getting people hyped on the drugs
You ever wonder why why do they go to root cutters for wisdom and ask them how to what to do about things?
What do you think they they're they're doing the the root root cutters?
That's the that's where you get the I mean the it's where you find the highest content of dmt
Is in roots not leaves or or or like berries or anything
It's in the under the ground and the roots so the root cutters are they're going for the magic stuff
They're looking for the magic
And it's a it's a pure matter of science
I mean if you if you look at what they're doing within the operations themselves
Um, you and you can see this just by the antidotes that they're using and talking about the symptoms that they're trying to alleviate
The craftsmanship you said the priestesses have the have the technology, right exactly
And I think that's why the priestesses are the ones that are involved in sending out colonies
And saying hey, you should kill this tyrant or you should bring these people to power
I think that's why I think that's why they're there because they possess that technological edge
And they're doing that that interface
Um that interface between what you and I would call religion or spirituality
And the physical world
That interface is possible
In the mystery all the mysteries are about is achieving that vision
Whether it's Ezekiel sitting there bombed
On his wheels that that angel having boom put him into that
I was just telling I was just telling someone a couple of days like not that long ago that if it wasn't for
My experiences with DMT
I probably would be stone cold atheists right now
That those experiences are just
life changing
Like they're there it's magic. It's something it's not it's you can't explain that. I wish I can explain that
It's not even worth it
I'll give it no do you feel Neil that your eyes are open. Do you feel that your eyes are open? Do you kind of
Feel that analogy there's some there's some something that
When you're in that state where you
are
Opened up to there's this some there's you just feel like there's something beyond the this
Nate natural world that we're experiencing
It just does now if you know the one that thinks that if you can achieve
I'm sorry if you could achieve that you know as a
Human being as somebody born in nature
You know that there's an achievable end to create what they're doing in the mystery. You know, it's a possibility
It's not an imaginary world. It's not faith. It's not a belief
It's an activity. Yeah
And and it's possible to achieve that. Yeah, love it. What's the question? Do you think subasius?
Is palaskian? What do you think? What do you think?
I was looking at that question my first thing what I would say about that is
Well, according to diodorus and according to herodotus
subasius is the
All this Dionysus
He's the horn Dionysus and he's from the black sea region
And check this out in the black sea region
And we know the plaschians come from that region and then they go and they find the Mediterranean and they populate Crete
And they spread out from there
And are Thessaly and Crete at the same time like kind of at the same time. You don't mean by that
anyways, but before that they're all the way in the black sea like
northern
Black sea
All across the black sea and this is where you had the cultivation of grapes
And is discovered ask anyone any any anthropologists archaeologists will say the cultivation of the grapevine
Was discovered in this region of the world
So we and in the time of the we're talking about a time where any metaphysical concepts would become deified
The idea of oaths and contracts becomes mithras
But the idea of a god that you can drink and and takes over your your mind you can have this
ecstatic experience ecstasy
That's a god becomes a god that had there's no you don't only you need evidence to prove that that was a thing
That that was a deified concept
So, you know, this doesn't take a lot of mental it doesn't take a lot of like
logical
Inference to say that's where dying isis comes from
That's where the so sebaceous is a Pulaski and god probably that's what I would say
Yeah, and I think that's the safest way you can say it because you know, you can hedge it with probably just because look
We're when we're talking Pulaskians. We don't have a written record, right?
So we have to be very careful, but
Based on the greek words
That we're saying oh, these are probably Pulaski and roots and everything they involve and yes, guess what their name means the purple
right
another one surprised
and
Are they the ones that are propagating this
Knowledge, you know, it's so much the knowledge is so technical you look at them with rake stuff and you think oh
Okay, so what do they do they get together and they kill a bull?
No, no, no, you totally you just totally miss the boat and by the way
It's underground and there's a lot of sweating and there's some drinking of some body fluids
And there's a whole thing going on a death and resurrection because they're doing it
It's the cult and they know how to induce these phases
If you can come back this way you're a lot more likely imagine
I'm going to send you into combat before you go. I'm going to boost you into the nether
Where you can see all your ancestors
Right and when you come back with their spirit will go
Right. This is the good stuff, man. I mean it doesn't get better than this
Um, I think neil answered that last question
Perfectly
Real before you before you go to the next one by scoby, uh
I just want to say one of the things that's so fascinating about this last fourth century generation of pagans
as they're venerating the most ancient gods on the planet the great mother
And and and mithra you can find them in bronze age text. You can find great mother
dug up in archaeological excavations from the
copper age
Mithra in the vizet then the vesta or and and then you got like so some of these gods are
Being worshiped in the last generation of pagans. They're they're holding on to concepts that are so old
And christianity is so new compared to this compared to this religion that faded away
It's a baby. It's not it still is even even if you took the time that christianity has been in existence right now
2000 years what about right around 2000 years give or take
You're still short for how long you're still you're not even halfway there to how old magna mater and mithra are
Because they're going we're talking going we're going way back
way back
And and that influence is widespread. It's so widespread that
We get um people referring to media is mithra
Mithra right and her you talk about the plasking connection her you know neil you've seen it
Her etruscan name mataya
Is just lacking a row
Right, that's all it's that's all it's lacking. So that mithra figure we got to remember when we're looking at lucifer
Right, we have to appreciate that feminine form
I loved your guy by the way on the video talking about the early forms of jesus being yeah
That was a good clip combination of masculine and feminine, right?
I knew you'd like that clip. I was like I couldn't say this any better myself
So i'm just going to clip this guy out and show it to everybody
kudos to that dude
Now our question is did jesus have the alabasteran when he was on the cross
um if they were giving him according to known us the antidote
for the dipsass
He could have had it administered by an alabasteran. Yes
but um
Would it have been obviously there?
um during you know
Look you're opening up a pandora's box now because now i gotta say and you know i'm going to because you know you want to bring it out
When did he get the alabasteran inserted into his rectum?
You know at what time if he's got it there. Was it something they were doing? I mean they
realistically they do have the antidote
They do have the antidote
They could have administered it rectally, but
The antidote was soaked into a sponge so we know it's a fluid right for for oral consumption
technically if he'd used the dipsass
with the purple
Back in the garden when he was with the boy
presumably because the boys possessed the
gelene
Presumably he would have got his antidote back then
Where's the alabasteran come into this?
Is he there on the cross with you? I don't know. You know, he's screaming a lot. Maybe it shot out
Halfway through the crucifixion and people were like look he just burst the little Dionysus
Fantastic. Love. What do you think neil?
Well, he was given something. I mean depending on which gospel we're talking about. I think it's john where he's given some sort of
Sprig
Some some some sort of he's been they're giving him stuff
so
I mean whatever the text says it says but
The fact that he didn't he didn't receive anything. It's just not true. So he was receiving there
Some of that stuff could be drug references
Yeah, what what else you give to a dying person on a cross besides the drug, right?
Right, let's see hercules passes into the underworld overcoming Cerberus with bruce strain hermie
He's by being androgynous
Then there's the castrated boy option. Are these all different options for sex without
insemination
Oh, go ahead. What do you what do you think? I'll let you take that one. That's a good question
There is this what I noticed about what he's the question is also highlighting is there's this uh, there's this
Universal idea that all these sons of god
Have to go through and there's always something to do with
some this is castration or
or some sort of a mat something something to do with like
Castration or the loss of
That type of thing like with adis for example or a donus
There's always something to do with the sex
Met a parts that has to do with like
I'm not and this is what this is what I think goes back to bachas the plucking of the of the vine
um
And there's something to be there's there's something deep about that that's going on there
Is that that makes sense? I just said it does it does um
What is the little what is avid say orpheus is doing that gets in trouble?
Orpheus
The last day before
This is the this is the chapter called the death of orpheus and always metamorphosis
By the way a lot of versions take this part out
So you only only certain versions of this text you will be able to find in english or you got to go to the latin
And then it says that orpheus picked up the thracian rite
The ancient thracian by the way we talk about thracians the thracian pirates
The lace stays right so orpheus is taking up these ancient
Thracian lace stays right and what is the rite that he describes?
Of plucking a young boy's manhood before he becomes of age
That's what it says
Yeah, yeah, you can't
That's a religious rite. We're not just doing you're not just doing it for fun. This is an ancient religious rite, right
Right, this is what do you think this is ebbsteins island or something come on man
This is bigger than that. Um, and it's worked into the it's baked into the empire
That is that bachic empire, which is all those oracles
Speaking love it. Love it. Oh god. This is such wonderful stuff
Neil thank you for coming tonight. Thank you for coming tonight. I feel I feel like I
I feel like um
Like this is a co-creation tonight and your material was just delicious
I loved it and on behalf of everybody satanic initiation and now initiation apocalypse
I think we owe you a
debt and thank you very much
Um, did you want to talk about your next you have a what's your next video coming out?
I kind of gave you a little bit of taste. I'm working on the um
The overlap of jesus in these in these late
Pay late era
I call it late era because paganism so ancient
First cent from the first century to the fourth century. I know it's a big that's a long time 400 years
but
That's the that's the end of it. That's the last we're talking like
You can it's a short little timeline compared to like how ancient these pagans gods are
But how diverse they are in their different regions of the world and they sort of come together in the roman imperial cult as one
That's what the roman imperial cult does is they syncretize all these different religions from pathos
Cyprus and egypt and asia and greece and north africa and they just sort of take all these different gods and sort of
They put them all in the one religion
and
this is what christ in first century when this is
right when rome is really starting to explode in its uh
In its influence over the surrounding regions
In christianity comes out of that soil
of that syncretism soil
And so i'm sort of trying to i'm making as most most of the content is going to be comparing dionysus to jesus
Because i think and i think you can make the argument
Especially if you're immersed i don't think you have to be an expert to say this if you're immersed in the ancient texts
You know dionysus is special
He's not just one of the gods. He's dionysus
He's the sun. He's the great dion. You know what i mean like yeah
Yeah, no no no and the fact that he permeates everything. He's the one god that invades and takes over right and they're like
Oh, yeah, he spread from the east rides all over the place. Yeah, yeah neil
Jesus takes over dionysus and there's i don't i just think anyone who can't see that
I don't want to sound like i'm getting cocky like i know everything because i don't know everything
But i honestly will i'm like my personal opinion
If you can't see that that i just don't think you're immersed in the texts that you say you are
Bravo, bravo well said and you know what if you know the texts better than the people at harvard
Then who's the expert?
Yeah, i'm gonna go that far
Yeah, hail satan hail satan. Hey, thanks everybody for coming tonight
I really appreciate you allowing me to come back
and um, we can look for this again as a workshop for the apocalypse and um
I'll leave the last word to gnostic informant gnostic hail satan
house satan
um
