I never meant anything I said, just spitting it up
Everything I've been feeding, keeping from eating away at me
Never said anything I meant, I never said the letters that I should have said
So it's asking too much for you all to believe
When I say, never meant nobody knows
When I say, never was a cause for alarm
Never knew what I was talking about anyway
Welcome back to Lady Babylon Satanic Initiation
I'm going to invite in tonight into our company
The children, those innocent, youthful children of the Ivy League
You're welcome here tonight
Tonight everything will be bent on showing you what you need
Tonight we're going to talk about some hardcore ancient venom texts
Yeah, this is stuff nobody reads
Now that we know that people from the Bronze Age were all on drugs
We need to know what they're doing
And we need to know what this constellation of drugs is doing
Showing up in our science, love it, absolutely love it
We could not live at more of an apex in civilization
This is fantastic
And hopefully tonight we'll have some redemption
Except for Princeton, they're not welcome
No, hit it, Chewie
Let's throw up before we get started today
Just a quote to get us pushed into the material
To know that we're all serious before we continue our investigation
Could you pull up that quote, please?
Yes, this is a great quote by Jesus
It's in the almond version
Yes, the translation, if you don't have it yet
You should get it
Yes, you're going to arrest me like I'm a child trafficker
Yeah, exactly
You guys at Harvard, how did you guys miss this one?
How are you supposed to know how these drugs are being used if you don't?
We've got to dive in
There's too much goodness here
We've got to dive right into it tonight
So to set it, welcome everybody from the Ivy League, welcome
We're going to look at a couple of texts tonight
They're going to be able to set for us
For all of us in the Satanic congregation
They're going to be able to set for us
That original history that we're looking for
Pure evidence, it's all we do here
Is we smoke that evidence
That's what we do
People are asking, what are they doing with this in their body?
Yes, fantastic
I'm going to roll a clip
Just to set your mind, a little bit of subliminal messaging
See if you can pick up all the symbols
I don't know
I don't know
I don't know
I don't know
I don't know
I don't know
I don't know
I don't know
I don't know
I don't know
I don't know
I don't know
I don't know
I don't know
I don't know
I don't know
I don't know
I don't know
I don't know
I don't know
I don't know
I don't know
I don't know
I don't know
trans dimensional warrant that was put out for one Jesus Christ.
We're going to have some new evidence tonight.
We're going to explain what that naked boy was doing with him in that public
park while he's yelling quote, please.
You're going to arrest me like I'm a child trafficker. Yes. Okay.
Let's get on it for those of you in the advanced core.
Those of you from the Harvard folks,
I want you to focus on lycophron. Get back there. See what's going on.
Right. We're not talking swashbuckling here.
We're talking good old fashioned child trade.
Yes. And all of the lamenting mothers in lycophron who are lamenting their
daughters having been taken away.
I want to jump.
The first thing we're going to do is we're going to necromancer up an ancient
source that nobody ever looks at. And you guys,
this is why you love this. I know you do.
Nobody, nobody touches this guy, not with a 10 football,
not even the guys who study the field who study the medical side.
Not even they like to touch this guy. I mean,
diascortes is one thing like Galen is one thing. My God.
Are we going to talk?
Are we going to talk about Venoms and antidotes and Theriac?
Yes. Yes, we are. Yes, we are. Go ahead and bring us up.
Bring us up our first passage for the day, please.
I just wanted to, to take you to Lemnos.
I just want to take you to Lemnos. And this was kind of little invitation here.
Yeah. A little Perseus, a little bit of, a little bit of commentary.
We're talking about Lemnos and Lemnian fire, right?
Lemnian fire. What? Lemnian fire. What is it? That's something special.
Lemnian fire. What else is Lemnos known for?
It's known for that Miltus. It's known for that
Curell. It's known for that antidote.
It's known for that antidote, right? Why is that?
Well, maybe, maybe we need to look at the Lemnian fire.
What is the Lemnian fire?
Yeah, it burns when you use it.
But don't worry, as our author tonight will explain to you that,
and there's a whole bunch of sources. This is one guy,
but we don't have a date for, right? We don't have a date for him.
I'm going to keep him kind of shrouded mystery a little bit,
but we don't have a date.
Orabaceus is the one who's recording this and who's Orabaceus.
He's that physician who works with Julian,
who we all know as Julian, the apostate, right?
So these guys are interested that the imperial lines
are all interested in preserving the craft around which they operate.
Right? These mysteries are performed
in places where the emperors are the ones using the drugs.
And how do we know that? We know that from our,
you can just dig up a Roman, a physician, a medicus.
He was called, attached to the Roman army with Claudius.
You just grab this guy, Scribonius.
Just grab Scribonius and you look at him and you say Scribonius.
Tell me about the, tell me about the secret formula
and all the antidotes for them. They're using our rights.
Okay. Tell me about Augustus.
What's Augustus using?
You thought Marx-Ralius was the only opium addict, right?
No, no, no, they all were.
Yeah. And we've got the recipe, right?
That Augustus was fond of and these are not symbols.
These are not symbols.
When the people who were finding the hair, right,
who were out there in the field doing their job,
when they find those chemicals, thank you very much.
That's a service to humanity.
When they find those chemicals in there and they want to know,
what's, you know, what's the biological activities?
Come on, why are these people, why are these people have,
we cannot begin to understand this until we think,
not in one dimension,
but in multi-dimensions.
What are they using these for?
They're using constellations of drugs.
Yes, drugs have constellations.
And for those of you like Rich, who are into such things,
into the physics, the physics behind
the Caldy and Magi, anybody's interested in anything like that
is going to appreciate the level of expertise it takes.
The reason people are surprised about the drugs and the hair
is because, you know, this is not an area that classes have studied.
Yeah, I'm going to go back to a text tonight.
I'm going to bring it to you.
It was edited in the early 20th century.
Right, like 1906, 1907.
Wait a minute, that's the last time anybody has serious.
Yeah, it is.
The dude's name was Max Velman.
Yeah. And anyway, there's a whole corpus
that the German classical scholars of the early 20th put together.
And we have all of these documents.
I'm going to be showing you and be showing you one of in these.
We can look at the constellations of drugs that are being used.
This hair is much more than we think it is.
This hair is much more than we think it is.
It will tell us what they are using.
It will tell us what rights are being propagated.
It will tell us people said, where's this?
It's a shaman.
Put that smelly shaman back in the closet.
We're talking colleges of Bronze Age priestesses called a Hidnai.
They have a word for these people, right?
They have a word, the Ioboloi.
They called their God the cat, the poor of the Eos, right?
The one who has that, the one who has that Eos.
These are the people saying Olo Luzo or Alaladzo.
Yeah, these are the Bacchans, these are the Minads.
These are the ones with stained hands, the purple.
Those who are in service to Iternitas, Iternitas.
She who governs the Ions, she who governs the Ions, right?
And who does she have with her?
She has that youth and she has virtue and nature, nature steps up.
Yeah, this is fantastic.
We're going into the rights, right?
OK, now pull up philumines.
Get him, get him.
Where are you going here?
I don't want to see that text.
Wait, bring this back up to you.
Hang on a second here.
I want I want people to see that in this order.
Look at this, people, Corpus Metachorum, Greg Corum.
Here it is. This is all online.
Thank you very much. Thank you very much.
This is all stuff that comes out of Leipzig, right?
And here's a little bit of the introduction.
Prifatio, look, they wrote it in Latin.
Isn't that nice?
That way we don't have to know any German.
Anyway, Max came across this Vatican copy of pseudodiascordies.
And he was so happy to get his hands on it, you know what I mean?
It purports to be a philuminous, right?
Philuminous, a little book.
And the title is, and that's where you can see the Greek there,
Periton Iogloon Zon.
Oh, isn't that nice?
Kaiton in Aotois Boethematon.
All right.
These are the works about those
iobolic, iobolic living creatures.
Yes. And they're Boethematon, right?
The powers, the things that they have.
You can say it's curative, right?
So look where you are.
I just want to stand back.
Now, for the people, for the kids, from the Ivy League,
right, remember that we're dealing with a little more sophisticated.
We're dealing with very well-established shipping of these ingredients, right?
You can find this stuff all over the Mediterranean.
Don't think that you have to look for local plants, right?
From any analysis you get of what chemicals were there,
don't immediately say, oh, if it's not growing here.
No, no, no, that's not.
You're going to find that hair dye that you found, that red ochre.
You're going to find that Lemnian Earth, that Lemnian Earth.
You know what Lemnian Earth is?
You can buy them in little what you and I would call pills or suppositories
or or lozenges.
Yeah, you dissolve these things in wine.
You can put them in your rectum.
It's the way people take medicine and antiquity.
And, you know, it's down to a pretty exact science.
You've got these things stamped, you know, with the physician of who's peddling them, right?
So, you know, anyway, Galen's out dealing drugs, right?
He's out buying drugs on Limnos.
He's like, dude, these guys have what it takes.
They've got the crank, right?
So, he goes out to them and he's looking for this mealtose.
He's looking for it.
He wants to know about the fire.
He wants to know about the blood and he asked him about the blood of the goat.
And they laugh at him, right?
The locals do, because he didn't know what he's doing, right?
This is Galen and these are the locals on Limnos.
Yeah, laughing at him.
Good. Good.
Does everybody see what direction we're going?
Let's go back to here.
Let's go to this one, Chewie.
Thanks a lot.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I just want you to see at the end of his preface, right?
He comes to the end of his preference, his preface there.
And he gives thanks to all those great people that, you know, helped him out
and humanitarian, you know, people.
Who's in the project of helping him in this?
You know, good for them.
Yeah, the ones who helped him with this addition.
Look at the names there.
OK, so these are deals, right?
Villamovitz. Yeah.
OK, so I thought that was nice.
Thank you, Mox, for giving us this text.
Let's look at a little bit of philuminous here.
I want to see, give me that nice title page again.
Well, that's OK here.
Let's show the folks this.
This is a list of the chapters, right?
And this is the later chapters.
I think I gave you, I just want you to see here.
You can just run down this list.
Aspidon, Ejis, Kerasdes, Presteres, Dipsas, Saimurus, those are all snakes.
Yeah, those are all snakes.
Saps, Hudros, Druinoi.
Do we know the species of these snakes?
We have to go to people like this guy in order to identify them.
Look under the lambda, right?
Dracon. Well, how does a dracon differ from a Dipsas?
Right? And the Presteres.
And you're not now as a classicist, you have to kind of step
into a more scientific world.
You know that.
And that's why you guys avoid these texts.
I mean, am I wrong?
No, no, I'm not wrong.
And now that you know that people were using drugs and antiquity,
maybe, maybe all that flak that you gave everybody who said that they were,
maybe you should shut up.
Yeah, I just told Harvard and Yale and not Princeton
because they cut their own head off and killed their Greek program.
You bozos, you incredible, incredible bozos.
Flash something up here.
Scary. Is there anything we can put up here?
Put a bit of that face again.
Give us a face.
This is what, yeah, this is what you people deserve.
Just flash something.
Yeah, come on, Chewie.
There we go.
Well, I'm saying my little thing, leave it up there.
This is for the people at Princeton who have just decided, believe it or not,
this is incredible, not just now, but months ago, maybe a year.
They decided to kill their Greek program.
They decided to kill it.
Why? Because it's the language of the oppressor.
You know why those people are committing suicide and doing you a disservice?
Because they're taking these texts away from you and doing so.
They're doing it because they're insane.
Right? They're insane.
This is an insanity.
This is an insanity.
You are not there.
You people at Princeton, you are not there to do anything but guard the text.
You are not there to do anything.
But keep that museum open and the only way to do that is through the Greek.
If you can't do it because it's too hard, you should admit it and you should say,
we're just going to study this in translation and have ancient Mediterranean
civilization courses.
Now, a lot of professors out there will know, will know that what I'm saying is
correct and they will say, good for you for doing it, but they will do so for
you for doing it, but they will do so very quietly.
OK, so what do we have to say to the rest of the kids that are here?
The ones that aren't from Princeton.
Let's look at the drugs and how they are used in order to get a better idea
of this profile, what these people are doing, what these Menorchins are doing.
Right? And not just them, but everybody across the Mediterranean.
This is not the only place in the world that they've got drugs.
Remember, you can buy this stuff.
You can buy North African Viper venom in Rome.
Yeah, I can get up in the morning.
I can walk down to the market.
I can see the stalls they set up.
They have plaques for their for the type of stall they're using, right?
Doctor so and so.
And they sell their drugs, right?
Medicus, say doctor, medicus and sell their drugs.
Right? You know, all their different, all their different pills
that are dissolved in wine are stuck in your rectum.
They've got all the oils, right?
You can put on the skin.
Did you know they've got stuff that you plaster your skin?
Oh, this is good.
I'm I'm I'm ruining I'm ruining the show.
I got to keep going.
Let's go to the next.
Yeah, here we go. I just wanted you to see this is concerning those
those yellow boy, right?
This is those poisonous animals right at the top, right?
There's poisonous living things and what they're doing.
OK, look at this word.
Right in the beginning of this treatise, we deal with loose
Lissa or Lusso is the verb is contract.
Nice contract.
And it means to rave or be mad.
And look at Roman numer number two of dogs to suffer from rabies,
right? Because this is the context we see the mad dog in, right?
OK, and what do we do with the mad dog?
Well, we know that there are substances that can induce madness
and can stifle madness.
And now, for those of you who are classists who are thinking, oh,
wait a minute, didn't they give hellbore to somebody that caused
the daughters of somebody not to get not to stop going crazy?
Yes, they did.
And do you know why?
Because these irracular priestesses and colleges are
taking your sanity and balancing it,
balancing it with the use of their chemicals.
Yes, yes, right?
Those drugs that were in that Bronze Age find
those drugs are not the good hallucinogens, right?
Those drugs are the scary hallucinogens.
So why would you want that in your system in the first place?
Why would you want the Lemnian fire?
OK, let's go to Heracles.
This is a translate.
This is just a translation.
Go there.
This is just the dipsasses, the therion, right?
And I just wanted you to see.
We're going to we're going to look at a description here.
This first paragraph is just a description of the dipsass.
And apparently he's short.
He's only about a length of your arm.
Yeah. And he's got these black spots on him with a kind of a
tawny, amberish brown, that kind of thing color.
Yeah. OK. Anyway, this is how we start to get into.
OK, what? Well, who's who's using this and what?
You know, are these about just bites that people are picking up?
Or what are these things that?
No, no, no, these are part of compound recipes.
We do have bites, right?
And you can include the bite of an arrow to be the very same,
the very same administration, right?
This is from like a fraud.
I just want you to look about halfway down the end of the line
and would that my father had not spurned the nightly terrors
of the Oracle of Issacus and that for the sake of my fatherland,
he had made away with two in one doom,
ashing their bodies with limny and fire.
Wait, what? Ashing their bodies with limny and fire.
Yeah, what? What does that mean?
What does that mean? Hey, look at here.
This just let's bring up Achilles.
Excuse me, Heracles, a few a few lines later, right?
What happened to him, right?
Whom the hide of the lion made invulnerable by the bronze in battle
and who possessed but one past the Hades and the dead.
Wait, wait, he had a path to Hades and the dead.
OK, you're beginning to see the resurrection right, right?
OK, fellow necromancers, here we are.
Don't don't start to scare the kids.
They're just here to find out what those drugs were doing.
Who possessed but one past the Hades and the dead?
That which the Scythian quiver covered.
Do you like that?
Yeah, the Lemnian Thunderbolt, the Lemnian Thunderbolt.
Why am I picking on Lemnos and why am I picking?
You guys don't know it, but Odysseus is a huge drug user, right?
Odysseus is a huge drug user.
You don't know it because you don't read authors like McCander.
McCander is a poet who is a priest,
who is a master of the Therriac and the drugs that are used in Ritu.
Within the right itself.
So that's some of the information we get through those sources
that your typical classes are not going to get.
All right, it's a it's a sad and a shameful thing, but it's the way life is.
I want to look at a couple more of these texts.
Oh, what do we have here?
Something something jumped in here.
I think I'm feeling queasy or something.
What is this? Oh, it's axe.
It's axe, right?
It's the axe of the Apostles, right?
I did so thin days.
Oh, no, this is where Paul is having his shipwreck.
Yeah, and he comes to Melite, the island.
See that in the first line, Melite, he comes to Malta.
Oh, perhaps there was some Miltos involved.
All we're doing are we changing vows?
Yeah, we're just tuning vows.
Don't worry about it. It's all connected.
Where is this place?
Remember those pirates that we talked about who were trading the drugs
and trading the children?
This is on their way between Africa and Italy.
Isn't that nice? That's gorgeous.
I love this.
So it ends up being a place where there are these Barbaroi
and Paul ends up washing up on shore.
And these Barbaroi, these locals are like, hey,
let's give this guy a hand and they start doing nice things for me.
Build them a fire, right?
And why? Because it's cold and rainy, right?
And so Paul goes to get some wood, right?
And he's putting it on the fire when this is the one, two, three,
fourth lying down about a third of the way in.
Ehidna. Ehidna apotestermes ex elfusa.
This Ehidna, this Viper jumps out from the fire, right?
And grabs on to his hand and the Barbaroi on the next line.
They saw it. They saw it holding on to the Thedeon, right?
We just saw in the passage before.
We just saw the description of the Thedeon.
And what it's venom does, OK?
So here's another Thedeon grabbing on to Paul when he's in Malta, right?
And they said to each other, Pantos, this is a beautiful line.
This guy, there's no way this guy is not a murderer.
Why? Why?
Because after washing up from the sea,
DK with a capital delta DK.
Look at it, fourth line from the bottom of the end, DK.
The goddess, right?
She's not going to let him live.
After all that he's been through, she's not going to let him live.
He must be some kind of, you know, he's got some blood guilt on his hand
or he's got something, right?
If you're hearing a little religion in this, OK, yes, yes, right?
Remember the Christians, the Christians.
The monotheists are the atheists, right?
You can't be a monotheist without rejecting every other God but one.
And if DK justice is a pagan polytheist God, right?
You know, Eros, you know, you don't accept Eros, you don't accept DK.
How can I trust you?
How can I trust you not to revolt and take over the government, right?
How can we trust you?
If we're in the first century Rome, we know what Nero is using.
You you classes, it's not there.
We have Nero's private stop.
We have his recipe.
You are sitting.
You are sitting on the cure to cancer.
You're sitting. Let me let me say it again, because it sounds like.
It's out there.
You are sitting on the cure to cancer.
You're sitting on the revolution and medicine.
You're sitting on the future of what you'll be doing as soon as I'm telling
as soon as the molecular scientists, right, can model this stuff,
can do the computer modeling for what's going on with all these substances.
Yeah, your time is done.
It's a new world. It's a new world.
The London Times said of my work that it was the last frontier of classics.
And that was after coming to your paper that I gave.
I can tell you for a fact, this will be your doom.
If you do not become guardians of the tax.
Yes, you did not become guardians of the tax.
Let's get a little bit more. I said it's a little too preachy.
I don't mean to be preachy.
Back to Paul's thing here, though.
I just want you to notice the guys that said, hey, he got he got bitten.
And he's not, you know, he's he must be, you know, not a
not on the good side of justice, right?
They said.
We're they're expecting him to him.
Plus they they were expecting him to do this.
They were expecting him.
Yeah, let's bring down that. There we go.
They were expecting him to want to burn up to blow up to distend.
In most translations, you'll see some kind of swelling going on here.
But when you were talking about the use of a venom,
when there is a venom involved, we are now squarely in verb play, though,
which is the root, P row towel.
I know it's a theta, but it's an aspirated theta.
That's the P row towel root.
And just like the sigma towel row root or the S.T.R.
root, that is the central beating heart of the Orphic Colt.
So is the P row towel.
The P row towel plays the same route.
The S.T.R. does, like S.T.R. uses that.
By the way, Sotera is the first, right?
The Sotera is the first.
She who saves comes before he who saves.
Yeah. And how do we know that?
Look into the firmament.
Look into the stair.
Look into the stair.
Look into the stela oma, and you can see the virgin.
Every time, every time, yeah, stela.
Look at it, classicists, my fellow classicists.
Look at these texts.
Look at these texts.
You need to comprehend because people now, I'm going to say this.
This is, are you listening?
I'm going to say this, OK?
Get ready.
Get ready, classicists.
They are using people as manufacturing devices for drugs.
Yes, yes.
And they're doing it the very sophisticated way within colleges.
Wow. So when we find the hair that is painted, that we see those
dimetrient priestesses, yes, when we see that they've got the mealtos,
that they've got the mealtos in their hair.
And why is that?
It is for Erucibe.
It is for her.
It is for Demeter, that gold, those golden grains.
It's waving those fields of golden grains, right?
Yes, that is the lingo of a whole bunch of sophisticated biochem.
It's a whole bunch of sophisticated religion.
It's a whole bunch of cult.
And there's a good reason that they all use that burning purple, right?
As their base.
There's a reason for that.
Now, what is this?
What light does the shed on Jesus and that naked kid?
Because that's what it's all about.
You didn't come here.
You didn't come here to talk to Philemonus and find out how do you treat your
how do you treat your your body who is now under the influence of too much
Spanish fly, right, and is having a problem?
What do you do to bring that down?
What do you do to bring down the level of mania?
All right.
And somebody's somebody's mental state.
How do you cause you guys from you guys from the Ivy League?
Did you know you didn't?
Did you know that women were able to control these these women
that Cambridge says are from Athens and sat around in their homes and did nothing,
right, regardless of the great Athena?
Hmm.
We find out that those women were able to modulate their level of bleeding
during menstruation.
Yeah, that's sophisticated.
It sounds like something you would want to be able to do.
Well, it turns out they're on the religious side.
They're doing the very same thing.
Remember, these are all the oyster mania is brought about by a cult
that is treating birth, right?
That is heralding in birth.
They're the ones who are that you call on, right?
You can get their drugs to induce birth to induce birth act like oxytocin
injection gives somebody a bolus of oxytocin, right?
Get the contractions going.
They know it too.
They're doing the same work in the same pathways, right?
But it's this group of highly skilled women that develops these rights.
So when we see that the glimny and earth, that fire that balances that serpent,
that venom, yeah, and we see the bronze foot.
Yeah, and we see her with her lingerie on bringing in the apocalypse.
That morning star.
Yeah, we've got to start thinking bronze age, we've got to start looking.
One of the things that I noticed, I had the distinct pleasure in in my
education of working, of working on linear B. Yeah, with none other than Emmett Bennett,
who, you know, was involved in cracking it.
And I thought it was hilarious that the, the more I looked, the less I could find
that didn't have something to do with drugs.
Yeah, the shipment of the ordering of the storing of different drugs.
So that when I came to people and said they were using drugs and antiquity and
they said, Mr Hillman, the Romans just wouldn't do such a thing.
That's the ignorance kiddies from the ivory tower that you have been subjected to.
Now it's time to pull your heads out.
It's time to look at these texts and to see the sophistication for what it is.
And when you see the multi dimensional polypharmaceutical approach,
you might understand something about those Medusai.
You might understand something about all that poison culture.
You might understand something about urinating, ejaculating, drinking the sweat.
Yes, yes, you might see Eve even, you might even see Eve and understand.
You guys know that's not written in Hebrew.
You know that text is written in Greek.
Otherwise you wouldn't get centaurs that are pulled out by the Mazarets.
You guys know that, right?
We have to be careful with these texts.
The fact that classes are surrendered, the biblical texts is why we today have to ask
the question, what was Jesus doing in public park at four a.m.
with a naked boy screaming at the Roman squad that had showed up to arrest him,
saying, I am not a child trafficker.
Yeah, yeah, you will be surprised when you enter into the mystery.
You will be surprised.
Yeah, I love this.
I love this.
Thank you guys for coming tonight.
I've taken more time from the devil than I should have.
Now I'm going to have to pay for it.
I encourage everybody with an earshot who wants to elucidate that mystery.
I encourage you to get access to these materials.
I encourage you to pull them out.
I will keep bringing you the mysteries and people have requested that I show the imperial side,
that we look at some of the cult use of drugs among Imperials.
This is fantastic from stuff that you will not have access to.
Nobody, nobody tries to get access to these materials.
From stuff that you will not have access to.
Nobody, nobody translates this stuff.
Remember Max Wellman, right?
He's, he's a Vatican archive.
He's like, wait a minute.
This is a, my God, this is a great text on, on these Therriac, these, you can't have a beast.
When you have seals, I got news for you.
When you've got seals, I'm talking to the evangelicals now.
When you've got seals, you don't even know what those are.
The classes, you don't know what a seal is, do you?
Did you know that you stick a seal in your rectum?
Stick a seal in your rectum.
Shame on you people.
The drugs, look up the Trohiscoi, look at them.
Those wheels that you guys are always confusing that the Christians cannot explain.
That's just words for a specific type of drug applicator.
Yeah, it's just the way that the drug is dispensed.
You guys didn't even know, did we have, I'm sorry, I got to show this.
There's one more, maybe I didn't include it, but I really, no, I really wanted you guys to see.
No, I forgot it.
Take that down.
I forgot it.
Shame on me.
But I wanted you to see the Christing.
I wanted you to know, infiluminous is the Christing.
And we talk about it.
What do you do when you get Christed, right?
What do you do?
You know why?
If you get in trouble for, if you get exposed to a venom that you don't have an immunity to,
that's your own fault.
You have not been Christed.
You have not been Christed.
I guarantee it with as much water as they got out of his gut when they poked it with a spear
after he died prematurely on the cross and suddenly yelling, I'm thirsty.
I'm thirsty.
And some lines that are clearly from the papyri Greikai Magikai.
Blamasabakthon.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I guarantee you if you were to have Jesus's hair, you would have drugs and you would have
a constellation of drugs that you could then say, Hey, hey, hey, wait a minute.
Wait a minute.
What fits this constellation?
What are they using this for?
Yeah, it's like a fingerprint.
You can fit it like a fingerprint.
And when Jesus died prematurely on that cross, he wasn't, didn't die from the crucifixion.
He died before.
Yeah.
And they were like, Oh, he's dead.
Shouldn't be dead yet.
Right.
He's drinking that water.
Yeah.
Fantastic.
I want to know why you guys have been over this evidence before.
So I don't want to, I don't want to rehash it.
But as this investigation is going, and let's admit it, right?
We don't have Scotland yard on our side, right?
We need to, we need to lay it out, to lay out the case with the evidence, without any
sort of bias or phony agenda, without belonging to any schools or any groups or any
religions or any cults or any covens.
Yeah.
Cause remember, I'm going to flip on y'all.
I'm flipping on y'all as soon as they come in.
Inquisition.
Um, well, by the way, you can open it up on the witch's side too.
Now I'm just, I should stop.
I should stop.
No, I apologize for taking up more of your time than I'm worthy of.
I apologize.
Um, well, we can also create, this is a new mechanism.
I show you this philological mechanism we can create because the language leaves a
trace over time, we can follow it through say the middle ages.
And we can look at the chemical profiles in the middle ages that are being used.
And yes, we do have them because we know what the witches are always arrested with.
And we have an account of, of Michelet that talks about in France, talks about
that tripod and what the Oracle is doing on what the Saabat is and what Lucifer is.
Right.
We have all of that.
So we can take those little periods of time as well.
And we can write out a history of how the drugs have been used over time.
We can watch and paint, right, an accurate portrait now because we have
tracers in these drugs.
Everybody, somebody asked me today, somebody asked me today, how do you keep from, you
know, where do you start and how do you keep from getting lost?
Right.
You will get lost and you will perish if you don't hold on in this cave to the
line that runs through it.
And that line is the science of the pharmacology.
Remember, we serve iternitas who stands with nature.
Nature has left that fingerprint there for us to pull out.
As long as we hold on to that reason and we hold on to that line through the cave,
you know, you're bound to get out.
You won't fall off.
You know, there's places here where you can fall off and drown.
Right.
So, okay, fantastic, fantastic.
I've talked way too much tonight.
I want to say one thing before I leave.
I've got two books here that are talking to each other.
They're talking to each other.
I just want to quote them in this.
I just wanted to say the devil's magic nowadays is on the first floor, a fine
and well-selected medical library, which these young surgeons with their own money
and at the expense of their pleasures are incessantly adding to,
less dancing and fewer mistresses, more science and brotherly love.
Yeah, yeah.
What are those books?
What are those books that we're looking at?
Destructive of old, constructive now.
In the chemical laboratory, the devil is hard at work
preparing what is to alleviate the poor sailor's pain and cure his ills.
That coming, that Merlinian prophecy of the coming of the cure, the coming of the cure.
Yeah, it's all there.
And what year, sir?
1847?
1847.
In the year 1847, physicians were reading this book, this very book that I'm holding.
Look at how nice the binding is.
Your books are nothing.
Your books are nothing these days.
Look at the paper.
Look at the paper.
Do you see any yellowing on that paper?
No, you do not, because this is how books were made.
Well, people knew how to make books.
Yeah, so 10 years before, 10 years before, this is what people are reading, right?
And Galen is going to that place in Lemnos,
where the locals aren't exactly impressed with his drug knowledge,
but he's able to acquire the drugs that he needs there.
That is what is in your Bronze Age hair.
It's too bad we don't have their skins.
It's really too bad we don't have their skins.
Some of this stuff, you can lick and get high.
Some of these books, you can lick and get high.
They're skins.
They're not books.
They're skins, right?
Oh, God, I love it.
That's the blood.
That's the blood.
Are you guys ready?
That Miltos?
That's the blood.
Yeah, love it.
Okay, we've had a thank you for letting me roll on a little bit more than I should have.
I appreciate everybody tonight.
Thanks for coming.
I will not.
I will try to stop by.
I've got a couple of things going on.
I'm going to try to stop by the chat just to say hello tonight on the
after this.
I need a couple of minutes here to freshen up.
I'm going to try to jump on there, but I may only be able to come on for a few minutes.
It's an honor and a pleasure always to the folks who came tonight from the Ivy League.
Yeah, you can stand back up.
You can stand back up.
You take these sources in hand.
You can take these sources in hand.
Let's help these archaeologists to know the mystery.
To know the mystery.
Fantastic.
Hail Satan.
