Earning the tab.
Something's the little bitch that you give to the goddess.
Athena follows the duciest around.
She makes men fulfill their desires.
To be worth a woman.
Crystal of Aphrodisiac.
Once you are out producing the theory eggs.
Watch out, your brain will open up.
Athena with a purple cup.
Change your world, control the crush.
You begin to face the wrong move.
As you get better seen.
Wish you would.
Change your world, control the crush.
You begin to face the wrong move.
As you get better seen.
Wish you would.
Welcome back to Lady Babylon.
This is Initiating Apocalypse.
What I am going to bring to you tonight
is going to fill you with great joy and appreciation.
I'm going to give you a view that we haven't had before.
And I'm going to bring these texts out to you
and cause you to slip into the state of reality.
I love this stuff.
I love this stuff.
Don't listen.
Don't listen to them.
Right?
That's what I told them.
Don't listen to them.
But they always do.
Wax.
You got to tie yourself down.
You got to put wax in your ears.
Right?
It's one of the two.
Tonight what I'd like to bring you is usual.
We'll look at a couple of Hebrew texts
that took the Greek original
and just slammed it into the ground.
Just cut off every pedal.
All the buds.
Step them off.
All you got is a stem left.
It's got thorns on it.
Tonight we're going to look at a couple more of those examples
because of what we're doing.
I kind of want to give the congregation
the big picture tonight.
What has rankled people
is the revelation of what a Christ is
and the revelation of the naked boy with Jesus
and the revelation that Moses and Yahoo were born
in the third century.
Those are the three things
that really are getting to people.
So I am doing the best job that I can to show you.
And to be honest, it's easy.
It's easy.
Not just because it's the muse,
because the translation into Hebrew from the Greek
is taking a step from 1.7 million, 1.5 million
down to 7,000 unique words.
And that's not a step down.
That's a plummet.
Scholars, scholars can look at the texts.
You can look at the text.
It's the evidence that we have, right?
And the evidence shows us that we are living a lie
and I am here to free you.
I'm here to free you from that lie.
To the reality, which is not always so bright.
It's difficult to tell Muslims, Jews, Christians.
Did you know that your religions descend from rights?
Polytheistic rights, where you all once worshiped
the great Urania.
Yeah, all over the Mediterranean.
She was all over the Mediterranean.
This is Uranian mystery cult that I bring you tonight.
Now, Gnostic is going to come on and look,
and after I'm done with my bit, he's going to come on
and he's going to give you a bit,
and that bit's going to have little bits about madness
from antiquity with sources, right?
Hopefully, we'll supplement each other
with the right material.
It's fantastic.
Look at what we do for you.
That's what we do.
And you don't have to buy a t-shirt.
What is this?
Hail to Urania.
Nice.
Hail to Cleo.
Who is Cleo?
Cleo is the muse of history.
Cleo is the muse of history.
Hail Satan.
We're going to look at her tonight.
Who is Urania?
Who is the muse of Uranus?
Isn't that gorgeous?
All right.
Let's go.
Let's go find the muse.
But in the way, we're going to bump up against this terrible,
laughably bad translation,
and it really makes theologians.
This is the other thing we're doing,
and I just want to remind you this.
So, everybody here at Satanic congregation knows
that I am trying to...
Somebody is trying to set me up, right?
For engagement.
Engagement with great leaders,
intellectual leaders, thinkers.
Yeah.
I don't know if you could call them that.
But it turns out that these people are unwilling to engage
because they are out of their depth and they know it.
Very wisely, they know it.
You find somebody who's capable,
and the head of Dallas Theological Seminary's Greek program,
Dr. Darrell Bock, he's not capable.
Jordan Peterson, incapable.
And why is that, people?
That's only for one reason,
because we follow the muse.
We honor those texts and that evidence.
We use the reason that we've got.
We use it.
We're not looking for Nephilim.
Isn't that nice to be in Satanic congregation
and not have to be looking for Nephilim and alien this...
Oh, God, from Galaxy Z.
Isn't that nice?
We don't have to deal with that.
We don't have to deal with moons that are death stars.
Why?
What keeps us sane here
that seems to permeate the environment around you?
The insanity.
What keeps us sane?
Reason.
Reason.
Nature.
Oh, God.
The great accounting.
There's things that you can look at that just capture your soul.
I'm going to give you some of those tonight.
Are you ready?
Your souls for the people online
who think this is a conspiracy of some sort.
Right?
With the funny things that are coming up.
First of all,
if you're going to do a video,
don't use modern Greek.
Right?
Right?
Right?
Second of all,
there's a lot of state things that are facts
for which you have evidence.
Right?
Those are the...
You're not going to wrestle for long
in the gymnasium of Paideia
if you can't come to grips with that reality.
Okay?
So, everybody seated on the throne.
Seated on the throne.
Let's get our Scythian thing going.
Let's get our Scythian thing up tonight.
And get the perception
of what these words are saying.
They're reaching out to us.
I wanted to put up this comment first.
I wanted to put up this comment.
Focus on this for a second.
These lessons have opened my eyes
to what I've always subconsciously knew.
I love my wife and daughters
even more now than ever.
What has been done to women
by these modest pisses me off
to no end.
I'm glad to be here learning history
and mystery
with all of you beautiful humans.
That's a statement.
Write out.
Write out of an academy.
Write out of a
Renaissance resurgence
of the classics.
Right?
This is what happens.
Opens up.
It opens up the mind.
This is not faith.
This is reason
our universe
is supported by reason.
Not faith.
Faith is what you get from
modest movements.
Yes.
And then you get all sorts of
genocide
and persecution
and torture.
It gets gruesome.
Monism is a terrible,
terrible historical disease
that's going around.
Doesn't have the environment either.
Fantastic.
How do we know this?
Go back to the 14th century.
BC.
And check out what happens
when the monastery
from totally different group
and they don't know any gods you know
blah blah blah.
And you'll see why it's similar.
This is why it's important
that we're sitting here.
We're going to review this
because it was that important.
You who don't like reviews, come here.
By the way, for the guy
who sent me the comment,
that comment about I repeated
something that I had used before.
Yeah.
That was for your wife.
Okay.
My son, my child,
do you imagine
that they will ever again restore
literature or anything excellent?
Satanic congregation,
the time is at hand
when men will live worse than
wild beasts.
For now,
antichrist is at hand
even at the doors
and evil precursors
are kind of
evil precursors.
Evil precursors in the shape
of monstrous doctrines.
Monstrous doctrines.
Unlawful practices.
No better than
the orgies of Bacchus.
Those
must usher in
his advent.
Isn't that delightful?
And whatever things have been represented
by the Greeks and their Tragedians
as Saturn and Thaestes and tantalists
devouring their offspring
and the adipus debauching
his hot mother
and Kennyris, his daughters,
all these fearful enormities
will break in upon
our state.
What do you think?
What do you think, those
Byzantine
folks were up to
writing such things
predicting the future?
What do you think they were all about?
Do you know what it says? It says
in order for the Antichrist to come
in order
for the Antichrist to come.
Yeah.
What must happen?
Those
lawless
rights must
be revealed.
Here they are.
Are you ready for some lawless rights?
Are you ready? Have you gotten ready?
Did you put your perfume on
tonight? Did you put your
cologne in the right places?
Are you
ready? Let's go
see
that world that these texts
are talking about. Give it to me.
Give it to me. And on the way
remember it's Medea
who subjects that child
to death
in order to burn off
their mortality.
Christ
give it to me. Give me
the next one. Are you ready?
Boom. And how are they doing this?
They are
taking those
pharmaceutical
powers.
Those
theriacs. Those compound
substances.
They're using the drugs
to do it.
I'm going to show you Jesus and Paul
involved with a dude
not the same dude.
Involved with a dude who's
crazy.
Are you ready?
Give it to me. And yes
it's new. You
hate the, oh I should do it again.
Come here. What is her name?
What is her name? I don't know.
I'm sensing something. I don't know.
It's sweet. Something Nancy?
There you go Nancy. How's that?
You know what
you should do?
Take him to Cersei.
Clip, clip. Are you ready?
You will lift up serpents
and
drink that
death inducer.
And it won't hurt you. You will put,
now this is the part of the verse we never
talk about, you'll put
your hands on those
who are ill and
they will get
better. They will get
better.
That is Jesus Christ
performing the
mystery.
Performing the mystery.
Mystery involves the death
inducer.
And it involves you entering a state
coming out of it.
And then your interaction with
an eyes open world.
Fantastic.
Fantastic. You mean that's
religion is coming down to pharmaceuticals?
Well that and a lot of sex.
That lot of sex.
And that side gets corrupted.
It's always easy to get corrupted.
And we're going to see who's
involved in it here in a second.
Again, all these are going to be
new references. Are you ready?
Look what's happening to here.
Where are we getting our arrows
people? We're getting our arrows
from the muses.
And what are these
arrows doing? Look at that
second line.
That is a combination
of the purple and
lightning together.
What comes out
of that beautiful, beautiful
muse
what comes out
that direct speech
her arrow is poisoned
with
purple lightning.
Purple lightning.
Do you know what you're not supposed to do
for the mystery?
You're not supposed to reveal.
When you reveal
you become struck
by the lightning.
Apocalypse.
Are you ready for apocalypse? Here's another one.
Give it to me. Give me new stuff.
They want to send new stuff.
I'm going to bring you new stuff. We need to look at
you know me up people.
This is a goddess daughter of
Thymus. Who is Thymus? Thymus is
that miraculous divinity
who
represents the laws
the customs that
keep you and I
from destroying each other.
That is Thymus. You mean those
laws were handed down on the mountain
from a guy watching a bush
burn? No!
That law
principle.
I can hear all of the nerds.
Come here
come here
you Syrians and you Sumerians.
You
You're such
great swallowed you.
Great swallowed you.
Great swallowed you.
What's happening
here?
You know
me is a Sotera.
I want you to look at the top line.
Look at the second to last word.
Does that sound familiar to you if you're a Christian?
It's because it's the word for savior.
Only it's a word that is feminine.
Before there was a man's savior, there was a woman's savior, right?
When Jews and Muslims and Christians all worshiped Aphrodite, yeah, they had no problem
with the uranium power of a woman.
They had no problem with it whatsoever.
Yes.
Do you know what they were into?
They were into gender transitions.
You might say that's forward looking, forward looking.
Yes.
Some, remember Jesus walking around is telling people, some kids are made.
Unix, for the sake of the kingdom of God, right?
Some kids are made that way for that sake, you know what I mean?
The ones that can go through that, good for them, right?
Fantastic.
Fantastic.
What did you think they were doing with all the drugs?
Give me the next one.
Give me the next one.
Okay, this is new.
I promised you new.
I promised you new.
I wanted you to see, you know me, just the Greek term here, and I'm going to look at number
two, loyalty to divine law.
Isn't that nice?
You mean they had divine law before they had Moses?
Yeah, they did.
They did, right?
Personified is the daughter of them.
Just give me the next one.
Give me the next one.
Okay, you ready for this?
Are you ready?
I'm going to tell you what this says, and I'm going to tell you where this is from.
It's a command.
It's a command and injunction not to harm my Christ.
Who am I?
I'm yahoo I'm yahoo and you cannot touch my Christ
Yeah, you can't do anything bad to my people who are in prophetic trance
Wait a minute what that is from the Psalms the Psalms kiddies
Psalm is a Greek word
Did you think it was Hebrew music? Isn't that funny? It's not
Look at the courses they even talk about the courses the instruments. They're using and everything
It's all Greek. There is no Hebrew. Oh
My god, let's see. Let's see what happens in translation then because this is going to be funny, right?
We have to if we are third century
If we are third century people trying to
Create a world to describe
Ligious experience and
We're creating these characters like Moses and what it only makes sense that they have very
Bacchic attributes, right that they have the attributes of the culture around them during the time which this is being written
Right, you can't let fashions modern fashions slip into your historical fiction
Right did anybody see in the last episode the bug on the thumbnail, right?
The guy in the corner the prophet had a watch
The fact is you're being given that which is fake
You're being sold that which is fake
It's fake history
It's fake history and how do we know the real history from the text man? Look at the text bring that psalm up again
What does that psalm say?
Bring up the Greek perfect. Yeah, it's talking about protecting my Christ and my prophets
Huh, that's weird now for you evangelical Christians out there. I thought there was only one Christ
Apparently there's not
Apparently there were Christ's in Euripides
politics when
really really horny
Phaedra
Came up and said look I gotta have this young guy. I gotta have this young guy
Right, it's just it's gotta happen. Do you have any drugs and her nurse was like?
Which one do you want? I got a Christ and I got a
potable
Christ or potable which one you you want to rub it into your eyes, Phaedra. You want to rub it into your eyes and other places?
Do you want to drink it? Do you want to put it in there? They also put it in their rectum. There's another way of drug administration
Right point is they're on drugs. Let's watch them on drugs. I'm gonna show you right now Paul
literally
dripping in drugs
Do you know what they drank in antiquity? I'm gonna tell you now and then I'm gonna show you you dirty
dirty dirty people. Do you know what they drank in?
antiquity
They drank Paul's
testicular sweat
Paul's testicular sweat. No wonder that dude got mad and flipped out that dude flipped out during the riot chewy
They were having the riot with Paul and the dude flipped out and he was like no
No, this is not how it's gonna work right now. It was seven other dudes. He already did it with Paul. Oh
It was seven up. Let's bring him up. Let's bring him up this you guys are gonna love this
Are you ready? The people didn't know that Paul was involved Paul's the biggest junkie on the planet
Is that the one we just did? Yeah? Yeah, that's it go to the next one
There's just just for people to see some English, you know translations of it, right? Is it your anointed ones?
Is it your chosen people? You know what I mean? What is it?
What is it? It's not any of that right because it's in the Greek because that is gonna be a translation of the dumb
Down translation that is the Hebrew
Okay, the English is gonna be a translation of that Hebrew not of the Greek original give me that
That's why it's so important for us to get to get it
Yeah, so the kings of the earth. This is another song
Got together the rulers
They got together
to fight against this curious and against his
Christos and against his Christos
You mean this drug guy is all over
the the
Old Testament the Jewish scriptures
So-called you mean this dude is all yeah
There's a whole bunch of them because you see that's a whole part of getting high and seeing visions that is prophetic
It's the whole time people ask me
People ask me dr. Hillman. Why why is this the information you're bringing is compelling
But why is it that nobody else has seen this before?
I'll tell you why I'll tell you why you lazy bastards
It's because nobody was reading any of these documents. Nobody was reading the medical side
Yeah
Yeah, and I'm just fortunate to have stumbled on to it
You know what I mean and that that's metal finding that for me has been metal
It's been better than better than getting blacklisted better than getting kicked out of a university
Better than being involved in legal this and legal that in order to restore
Those rights of free speech
It turns out you can teach the Bible, but you have to teach it like they want you to teach it
Which is funny because here is our conundrum again. Why doesn't Jordan Peterson?
Debate me why doesn't he talk to me about Jesus? He doesn't know we don't have to debate
I hate debate
We just talk about Jesus. We can talk about Christ. We can talk about ancient Greek
We can talk about the Old Testament
Being a document given to us by the tongue ancient Greek
Yes, it's too bad. Don't worry. It wasn't just Hebrew. They stomped. They also stomped all this era mag people like
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah make
Yeah era make was the fly that was going around
God, I can't get it mother. Great was stomping everybody
Everybody she even put Latin
The imperial language she even put Latin in her place
Can you believe that?
God those people were powerful too when you and what's the proof you say?
What's the proof almond? You want the proof go to the library that they just opened up in Herculaneum and scan those
Scan those papyrus rolls the scrolls
Go look at those
Yeah, yeah
You're gonna be surprised
You're gonna be surprised. It's Greek
Overwhelming majority is Greek. Why in Rome, right or in Pompeii Herculaneum really?
Yeah, really
All right, what language books?
Do you purchase in antiquity you purchase Greek books?
You purchase Greek books nobody buys Latin books
All right. Oh, they'll have a few in the library
Overwhelming majority will be Greek. Why because Greek did that to everyone
When you can express
a concept like
Erotic mania that leads to vision
When you can put that into a word
Your language is a monster your language will devour everybody. That's an Amazonian woman. That's who it is. Where is she?
Where she did you have an Amazonian? Let's get back to the
Evidence go ahead. Give back to the evidence people. They're like look give me something impressive. Okay. You want to see something impressive?
Yeah, yeah ex elses a soteria and you see the salvation again
Right
Right, you came for the salvation law of the people soup of your people, right?
To so sigh don't Christ on and to save your
Christ
All right, and everybody says on the Christian side says we
This is one of the mire prophets talking about the Christ look at the reference to the Christ like there was only one
In the ancient world because you listen to that fairy tale garbage too much
And I'm not talking about the Bible. You need to read the Bible. You're listening to the theology and the narrative of control
Yeah, it's exactly what it is. You're listening to that not what the text is saying give me that text back
Give me that text back. Yeah, so it's come for the salvation of the people of your people and for the
saving of
Your Christ now watch this watch what the Hebrew does with this. This is Habakkuk
313
Right you went forth
Okay, for what for the salvation, right, which is laye saw
Okay, tof is that tof or no tof. I don't think it's tof anymore
And for what where's the other salvation the salvation of your people and the salvation of your?
What
It's salvation again
Do you see something strange?
The same word is repeated twice salvation salvation. Why?
Why would you have to use the same word twice now?
If this is the original which they want you to believe and which all of your English translators are stupid enough to believe
You're gonna have a Greek translation that's gonna put the same word twice. Why is it the Greek version doesn't?
use the same word twice and
I'll tell you why
because Greek after reading it for 35 years
Greek is
elegant
Greek is elegant and
Greek wants to present you with a root concept and then show off
How it can flexibly bend it around and it does that in the Greek
It's very natural to the Greek
It uses a form of the noun and the verb
From which this one concept is derived. They do it all the time. I've got another text of it coming up
So for the Hebrew to have to just say twice
Salvation
They're trying to compensate because of course they're not in their language cannot do cannot take be that flexible
Artistically they only have seven thousand words, bro. There's nothing you can do with seven thousand words
Okay, it's I'm sorry. I'm sorry. You can't throw seven thousand words into a blender and have it end up with a
Banana split. It's not gonna happen. You can't do it. Give me the next one
It was a terrible example. I must be hungry
Give me the next one. Oh
Okay
Here's an example of exactly what I was just talking about right cook close on tests a cook close on me
All right now you don't have to have Greek to understand look at the first word and
You'll see
Cook close. Does everybody see cook loss?
Starting from the beginning good and the next word where you get there you get if you don't start with the epsilon on the front
You start with a cap of you get cook close again, and then something added on the end right on on the end of it
What are they doing here?
They're shifting between the main verb and
A participle that is going to be
Circumstantial in other words, they're setting a stage for you
Now every time they do this the Hebrew misses it
It misses it completely and you're gonna end up with something that is is
Nonsensical ride
They surrounded me. Yes, right? Where's the yes come from by the way because the Greek doesn't get there
That's there's not not even a hint of that in the Greek
Where's it come from? Yeah, let me just make sure let me just make sure that is there a hint nope
No, there isn't
No, not at all
So they just use the same verb twice. Why because of the paucity of
Hebrew words now, I know it's typical for world-renowned Hebrew scholars like
Captain Kip. I know it's popular for them
To not know things like Hebrew has vowels by the way Kip
Look at the vows. They represent them as points, right?
Look at the vows, right? So he was trying to I'm sorry, but he was trying to professionally answer
Why it is that?
Greek has such an advantage why it's so much more expressive and has such a verbal capacity that's so far beyond ancient Hebrew and
He says because ancient
Okay people people okay verifiably
Ridiculous things told to you by experts
right
Let him criticize the kitchen
But they they are not artists I
Would not I wouldn't let once somebody told me something like that
I wouldn't listen I wouldn't listen to another word that they said about anything historically Hebrew
Especially and that's how I recognized it was when he stepped up and started talking about Greek
And you can tell when somebody has been in the field you can tell and what their strength is and again people
It's just the reason that classics has traditionally left the Bible alone for the theologians
Do you think of the Bible was studied
By scientists that you would have same output now, of course you wouldn't of course you wouldn't right?
This is our chance right classicists have those tools. It's just linguistic tools. That's all
Evidence that's all baby. Give me the next one. Give me the next one. What's gonna happen? Look at this
This is another verse. It's another Psalm and
the song says
teach me
The things that are most useful
both Pidea and
noses
Pidea and
noses
Okay, do you hear this? This is right out of the third century
There's no way
That this is not from the third or second even late second century
Give me the next one. How what the Hebrew do it the Hebrew says good judgment
Tove like that like that tov right up front bokeh tov, right good judgment
And what knowledge? Well, what kind of what kind of knowledge is that it's kind of you know, again
You're asking a third grader after explaining to him something from the university. You want to be able to strain through
To know knowledge
Okay, knowledge. It's a little bit general skill truth
Yeah, a little bit sir. It's a little bit general. Let's see what the Greek does
Let's see what the Greek actually does
I want you to notice that when they say Pidea you're talking about something that is hugely central to the ancient world
hugely central that it's the result of Greek language and it is
That education is the education of a child
right
Education of a child look look at that anything taught or learned and aren't or a science
Isn't that nice?
learning education
This isn't just knowledge. Do you know knowledge is the refined kind of you know, just generalized
All I have a hamper, you know
Right, it's not
You know, we don't know all the ingredients. We don't know did you get back in whether he's got extra cheese there, buddy
What's going on? Right?
So but remember if you were to whisper these verses from the Greek into the ear of a third grader
This is the exact equivalent that you get out the Hebrew translation. It's a good thing
they have scholars who don't know that Hebrew even has
has
Vowels, are you serious? Are you serious?
Their scholars don't even know that Hebrews ancient Hebrews restricted to a
7,000 7-8,000 word vocabulary
Right, they reported ten times that there's their greatest minds who read all the books and do everything that they can do
Do you understand why they won't come and talk to me because it's a circus
It's a circus. It's a show and it's disingenuine what I'm giving you here is my kitchen and
My crappy internet
That's what I'm giving you and I'm giving you the texts
I'm showing them to you. It's a whole new world out there. Give it to me. Chewie give the next one
I wanted you to see what the gnosis is to right just so you can kind of reach in yourself and your soul
Nostalgic informant will love this look at I like definition number three
Recognizing right it's from Ginosco, right or Gignos. Let's go and it's really it really is that
Acquiring of knowledge
Notice in the very first definition they give you it has to do with inquiry, right?
investigation
gnosis is
Investigation
Gnosis is investigation now you see how complex that is and you have to start with good
You know basic terms in the Hebrew to kind of filter that down into something you that you know is manageable
Okay, okay, but it's clear people all of this is clear
evidence
Clear evidence that Greek is the primary language. I'm gonna show you let me show you a little term of these little colloquial
Expression they use in Greek
Yeah, he makes his angels
now my top spirits
Right and those who exercise his rights
He makes that poor flag on do you guys remember the flux?
Right flux
Do you remember what that was give me the next one give me the next one?
What is by the way, what did the Hebrew do with that for they used the word fire, okay?
And then another word give me the next one another word. Here's the regular word for fire
That's fine because poor in the Greek is it's the same thing. That's okay. Give me the next one, right?
Like you can imagine a third gray or fire daddy, right? Okay, good and what is the verb that they use la hot?
to flame or to blaze so the flaming fire
Only there's one problem
That's not the Greek
Term that says when you put these two things together watch this
Look at the here's the flocks, right flame fire is an element
Right in similes and metaphor you talk about fiery warriors, etc.
Etc. Right a flash of lightning look at number three and you see it used with
Keraunia and urania. Oh look there. She is there. She is
Right. What is that flocks?
Have you ever?
Seen the flocks of the lightning
Yeah, okay. Have you ever seen the flocks of the lightning? You know where that is?
Remember I told you about the purple lightning before we're gonna find that purple lightning and Jesus's eyes here. It is the
Flocks puros. Give me the next one the flocks puros. So you ready and the eyes of Jesus when he comes back, right?
They are flocks puros
Yeah, do you understand they are flocks puros
He has that burning purple
Yeah, and what's he got on his head?
He has that crown you want to see them all you want to see them all give it to each other give it an extra
You see them all give it to each other
That flocks
Can travel where does it end up here this is from Euripides
It ends up on the remains of
The place where the mother of Dionysus was consumed by the lightning
Yeah
Yeah
It is living
It is living
Did you hear me?
That flocks
Is a living
Fire of lightning and if you reveal the mystery
You reveal the lightning you receive it
Yeah, you receive the lightning
Right, right
Okay, wait, let's keep going because we're gonna see let's okay. You said I want to see people using this together
Okay, pull it up pull it up. Let's watch people
Who are some of the people that used it? Here's a Bronze Age group of people
This is from Pindar now his fourth pithy and Ode and
They're Bronze Age people who are using that flocks see the first second word flog
Right, that's from the flocks and who are these people these are bulls
These are bulls
The Jason was supposed to get past in order to go get the fleece
But they everybody knew that nobody could take these guys
Right, so
What are these guys known for they're known for breathing penelope?
They're known for breathing that burning flocks of fire
Okay, they're known
For breathing it Jesus has it in his eyes
And they are known for breathing it
Yeah, you wonder you wonder you know what they called these bulls
Um the people from whose culture they came
Talked about their ancestors being the fang of the viper
The dragon's tooth
That's how they were born
Do you know there's a first and a second birth?
There's a first and a second death
Yeah, yeah
From the serpent came the knowledge to open your eyes
Fantastic if you're a christian and you haven't been involved in drug rights, don't worry
None of this applies to you christianity is not what you thought it was
Enjoy your celebration for whatever ice cream you can get out of it. Give me the next one
Um, what happens? Okay, here's paul. I want to just bring you to paul, right? This is all new
All new watch this what happens
Paul's put in his hands
On people remember how jesus said you put your hands on people. It's a part of the it's part of the friggin right
Right, you're gonna put your hands. You're gonna lift up snakes. You're gonna drink poisonous drugs
And or you didn't say drink. Yeah, it does say drink. You're gonna drink poisonous drugs and then he says
You're going to be unhurt
From the drugs and you're gonna put your hands on people
Do you want to see people putting on hands the fairytale putting on hands is jesus looking like a 60s hippie
Stand right totally white guy too like as white as he can possibly be
Right blonde hair. He's kind of blonde hair and he's standing. You know what pictures i'm talking about
And he's standing next to that kid and the kid's all happy looking at him
You know and jesus has his hand out over the kid. Huh, he's putting his hands on
You can see some little light radiated from jesus's hand like he's doing something
He's putting some kind of energy in him or something. I don't know to give him some he's blessing him
He's blessing him, right? Well, that's not reality
You would you like to see and know
What reality was of the putting on the hands go ahead go ahead. What's this say?
So paul's putting his hands on people and why is he doing it?
Because he's transmitting to them the panel mahogany on the holy spirit
Okay, the holy spirit and you say i know holy spirit father son and holy ghost
Right
Okay, no
He's giving them
His hands
And what happens after he starts getting handsy with them?
They start talking
In dead languages
They start talking and things that you should not none of us can decipher
right
They should be prophesying
Okay, and that's exactly what they're doing. Look, that's exactly what they're doing
They're using those mystery tongues. They're using those mystery tongues. Did you think it was
Seriously, did you really think it was that?
That kind of stuff is circus, man. You got to get over it. Your theology is crap
Right, all of it. I'm not saying your theology. I'm saying all theology is crap
Here are the texts and what they're saying. Let's just continue on
So and what kind of men are these they happen to be?
12 dudes
And now you got to ask yourself you got to say wait a minute. Jesus is with 12 teenage kids
One of whom is sitting on his lap. They never show that dude in the last supper. They all look like they're 40
How about the one sitting on his lap that comes up to his mid chest?
right
He's sitting there with his 12. Why do you think these magi are always getting the 12
Apostles, why do you think they're always doing that?
Boom god was creating a great work through the hands of paul
Paul's hands
Are causing these people to enter into ecstasy
To be able to communicate with the angeloid
Okay
I see him. I see him right. They see him when they see him. Peter saw him. There's two dudes there with him
Both dad do
Ghosts right there, right and what does he what does he do god works with the hands of paul?
But wait here watch it happen watch it happens. What happens?
He put his hands right on him, but he also gave him his sudaria
His sudaria. What is that? It's a napkin or a handkerchief
Some kind of cloth that you wipe your face with and your armpits
When you're sweaty when you're out in the sun
You should wipe that stuff off paul gave them that
The people who were sick and he gave them his
Oh my god, what it sounds bad. What is that?
it's a
girdle
And if you don't understand what I mean by girdle if you are out
Walking around and you take off all your clothes and you dance around
It's going to become apparent
But you need girdling
girdling
Do you mean that was the wrap of his testicles and penis?
And he was giving that to people to lick
Are you kidding me? Yeah, but there's more there's more watch this
Jesus does the same thing. I'm about to show you. You're gonna you're gonna be shocked. Give it to me. Give it to me. Look, he's back, right?
So here's jesus
And there's a dude
Who's been in a tomb
There's a dude in a tomb once again
And this dude is bound by his hands and his feet. I mean, there's some funny stuff going on here, right?
Dude laying in the tomb and he gets up and he walks out, right?
He walks out, but when he walks out of the tomb and everybody's like, oh man
What has he got? He's got a sotario
covering
his eyes
Covering his eyes. Why?
Why are you gonna have this?
What are they doing?
Because wiping that skin. It's the same reason that jesus made that old woman high from just touching him
Right just touching his clothing
right the magus is a
Drug user extraordinary
Paul is so good at drugs. He's immune to viper venom
Right and jesus is telling him all oh all these poisons. Don't worry. They aren't gonna hurt you
Right. He's a drug man. What does the guy get up out of the tomb and come to do from the bible?
He's got that covering over his face the same thing paul is giving people
As paul is laying on hands
Yeah
Do you know what the cure is?
For your demon. Do you know what the cure is?
Yeah
It's in paul's nutswet
It's in paul's nutswet
Yeah, I don't know. I don't know. It is the apostle paul after all
Right, right. I don't know. Maybe
Maybe, you know, if it was like
collected earlier
I think my faith would only take me so far with paul's testicular sweat
But remember people so when paul is with his
his
people
is 12
when he's with them and they're passing around the
The
Taint juice, you know, whatever that is the the by the way the crusaders. I say that with all seriousness the crusaders
Had initiates lick new newbies
Had them lick that tank because that's where the purple cross was
In their girdings
Okay, so this is a very practical thing that i'm talking about. I'm just talking about drug transmission. That's all
All right. Remember ristos
is
druged
That's what it means
God fantastic and not just with any drug but with ones that cause you to go nuts. Give me the next one
We're going to go nuts here at these last sources. Are you ready?
Um, okay. Now who else is doing it? You think, okay, right like every
Jew in the room there's religious Jew, right? Not secular Jew, right?
What a religious Jew at monist Jew every monist Jew is going to say
Aha, look at the pagans and the dirty stuff they're doing now you be quiet
because
We've got your magic writings that talk about
Homosexual love affairs
specifically between men and how
Jehovah
sponsors that
What are the and here? What are the what's going on here? Look this?
What do you think the seven sons of the high priest skewa?
This is his name. What do you think the seven sons of that high priest?
He's the jewish high priest, right?
See the word you die you
What do you think they're doing?
remember
Her fingers are purple mary's fingers are purple. What do you think they're doing?
They're doing the same thing with the drugs and they try it with a dude and he gets mad and this is what he says to him watch this
It's like a it's a terrible
It's it's like a sad incident. He's um, he says look
Oh, it's coming through by the way the bible author whoever wrote this probably luke
But whoever wrote this the author who put this here
Says, you know, um, this guy happened to have a plenum aponeer on
a spirit
That was harmful
Okay, so if you don't understand that within the cult know all the casting out of demons
Right, you can meet someone and you can figure out what their demons are and with the right drugs
You can cast them out may require some some christing and it may require
um sexual
Congress of some sort or another
And what happens this dude has an evil spirit. He says he's got this evil spirit
And what does the evil spirits say it says?
I know
Right. I'm aware of jesus
Right. I'm aware of what jesus
You know, what his act was right and I have personal
experience
I have an understanding of paul
Right, I know what he's but you seven
This is something else like we don't know what happened. They went into a house
And you and I are gonna now watch what happens from the outside house
But the seven sons of the high priest take this one dude into a house and he says look
I know how jesus does this and I've seen how paul does this you guys are not doing it the same way
And what happens you and I sit outside the house
We hear a commotion from the inside as the dude
Jumps on him and it uses the same word for jumping there that a predatory snake
Uses the for for grabbing and holding on with its fangs
So what does he do this dude jumps on him both?
Right with his bad spirit and he overpowers them
Right, he overpowers them and you and I sitting outside and watching
Watch them all run out and they are naked
Do you know why they are naked?
Because you end up naked when you have your eyes opened
Yeah, it's the mystery
Yeah, and and uh, they're running out of his house and it says they're also beating up
So
Can you see how the cult works? Can you see how the cult works?
Do you understand now why jesus is able to calm down?
People who are in tombs raving and mad. Do you understand why because that's part of the freaking cult?
Right paul's doing the same thing
It's not miraculous
Right you were it's not even intended to be miraculous. Oh, it's not
It's the reality that you can't read because you don't read the language
Right good. That's why that's why domin you we're trying to get people trained
So they can read it and last but not least
And then we're gonna go I just have a couple hymns to finish off
What happened right after this with paul so you and I are sitting in this village and we
See these seven sons of the high priest the jewish high priest go into this house with this dude next thing you know
We hear all this commotion and they're running out nude and beaten up
Right um, what is the community response to this incident?
It's here in axe 1919
People came together
Took their magic books and burned them
It was so much the cost the value it says they estimated the value of the books
To be around muriadas pente
A myriad is 10 000 coin
Right so five of those so 50 000 coin worth
Of magic books
Now i'm going to tell you something you have been told for years by biblical scholars
By scholars of biblical theology
You've been told
That only the very few people read in antiquity
Oh these this is a land a fairy tale land where nobody reads. It's only the extremely rich
It's only the extremely rich dude in this one location. This is asia minor in this one location
They've got more than 50 000 bucks
Worth of magic scrolls. You know what that says says people are reading a lot more people than you think are reading
And it turns out that's true
Look at the libraries that we find
The romans are complaining the giant public library those christians. They burned it down
It was their public library
God
They're burning them down all over rome. There's not just one library in rome. This was the big famous one on the palatine hill
That's what monism does get rid of the evidence so that you can rewrite history
But we're not going to let that happen
We're going to show it to you now for what it is now everything tonight was brought to you by
uranium
Because urania is that mystery power
She is that mystery power
I'm going to give you three. It's kind of a riddle, but I'm going to give you three
forms of that uranian power
Via ancient cult song. Are you ready for this because I wouldn't make this stuff up, right?
I can't I have to always go from the text. That's what the devil said anyway
Go hit me with the next one. Why does he say hail satan? I'll tell you what
Um hipta. Look at this. Here's a goddess you've never heard of I guarantee I guarantee maybe one or two nerds
Hipta, who is she? I call upon hipta the nurse of bacchus the elwatic girl
The elwatic girl. What is that? Do you know what who elwa was?
She was the one who was taken from the side of adamantas
Right. She was the one taken from adam
Right. She is that bacchic crier. And what does she do? She leads the mystic rites have
This is well, okay. I kind of want to go now, right? What does she rejoice in? She rejoices in sabu
Hagnu
She rejoices in holy saba. Do you know who invoked holy saba with the last breath that he had?
Jesus christ did jesus christ did
Sabak thon
All right, he did exactly what somebody who was in the cult would do and remember jesus christ in the first century
Is technically since judaism only goes back to the third
Jesus christ is technically i mean the monest judaism not the jewish people
Right, not the ethnic group. I'm talking about the monism that is judaism
That thing only goes back to the third century. So it's technically jesus is a founder of judaism. Isn't that odd?
No, it's not odd that somebody who's gonna cause a contention or
You know take over the territory from the holy priesthood
Right, it's just because he could do it better than the priest could
Right, remember the magi those drug headed drug dealers
Right, they're the ones who brought the whole hey, here's the drugs and the money
Bruh, right so jesus could do it better. He got his education down in egypt
the people in
Jerusalem involved with the temple they were sending their people out
Down there to learn greek jesus had to go down and do that
Right
So it's no wonder that they're all the rabbis are all saying dude. This guy is brilliant
Right and not only that he can put you into a state
Right, he can put you into a state. Give me the next one. Give me the next one
That's hipta and i want to go now. Yes. She's the chthonian mother. Don't you love that?
Chthonian saba. Love it. Give me the next one and here is aphrodite
I just want you to take note of a couple of things here a couple of expressions that I want you to see the very first word
Right, who is this smile loving aphrodite? She loves the nighttime, baby
She loves that yoking. You know what she is. She's the mother of necessity. What?
Necessity compulsion the reason that you're here
You got blanked into existence. I got blanked into existence. You got blanked into existence. Chewie
Right
We all got blanked into existence
How do you think we got here? We got here by aphrodite. Doesn't it make sense that we would return to her
As the muse, you know, they called her the muse, right?
Who is it? Who's with who the jews worship again before they worship jahu?
The misogynist god they worshiped aphrodite
You're kidding me
Who did they they did it through bachas the worship of bachas? Yes, because you can't have aphrodite without bachas
They go hand in hand. Thank you. Plutarch now for the jewish ethnic community
Who can who wants to see their origins? Imagine you're cretin ancestors
Right before they had immigrated to the levant
Imagine you're cretin ancestors worshiping this divine pair
aphrodite and bachas
aphrodite and bachas
Isn't that something?
You thought adonis was some crusty
Crusty desert god. No, no, he's not
He's not he's the lover
He's the lover of
urania
Isn't that nice the lover of urania? That's the culture that you come from
now on the
muslim side
You come from the bachic adherents
Of a rite that was perpetuated that made it all the way
To arabia what we call what they called arabia
And that's where you come from. That's why you've got that big stone
Right. Um, that's why that your original devotions were to that goddess
Of intercourse. I know things have changed. I know things have changed
But that's how it started out and it seemed to be because at the time they didn't have jihads the followers
Of aphrodite he'd never had jihads on anyone
It's a it's a phenomenon of polytheism right if you think about it. What is a jihad?
Right that action is against it's exclusive of one core monist group
Right, you've got to perform that action against those who are on the outside of the fence
Right put your burqa on
Right, um, you're in the fence
everybody else
Terrible idolaters call them ever what's it whatever you want
Right, but those polytheists were your ancestors. Give me the next one. Um, I wanted to go give me the next one. Go ahead
I wanted to show you here at the top
I just want you to see that this is aphrodite who was called lukhaina the end of the first line lukhaina
Um lukhaina is like a drachaina
The drachaina is that priestess of the dragon and the lukhaina is the priestess of the wolf
Of the wolf and what is this wolf priestess used? Look at the fourth line down last three words
You know that field throne is a drug
Right, it's a concoction
All right a filter you can call it and they're usually sexual that one's called erotomania
drug
The one that causes you to enter into erotic mania now. I want to say this and I know I know
Neil is waiting in the wings
So I'm going to finish up here, but I want to say this
The erotic mania if you have never in your life
entered into erotic mania
I'm sorry that you haven't had that religious experience
I'm sorry
But
They made that religious experience
the centrality
of their salvation
Coming to grips
with that
climax
is
part
of the death process
and rebirth
Yeah, if you think about it, it sort of makes sense
It sort of makes sense. We don't send a person to the moon
We put them into a state
Where they can go beyond death and be brought back on a tether and when they come back
They're full of that knowledge
Full of that knowledge and if we guide them properly we can tell them when you see this do this do this
Right from our people who've already been going back and forth and who are the people who go back on forth on a regular basis
the oracles
What do you think they always know the future because when you're detached according to their physics when you're detached from this
existence that is material
You become aware. I don't know why they said this, but you become aware
of all time
Right, it's like ghosts in the underworld
somehow know
Are watching us they get some absorbed
you know
vision
Right, and that's why your ancestors either hate you or love you
Right, you you you didn't realize it, but you're living this specifically for their benefit
Right, it's weird. It's a strange way to look at the world. I think it's quite noble though. I think it's quite noble
Um, and I think it bears, you know, we need to look at it give me the next one and we're done
And I want to give you one more
one more
Him here. I want you to see this is melenaway and I want you to see that she is that cthonia nymph
Who wears that hecatic?
gown
Hecatic gown this is we're on the witch side now. You didn't know aphrodite. It was actually a witch. Did you you didn't know aphrodite?
It was actually a witch. What does this one do?
What does melenaway do?
She my name is natus and this is the perfect way to end because that means
She causes people
to enter insanity
and if you look at the very if you look at the
Second to last line the third word in oistron. What do we want from her?
We want oyster
Right. This is the same cult person that you and I have been looking at that we call medea
This is the same cult person. She has to be performing that right
Right. She has to be she is the source. It's her body and blood
That is the source of our salvation
Right. That's how we manage these jumps to death and back
Right. Now we can do this in tombs
We can do it with the right drugs. We can do it with people walking around. Oh god. There's another one revive that one, right?
This is the world that produced
Christianity if this
Modern age is to produce another christianity. It will not
Come out of any churches
It'll come out of movements mass movements of people
Who enter into altered states?
Thank you
For coming tonight. I'm going to now bring on
Gnostic. Gnostic, um, please tell everybody how you've been doing what projects you're doing
And then I'm gonna shut up and put plug you in totally and let you be the uh the circus master for
As much time as you need because you know people love it. So, um, tell us about what you're doing and then go for it
Oh, man, I got a couple projects working on and uh, and uh, that i'm putting out pretty soon
I've been real busy doing a lot of bunch of stuff doing all types of
Projects working on and collaborations and stuff like that. Um, I do want to I so you said a lot there that I want to
Complement I got some sources
First of all, I have a source from heratis now real quick before you before you bring up my screen
I just want to say something real quick
there's a story about pythagoras
And his life is pretty fascinating
You know, he grew up in ionia
he travels to athens and he
becomes part of this
old pre-socratic academy whatever it is pre played a platonic academy and, um
He travels to egypt and learns the mysteries of the egyptians
He travels the babelon learns the trip is the bed and then when he comes back he sets up a school in croton, italy
Which is magnagracia at the time greater greater greece they call it
Greeks were inhabiting most of italy at that time latin's are just a little tiny little baby at that time
They don't
They're not ruling shit
But the greeks are spreading, you know
So everyone thinks of helanism as like this post 330 ad rpc
Phenomenon it's like once you actually read in the history helanism starts spreading
Centuries before alexander. It's taken over the world just culturally
So pythagoras goes to croton italy
And he sets up a school there
And the school the first thing he says to the people out there is the first thing we're going to build is a temple to the muses
So he builds the first thing they build is a giant
beautiful temple with probably corinthian or ionic columns doric columns, whatever
Beautiful temple to the nine muses
Which is what I want to focus on because people always ask me
Neil you want to tear down the abrahabic religions. What are you going to replace it with?
And it's very simple
It's the religion of the moot of the mousse. That's it. It's the religion of inspiration
It's the religion of art. It's the religion of poetry. It's the religion of theater. It's a religion of
divine madness that anybody can attain that you don't need to go through a
priesthood of elders
To get to anybody can get to it
all right
So we're going to touch on that but first of all pull up my uh source that I have here
This is I just pulled this up because in 450 bce
Herodotus goes on and travels the world
Sort of like Pythagoras did
But he was inspired by cleo
The muse of history. He's the first historian. They call him the father of history. So he travels to the egypt
He travels to he travels to the sythians. He meets with the sythians and talks about their learns about their history
He learns about indian history. He learns about Babylonian history. He learns about persian history the media median history
Uh, what else he learns about anatolian history. He learns about
You know libyan history. He's talking about, you know, he's talking to the elders in libya. He's talking to
Phoenicians about their history
He's learning about all these histories
And then he goes to this little area that we call Sinai
He doesn't mention israel or jerusalem or jews or is or
Judaism, but he does say something that I think
it
I think we can tie to
judaians
he says
They deemed none other to be gods except for Dionysus
And heavenly aphrodite. That's uranian aphrodite aphrodite uranos
It's titled this video
And they say that the cropping of the hair is like the cropping of the hair of Dionysus
Cutting it around the head shaving the temples. They call Dionysus oral taut and aphrodite
a la lot
all right
Interesting. They only have two gods of the honor. It's aphrodite
Dionysus. Now, why did he do that? He's doing some greco interpretatio here
He's saying that he's looking at these rites and he's comparing them and he's saying
There's definitely a Dionysus an aphrodite cult set up here in this desert
so
I'm going to compare that to what we got in the chaldean oracles where
They say the Dionysus or Bacchus
Was called by the chaldeans yaho
We know we always always bring this verse up. This is just
Relative to what i'm talking about in the Phoenician tongue. He is frequently called sabaoth
Who is above the tet seven poles the demi urgus?
And then we find in the oldest manuscripts that we have
Of the of the greek septuagint the name yaho is present
All right, I got some store some sources that I want to run through that have that I related to this
the first one I got
Is
About Dionysus and apollo and the muses and where do they come from?
so
Let me find my source real quick. Here it is
Um actually that's not it
It's
This one
We're gonna do with it
Okay, hold on one second. Let me pull this up
Chewy wants me to take some heat off you while you do that
Um, I'll make notes by the way for people
I'll just say this quick for people who are taking the greek whether it's an ominous
or um
In my studio
The class
lab is on saturday
And full steam ahead for those of you want to go in and say hey, can we talk about
This sentence from chapter two or chapter one whatever whatever you have to be to move for what? Oh, it's sorry
Unit two or unit one. Sorry about that. Um, so yeah, please feel free to attend
And we've got that um link
Chewy says
Uh, we'll put up that link. So did that give you enough time there and oh, yeah, I got it. I'm ready to go
Thank you
So before I even touch on this, I want to say something about the last source that I had there is that um
During the time that Herodotus is traveling the world in 450. Remember what's going on at that time
There is no torii yet
Nobody knows about Judaism yet doesn't exist yet. It's just not there
Simply the gods that are the main gods and this is this is actually the reason why I thought I think that source is relevant
because the main gods that are worshiped in Jerusalem at that time is
Asherah and Yahweh
They're ahead of the pantheon and they were side by side at that time period even as late as 450 bce
You would go there and they would have coins minted of
Athena
They would have coins minted with Zeus on them. There was just part of the Mediterranean world like everyone else
That's why Herodotus just went there and thought this is business as usual nothing nothing
Nothing to see here. Nothing crazy out of the ordinary. It's regular Mediterranean life happening in Judea
Which is fascinating
Now I think who is this Dionysus? That's the question. Who is this eastern Dionysus?
I think it's Osiris
And I I'm gonna I'm gonna get into that right now
All right, this source right here
I'm gonna share I'm gonna make this a little bit bigger so people can see it and read it
He said this is from Diodorus of Sicily
He says Osiris by the way the the old pronunciation is yo
Yo Cyrus
Yo the yo he va fe
Osiris and that relates to yahoo too that we find in Crete. So there's this older ancient yahoo presence
Going on the eastern Mediterranean
Over in Crete Egypt Judea. That's my that's what I think right now. Let's keep going
Osiris was the first they record to make mankind give up cannibalism
For after Isis had discovered the fruit of both wheat and barley
Which grew wild over the land along other plants, which was still unknown to mankind
So basically we got this god Osiris and Isis
And they're taking humanity out of the stone age and civilizing them. That's what's going on here
so we got
The some cities during the festival of Isis as well as stocks of wheat by the way think about what he's doing here
Demeter
Demeter and Osiris are being equated with each other
The Demeter and Isis I mean and then Osiris and Dionysus. So as you got the festival of Isis
Stocks of wheat and barley carried among the objects in procession
The memorial of what the goddess ingeniously discovered in the beginning Isis establishes laws
in accordance with people regularly
and uh
For this reason the early greeks great demeter
You see how he just switches up from Isis Demeter just quickly. Boom. That's what that's diodes for you
You got to be you got to be paying attention what he's talking about. He does this with Dionysus and Osiris as well
For this reason the early greeks gave Demeter the name thasmaphorus
Which means law bringer law bearer. By the way, thasmaphoria
in uh in greece and Athens was celebrated in the same week as the
Judeans later on celebrate the so-called festival
And plenty of the elder geniously points this out in his moralia where he's worked
Comparing Dionysus to Yahweh
And they have a festival in the same week
They do this they do very similar things they carry palm trees and and uh myrtle into the temple
And I think there's something going on there and I think he's right
He said Osiris they say founded the egyptian thivian city with 100 gates with the men of this day after his mother
The later generations called it deos deospolis
And it says right here
Osiris they add built a temple to his parents Zeus and Hera
Which was famous for its size and its costiness in general and two golden chapels to Zeus
The larger one to him as god of heaven
The smaller one to him as former king and father of the egyptians in the role as he is called by some
Amon
He also made golden chapels for the rest of the gods mentioned above
Allotting honors to each of them and appointing priests to have charge over these
Special esteem at the court of osiris and isis was also accorded to these
Which should invent any of the arts or device of any useful process
Here's where here's where we get into the muses ready. I'm getting there
Osiris they say was also interested in agriculture and was reared in nisa
a city of arabia, huh
phoenix near egypt
being a son of Zeus
And the name which he bears among the greeks is derived from both his father
And from his birthplace and he is called Dionysus
Manchin is also made of nisa and by the poets and by the poet in his hymns. He's talking about Homer
To the effect of this vicinity of egypt. So this is old homeric
From the 8th century bc. He says there is a certain nisa
mountain high with forest thick and finicia afar
close to egypt's streams
And the discovery of the vine they say was made by him near nisa
And that by having further despite devised the proper treatment of its fruit
He was the first to drink wine and taught mankind at the larger
Uh culture of the vine blah blah blah by the way the word for wine in hebrew is yagyan
And uh that comes from the it comes from the greek wynos wynos
So there's obviously some sort of borrowing happening
Um, even the oldest cities that yaoi was worshiped in the the minianites other
The minianites are or most scholars would say
Yaoi gets borrowed from because it remember in the north the ugaritic texts. There's no yaoi
Just el and bel and ashura
And then down in the south in these minianite cities you get yaoi
and then the archaeology says that
Minianite cities are using
Uh agene pottery
So they're culturally connected with the agene
Something to think about
This is my this is sort of my theory that i'm building here
So here we go
Here's where we get to the muses
Osiris established the affairs of egypt and turned the supreme power over to his wife isis
And they say that he placed hermes at her side
As counselor because of his prudence raised him above the king's other friends and in general of all the land
And sway he left hercules
Who was both his kinsmen and renowned for his baler and physical strength
While as governors he appointed busurus over these parts of egypt which lie toward finicia
And it was apollo they say who discovered the laurel
A garland of which all men place about the head of his god above all others
The discovery of ivy is also attributed to osiris by the egyptians and made sacred to this god
Just as the greeks do in dianisis
And in the egyptian language
They say that ivy is called the plant of osiris
And for purposes dedication is preferred to the vine
Since the ladder sheds its leaves while the former forever remains green
The same rule more more over
An ancients have followed in the case of other plants also which are perennially green
ascribing for instance the myrtle of aphrodite
And the laurel to apollo this is very important for the religion of the muse
You got to know these
That the myrtle is dedicated to aphrodite when people get married they wear myrtle. That's the symbol of love
Dionysus is the vine
The symbol of madness divine inspiration of the madness that we get from the vine
Apollo wears the laurel
the symbol of
triumph glory
And and uh when there's a triumph the seizures would wear laurel
They're following this ancient ritual
Osiris was accompanied on his campaign as the egyptian account goes by his two sons anubis and mastodon
Who were distinguished in their valour both of them carried most notable
Accortuments of war taken from certain animals whose character was not unlike the boldness of men
Anubis wearing a dog skin and mastodon the four parts of a wolf
And for this reason these animals are held in honor of the egyptians
He also took pan along on his campaign who is held in special honor by the egyptians for the inhabitants of the land
That only set up statues of him at every temple, but have also named a city after him in thebid called after the natives
come no
Which has translated mean city of pan
Talking about canubis there. That's kind of crazy in his company
There were also who were experienced in agriculture such as marion the cultivation of the vine and tryptolomus
And the sewing of the grain and every step apart of it
And he says uh, this is where this is where the muses comes in
While they were in ethiopia their account continues the satyr people were brought to him
Who they say have hair upon their loins?
For osiris was laughter loving
Now remember last time I was here we talked about the
Byzantine law codes that banned laughter
if you were a
agricultural vine
Vineyard worker who worked in vineyards
It was actually forbidden for you to laugh while you were producing the while you were
Cultivating the vine and producing wine because that would mean that you were
Following the rights of the ancient dianesean religion
Isn't that crazy? So this is actually very important
laughter loving god fond of music and dance
Consequently, he took with him a multitude of musicians among whom were nine maidens
Who could sing and were trained in other arts?
These maidens being those among the greeks were called the muses and their leader
Musa getis as the count goes was apollo
Who was for that reason also given the name musa getis?
As for the satyrs
They were taken along in the campaign because they were proficient in dancing and singing and every kind of relaxation of pastime
For osiris was not warlike nor did he have to organize pitch battles or engagements
Since every people received him as god because of his benefactions
now this is where
This is where I wanted to um
I wanted to take a step back from this screen right now and pull up who these nine muses actually are
So I got my other screen ready to go
It is over here
Won't take me long at all
Here it is
So we got the nine muses ready to go
Who are they?
member there's nine of them
three of them
are
inspired by Dionysus
madness
Three of them are inspired by aphrodite
love
Three of them are inspired by apollo
The leader of the muses right so you have different kinds of inspiration
People are inspired by love
People are inspired by madness and people are inspired by randomness from the gods themselves
So you have caliope
She's the goddess of epic poetry
right
Cleo if we talked about it already
The muse of history and lyre playing
Polyhymnia
The goddess of hymns that means many hymns in greek polyhymnia
El terpe
The lyric poetry muse
Terpe scori the muse of dancing and chorus
Herato the muse of erotic and lyric poetry
Melpomene the tragedy and chorus muse
Thalia the muse of comedy
Urena the the muse of astronomy
right
And then there you have apollo
standing amongst the nine muses
and so
We have a really interesting passage that i want to read real quick
And so i'm almost getting towards the end of it. This is gonna you're gonna like this where socrates
And um, you know, I we talk about play-doh. We talk shit about play-doh a lot as his monism sort of corrupted the world. I think
but
He did have a muse
He and there are some there are some dialogues by play-doh that are very important, especially the one that i'm about to read right now
This is from phaedrus
and so
Let me pull up my
screen again
So, okay, this is from phaedrus from 244 phaedrus
He says
This former discourse was by phaedrus the son of pithocles
Of mirrorness, but which I shall speak of
Cicorus son of euthymus
Man of speech. All right, and I this is now this is socrates speaking
This is one of the few
Dialogues about socrates that I actually think he said something similar to this
So remember play-doh is writing this down after socrates is dead and he's looking he's thinking back of the past
He's writing these dialogues. What would socrates have said about this here. I'm gonna write this down
I think he's I think play-doh was spot on here
I think this is one of the few dialogues that played socrates might have said something like this
So let's let's read what it says
And I must say this thing saying is not true
which teaches
When a lover is at hand the non-lover should be more favored because the lover is insane
And the other is sane
For it would be a simple fact that insanity is an evil
The saying would be true
But in reality the greatest of blessings
Come to us through madness
What?
This is the this is the religion that I want to bring back right here
I'm serious when it was sent as a gift of the gods
For the prophetess at delphi
Now remember what is delphi delphi is where the ancient oracle was the most famous
Famous oracle of the ancient world people would travel off all the way from india to go visit the oracle
And they would get the oracles about the future
and at delphi is the
Dedicated a shrine to the nine muses of course
Apollo was on the top of the mountain
And on the bottom of the mountain guess what you had there you had a tomb
A tomb of the burial of Dionysus
Wait, why is Dionysus in a tomb because Dionysus is is the god of resurrection and death
You know Apollo stands on top of the mountain because he's the heavenly. He's the heavenly son of god
All right, and Aphrodite is the goddess is the is the as the third of the triad
She brings the love. All right. So what what happens here?
The priestess at didona
It's one of the ancient seven wonders of the world where the
Zeus I'm not kidding. It's called the plastic Zeus was set up and they don't even know how old it was
It goes back to like who knows it was just it's just there one history starts getting written
Dodona's there already. We don't know when didona was built. It's the oldest oracle of Zeus that exists
When they have been made conferred by many splendid benefits upon Greece both in private and public affairs
But few or none when they have been in their right minds and if we should speak of the Sibyl
And all others who are
Who by prophetic inspiration?
Have foretold many things to many persons and thereby made them fortunate afterwards
Anyone can see that we should speak a long time
And it is worthwhile to induce also the fact that those men of old who invented names
Thought that madness was neither shameful nor disgraceful
Otherwise they would not have connected the very word mania with the noblest of arts
Which felt which foretells the future by calling it manic art
No, they gave this name thinking mania
Which it comes by the gift of the gods is a noble thing
But nowadays people call prophecy the mantic art
tastelessly inserting the t in the word
so also
When they give a name to the investigation of the future which rational persons conduct through observation of birds
and but that's um
That's the uh roman art of uh
Oh augury and by other signs they furnished the mind noose
And information historia to human thought oasis from intellect dianoya they call it
Oy noistike art
Which modern folk now call oin oin oistik making it more high sounding by introducing the long o
Notice how they pay so much attention to the vowels and the way words are spelled
It's this is crazy how crazy this they take this so seriously if i love it
The ancients then testify that in proportion is prophecy
Manticay is superior to augury
Both in name and in fact in the same proportion madness
Which comes from god is superior to sanity
What
Wow
This is mind blowing which is of human origin
Moreover when diseases and the greatest troubles have been visited upon certain families through some ancient guilt
madness
Has entered
In and by irracular power has found a way of release
for those in need
Taking refuge in prayers and the service of the gods and so by purifications and sacred rites
He who has this madness is made safe
For the present and after time for him who is rightly possessed
Of madness a release from present
Ills is found and a third kind of possession
Madness comes from the muses
So we got dianese in madness
Apollonian madness now a third kind of madness from the muses
This takes hold upon a gentle and pure soul
Arouses it and inspires it to songs and other poetry
And thus by adorning countless deeds of the ancient edge of the ancients educates later generations
But he without the divine madness comes to the doors of the muses
Confident that will he will be a good poet by art meets with no success and the poetry of some man vanishes into nothingness
Before that of inspiring
I got
One more thing I want to look at
And um
All right, so yeah, he's basically explaining here. I don't have to I can go to the next one. He's basically explaining here
that um, you have different kinds of madness different kinds of divine inspiration
and uh
You get matt you get the the nine muses that can be either sent by aphrodite, which is love
Dian Isis, which is the mania and apollonian inspiration of the song
So so so it's sent for three things
now
last thing I want to show
Is um
There's a passage from plutar about dian Isis and and um
And osiris if you want to pull this up. I have it ready to go
So he says he says this is fascinating stuff. Now. We're talking. Herodotus was writing in 450. This is
500 years later
And plutar comes along and this is what he has to say
Osiris is identical with osut with dian Isis
Who could be more fitting to know than yourself clea?
For you are the head of the inspired maidens of delphi
Huh and had been consecrated by your father and mother and the holy rites of osiris
What is going on?
If however for the benefit of others is needful to induce proofs of this identity
Let us have undisturbed what may not be told but in the public ceremonies
Which the priests perform
And the burial of apis that's the bowl. This is very important for the mysteries
The bowl is slain
And the bowl is buried and they mourn
It's agricultural, but it's also it has it's also spiritual
And when they convey his body on improvised beer
Do not in any way come sort of a bachic procession
For they fasten skins of fawns about themselves and carry bachic wands and indulge in shouting and movements
Exactly as those do who are under the spell of dianesiac ecstasies
For the same reason many of the greeks make statues of dian Isis in the form of a bowl
And the women at ellis invoke him
Praying that the god may come with the hoof of a bowl
And the epithet applied to dian Isis among the argives is son of a bowl
They call upon him by the water of the sound of trumpets
Out of the water they call upon him out of the water
So out of this baptism. They had the sound of the voice of god
It was that reminds you of
At the same time casting into the depths a lamb
You that's not a that's not a mistype. I'm not typo a lamb
As an offering to the keeper of the gate
The trumpets they conceal in bachic wands as saccari socrates has stated
In his treatise the holy wands
Now you're probably wondering
What the hell is this treatise that socrates wrote when we lost it?
But we do know what it's called
the word
oceon
The holy ones that socrates wrote is the word oceon, huh?
Oceon, what is that word? I thought I thought the word for holy is
Either seba saba or hero or
Um hageo those of the greek has the nine words for everything everything
This is just one of the few words one of the many words for holy ones
But let's see what ellis has to say about this. This is very important
Let me pull up my screen
And let's go to this oceos
Ready for this. This is crazy
So socrates wrote a text called on the holy ones called on the oceon
That's where the word osiris comes from
So yes, the word osiris does have connections to greek
Believe it or not as ancient as osiris is so is greek
This is one of those one of those weird things that make you think how old is greek
So what does this word mean? It means hollow divine law or to make holy
ready for this
Let's see what the lsj says hollowed sanctioned or allowed by the law of gods of nature dk
Sanctioned by divine law
What you tell me osiris's name is is is greek and it means to be sanctioned by divine law
What it says here
Look at this permitted or not forbidden by divine law
Of persons pious devout religious
Oceos
All right
Check this out, right?
so the bowl
the bowl
This is represented by Dionysus and apis
is
The bowl that is slain
Now if you know if you know anything about the mysteries of addis
They washed their initiates in the blood of a of a blood of a bowl
Just like christ just like when you're initiated in christ in the bible. It says washed. I think it's first john
First john is the as the chapter where it says that you are washed in the blood of the lamb
Your initiates and christianity are washed in the blood of the lamb
so um
Look at this
So if you ask you look really closely in this
It's very hard to see it
but right
Right here. I can see it right now. You might not be able to see it
But if you can look this up if you want check fact check me right here. It actually says sabazio
S e b e s i o there's the s right there. There's the e right there. There's the b
There's the e there's the s there's the i there's the o it's very hard to see
But if you look it up, it's france kumail was the first one to spot this out
Sabazio is the name of dianisus sabah sabazius. It also means holy
Sabah means holy
So osiris down in egypt means holy
Sabazius up in frigia means holy. It's the same exact. It's they're literally translations of each other
They're both vine gods
they're both gods of the the right of the vine of the uh of ivy they both wear ivy
They both die and resurrect and they're both both both of them are represented by a bull
Whether it's the apis bull or this turk toros
And they're their blood washes new initiates. You're saved by the blood of the bull
Right
Look at this
All right, um, I don't know why it's taking so long from this for this thing to load. Oh, here it is. Okay
Ready for this
Revelation
714 sir thou knowest these are them that came out of a great tribulation
And have washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the lamb
That's mystery religion language guys
They're taking the lamb
from the bull
The bull represents virility and strength and power the lamb's meekness
So they're flipping the mystery into a different
This is what they want their their followers to be meek. This is what they want to this is how they want to run their civilization into this
This is what the mystic priests are doing
It's actually kind of fascinating if you think about it
All right, lastly, I want to show one more thing from luchin
I love luchin by the way
Um luchin luchin has some interesting things to say
He's the last
I want to say the last great
um
The last great pagan roman to ever live
And he says some crazy stuff
Um
That's the wrong page
Let me just pull up this last page real quick and then I this is so tie everything together. I promise
He says
Where do I do with it?
Oh, I got it actually I got it. It's over here
Luchin when we go to luchin real quick
All right, here it is
Here it is right here. So this is from luchin him to the mother of the gods
He's talked about in the mithraic religion. This is the last strata of paganism that ever existed
And he says something very interesting
Down here a little bit
He says
Perhaps it is worth to raise the following question
There are two equinoxes
But men pay more to honor to the equinox in the sign of capricorn than is the sign of cancer
Surely the reason for this is evident since the sun begins to approach us
Immediately after the spring equinox for I need not to say that the days begin to lengthen
This seemed to be more agreeable season
For a part the explanation which says that light accompanies the gods
You must believe that the uplifting rays of the sun are nearly akin to those who yearn to be set free from generation
Down here he says
For when with our eyes we perceive the sun's light not only is it welcome from useful for our lives
But also the divine play though said when he's saying its praises
It is our guide to wisdom
And if I should also touch on the secret teachings of the mysteries in which the chaldean
Divinely frenzy
Celebrated the god of the seven rays
That god through whom he lifts up the souls of men
I should be saying what is intelligible
Yeah, holy unintelligible to the common herd but familiar to the happy theorges
He's making say those who have ears to hear
right
now
The seven rays god we know
In just in many depictions is soul and dictus or myth rust
but
There is another seven-rayed god who comes a lot later in history
recently to us and that's
this god
so somebody
the architect of the great
Of the great statue of liberty who holds up that that that torch the light there lucifer
That architect I looked I looked into this person while this person was a freemason very mystic
Um very into the mysteries and I would not be surprised if this was inspired
by the seven rays god
Of julian the sliver the goddess liver toss. That's who that is
That's libera
So that's the mystery and that's that's the muses right there. It's about so
Summon all up to what i'm just what i'm getting at the religion that I want to replace christianity judeism and abraham and um
In um islam with is the religion that's not dogmatic
Doesn't require you to believe anything. It doesn't require you to say something happened in the past that you have to know about
You don't know what is requiring you to know any that stuff
It's all it's saying is that you can have divine inspiration too
Anyone can it's the religion of the muse. It's a religion of inspiration. It's a religion of poetry. It's a religion of music
religion of film
theater love
Madness and that has no dog dogmatism at all what required
And that means that what christianity came along and did
Was it took away divine inspiration? This was the last
Debate between the nostics and the and the orthodoxy. What were they debating?
What were they trying to fight over divine inspiration? The most important thing in the world
Those nostics were saying
Divine inspiration can come to anybody
And the church was saying no no no no only the bishops can have divine inspiration
We're the only ones that can have it. No one else is allowed to have it. They took all that power to themselves
They pretty much ended religion as we know it. They pretty much killed the gods
There's a reason why plutarch
Got the oracle that the great god pan was dead
As christianity was rising
That's what it is
That's it
Gorgeous the death of inspiration such a somber
Note to end that gorgeous chorus. That was fantastic
um, I was looking through some of your
some of your
Source work is in my mind as you were going through it and uh, I just wanted to say
Very well done. It's a shit ton of sources and people there's nothing that you can argue against
Just sources right because it means you're not really putting anything forward
But what's the actuality right like you do in court or something? I think it's I think it's brilliant
I want to ask you a question though. I get first question and
Anybody with questions go ahead and put them in the comments and let's see. Um, if we can get some answered
but
I want to ask you. What do you think the
Scholarly and theological
professional opinion
will be of
You talking about this history
Um from these sources that shows things that are very different about christianity and judaism
Well, how do you think this kind of stuff will be received? How do you think?
Theologian or a pastor or somebody just watching who's been exposed to christianity. How do you think people will receive this?
I think whether they know it or not
They might not know this but a lot of these scholars of christ of judy of of the bible
Are pawns
That are being used to protect sacred history
To protect the bible
Make sure that these two pillars stand up the two pillars are one that the old testament is very ancient
It goes all the way back to the early iron age bronze age
That's got to be there
It's got it. That's got to be the oldest
It's got a predate homer
If they have to have that happen because they want everything else to be inspired by it
It can't be the other way around
You can't you can't say that the bible starts around it gets finished
You can't say the bible is a product of the third century bc because that's no that would kill the whole religion
That would take the roots right out of the tree
The second pillar is that jesus is special
And that christianity is special and unique and inspired by god and that no paganism has any influence over it
Those two pillars have to stand
So if anybody tries to encroach that
They will be met
They will be met with problems
Yeah
What do you think our chances are because you know, we've got the bible
And we can teach people the bible
What do you think our chances are if we just take it to them with the bible and just show them everything that's in there
Or do you think ultimately there's going to be
movements against
You know, okay, you can't
Say something bad about x y or z
All right, because you're discriminating against us religiously
Do you think that the day is coming when there are laws
That will be made that will
Make it illegal for us to talk about such things so freely
it's amazing how
Anybody's a lot you can go ahead and you can say agamemnon didn't exist
And the trojan war didn't happen. That's all not you could say that if you wanted to right and people would say, yeah, cool
Yeah, but if you if you doubt Hebrew bible history
All of a sudden you get slapped with this
Oh, you're profaning Jewish history and that's anti-semitic
Wait, I didn't say anything about Jewish people. I'm talking about a text that I don't think happened
Oh, that's really that's really rude. Oh, do you know that's anti you can't that's the people the people actually believe that and that that's
I don't care
I don't care
I could if I'm allowed to criticize
other
Ancient mythologies and say those didn't happen and I can criticize this one too
And I it's amazing how quick people will throw that word at you
The as word the anti-semitic word just for pointing out things that are true
Right, right. And what's what's such a crime? I think about that is that the actual history of the Jewish people is way more interesting
Right the very fact that they're part of these migrations through the Aegean
You know and how does that influence their cultural development that
Why wouldn't you want to know the reality? Why wouldn't you want to know?
Um, I just don't get it. You what you showed was crazy
It's crazy how this one area of study has the special honors and has this this little protection thing going on
Or to criticize it all of a sudden makes you evil or something
It's it's like it's a lot I could say about that but that's we'll leave it at that for now
it's um
When you bring out the linguistic evidence and you kind of show one of the things you said that I really liked was
Um, nobody knows how old greek is
Right and it you start pulling out the plaschians into the equation and you're getting way before there's nothing in egypt
Right
Yeah, and you have these you're these scholars that I can't stand. Well, that's one of them on the top of my head right now
Who won't even say the word yaoi?
But say adonai because I don't want to be rude and say yaoi. It's a divine name
I can't say it but like then you have actual jewish people saying yaoi with not caring
It's like why you look silly you look stupid right now and I I think you're fake as hell
Sorry, I just think that's fake as hell
Yeah, you're like why should I listen to you at if you had this laws that you have to follow
You can't even say yaoi, but you're supposed to take you as as the as the scholar of this religion. No
You're showing me your bias right then and there
And I know I know you're gonna protect this thing at all costs whatever that whenever there's a wash
When it could go either way you're picking jude you're picking sacred history over the over over facts
That's what it looks like. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah
Yeah, totally totally we have to just work with the evidence
It's so obvious that they're
If you can't even say the word yaoi and you want me to think that you're uh
You're a middle a middle a mediator between the truth and no
You're working for it. You're playing on a team. It's so obvious. You know who you sound like
You know, you sound like neil you sound like
To talk almond
Complaining about that
Monast worship of a ten and how it overthrew almond. You're talking like him
um, that's still
That's the whole it's that totally repressive
Monast bent right like judeism and christianity islam are not the only manifestations
of
Monast religions. They're not and
We know that when you know, when you have this phenomenon take place that you have immediately
Look at where your creative stuff goes
Right. Look at where the what you and I would call freedom and the culture goes all of a sudden you've got groups that can be persecuted
Right. All of that that is a monast
tendency
And if you read the history going on around you, you can take the temperature
Of the patient and say, oh, look what you know what?
I think we're going to have
Persecutions now and we'll say it'll begin this way. You can just replay that record of history. You were doing some work with dark ages
Stuff tell me tell me. Did you ever get off and debate on the dark ages?
So I thought he was bailing out which I thought I didn't know if he was going to actually do it
We had a set up. I was going to debate someone
an actual christian
Very prominent conservative christian
On the topic of was the dark ages actually dark
Of course, I'm taking the opinion taking the side of yes
This person's giving getting the side of no and which they actually have scholarship on their side
So that I thought I'm giving you an easy
position to to fight me on
He bailed out. However before before you
Talk crap about him. He does he did agree to reschedule it to the 22nd
So let's hold off on see if he actually shows up or not
My guess he won't but hey, I might be wrong
I hope I hope um that he will
Because uh, this is a problem that I've been having is nobody wants to step into the ring
Right. I think it's I think it's
Cowardly, I think it's really cowardly if you're willing to go there on youtube
And and say anything about these texts and these religions
Why why won't you talk to somebody?
who's got
maybe
Some evidence
That you should look at right
They want the easy slam dunks they go on to tiktok and they find that one moron
Who wants to do like to make the dumbest claims in the world?
And then like slam dunk on this person the easiest low-hanging fruit in the world
And then get all this praise for being this great public-facing scholar
That's refuting misinformation out there that nobody actually believes anyway
So you're not it's like what do we do? You're just what what's going? This is this is what phd's are doing in this day and age
What what's going on?
Yeah, exactly. And so their response to you. I think I predict is going to be silence
Yeah
That's another thing. You want to actually engage in a real discussion
Bring with somebody who's actually serious about this who's actually going to the primary sources
Who's actually trying to be careful? Nope
Don't want to talk to you
I can't it's like that's like the most mind-blowing thing in the world
It's supposed to be a public-facing scholar
And you actually have somebody with real criticisms of some of this stuff and here's your here's your opportunity to be here to be the expert
Prove me wrong
Nope, don't want to do it
What does that tell you it's some there's some bullshit going on here. It's a fake shit going on with the scholars
Yeah, yeah, it makes me think that spreading the sources like you're doing is way more important
Historically right now. Isn't that what a scholar supposed to do? Yeah. Yeah
Like a hundred years ago before the internet or even 50 years ago, let's say
The scholar was the the place you had to go to to find out about the ancient sources
You couldn't there was no internet and you're not printing out books like they do today
There's no amazon
You had to go to a library or you had to go to a university and learn from an expert
Now now with the internet scholars are almost being replaced because they're just off in their own little world
writing academic papers for a few people
not the general public's not reading these really
um
Specific topics of discussion and they're very politicized. It's very politically driven. You can tell
Very politically driven. There's no more. No, it's it's not the same as it used to be
And i'm only saying this as somebody who's who reads modern scholarship and reads older scholars
I read both I read james frazier and you're like, oh my god the wealth of knowledge this guy has
Where he's like an encyclopedia of the ancient world
Just going into syria going into finicia going into egypt and writing about all these different gods and their in their cults
And then today it's like every scholar you talk to is sort of relegated into this one little specific area
And there's not a lot of big anthropologic anthropology
Driven
um
I mean
Books, I guess, I don't know. There are some i'm not saying there isn't like, you know, obviously there's there's some really good
textbooks out there, but i'm just saying for the most part. That's what it seems to be
The the mania is bad enough in modern academia
And I can only speak for classics, but the mania is bad enough
um
That they aren't doing their job
They're not really guarding the reason you're guarding those sources is forced the bigger
Uh benefit to society
Right, that's what you they're not just nerds who are sitting around looking at books
They're supposed to be nerds who are making sure the public has access
To this information so that we can maintain without filtering it without filtering it
Through their own biases, but that doesn't make careers
You got to go through the biases you got to go through the silly articles
You got to go and i'm telling you from experience in the hundreds
Hundreds of meetings through my 20 years
Uh of educational loan. I can tell you
Right, I can tell you that this process is meant to prop people up and it does and you have to become political
And you have to say x y z and if you say the wrong thing you can get fired
And i'm the perfect example of that right and once you're out you're out
So all of the academics neal that you will encounter
At heart are scared
Right, they're scared of losing their jobs or notice. That's what I've noticed
Yeah, so if they can't come out and say such
You know, um such stuff
You know, uh, I was I wanted to ask you
As you open up this gateway because what it is is a gateway to the
To the past that we haven't been privy to up to this point
As you open up this gateway, are you in uh, and are you finding like an even more interesting history?
Isn't it cool when you look back at what the people are actually doing and you're like, wow
That's you know, it's way more interesting than this
Monist fairy tale I got growing up, you know in america
Yeah, like I said before I'll say it again
The world before the church was colorful and three-dimensional
And and then all of a sudden they just became dark and two-dimensional
That's what I think it's the best way to describe it
And then people want to talk about oh the dark ages wasn't really so dark
You know the austere gods were actually pretty cool. They built these great churches. They and they they struck
Look at this golden monument. They built. I don't care about none of that
I don't even care if the economy was great, which it wasn't by the way. I'm finding that out right now
It actually wasn't that great
It was only good if you were like living in the top 1% and you were like a royal whatever
But anyways, let's not even talk about the economy or whatever. I'm talking about text
Talking about literature talking about things that make the world fun
Things that make you want to get up in the in the morning
architect or yeah architecture being one
uh theater
play writers
poetry
books about history
Where what happened to all that shit?
It goes away. It it gets killed
Because everything's directed at this one purpose the church the trinity
Mother Mary
And that's the world you're forced into
The the fact that people are studying this stuff and still want to slap that label on themselves
Is mind-blowing it speaks volumes about a person that you know this history and you still want to slap that label on you
that you're and then and then like
Try to act like some sort of
Progressive version of that. No, no, no. There's some fake shit going on there. I could see right through it
Fake I'm gonna I'm gonna quote you on that somebody. There's some fake shit going on there
right
All right, it was um the more you peel back the more you look at those sources
Isn't it amazing how the stuff just
Kind of fills in and you begin to see this picture when you've read
so
Of these voices of antiquity you start to get a real kind of
Authentic feel every once in a while just to inspire my
audience who is going through the process of learning these sources
Neil tell us
It gets to a point where you
You can see it so well that it kind of makes you high doesn't
Yeah
You're right. There's a buzz that you get from digging into these texts
and uh
and trying to understand what was the mindset like of people in those days compared to
Recently or in the middle ages or something like that and you're right. There's a buzz that you get from reading these people
It's a different world totally totally different world back then
Yeah, and you can bring that to people you can bring that to them through the language and through the sources
So I think we're doing essentially what the modern what the ancient museum would be doing
Right, you're you're like a librarian if you're living in alexandra, you'd be working for the library. You know what I mean?
Catalogging or something getting that's preserving that stuff. I love it. I love it
You know, it's a man's preservation real quick. Let's want to see someone on that
It's amazing how many texts
That are cited and quoted by ancient ancients like plutarch or
diodorus or or whatever
apolaus
Uh lucian cites all these texts and they're all citing the same sources
Like lucian knows a lot of the same sources that plutarch knows
Uh, pausanius knows a lot of the same sources
Hecateus of ebder is one of them, right? They're all talking about this hecateus of ebder guy
But then all of a sudden they lose all these texts
after the fourth century
It almost makes you wonder like what what how do you how do they just
lose the
What was going on in these libraries that they lost all these precious materials?
That we now don't even know what they said. We have to go through through. Um, we have to go through
Fragments of others texts to find these find these texts. It's it's it's terrible. It's almost like the history was as almost lost
we're lucky
Galen was complaining about christians burning down libraries
So I think it's I think it was intentional
I think that loss of information was monks who were using classical texts to wipe their backsides with
um, and you can see
Only the most famous survived
And it's it's just
Byzantine scholars, you know for everything that we say
those Byzantine scholars
Oh god, the commentators like tzitzis. Oh god, michael cellis those guys
They really did fight to preserve that
They saved humanity. They saved humanity. They really did and the um
Yeah, like you said like you got to think hack a taste of ebder
What did he say?
because
We're talking about the oldest person to ever talk about moses and abraham
And and I know he was well known because he cited so often by plutarch by lucian by
Whoever pausanias mentions him
So he's obviously well known
He wasn't like some rare text. They obviously could have preserved him. He was obviously that volumist at the time
What did he say that the church didn't want to preserve? What was he saying?
I bet you there's some shit in there that they didn't want to keep
And not only do they do they do they get or do they lose text that they didn't want to preserve?
They messed with text that they wanted to change like josephus
Interpolating josephus to put jesus in there
Like that's they fucked with our history
And what people just people just think it's okay
Yeah, it's not normal because for us you couldn't do that for us today. You can't fake those
I mean no like like, you know fake did you lose your career? You're done
That would be that's horrible to do that
but
um
We have all of those sources
All we need to do all we need to do is go back to those sources and when you start reading that stuff
You're done it and i'm telling you it's a drug. It's a complete drug when they we talked about inspiration tonight
um
Those forms of inspiration or mania the doctors on the side of gaylin were talking
About those types of mania and how they can be controlled with drugs
Part of your psychological well-being is your balancing
And that balancing comes through drugs
As if the you know humanity was meant to have a constant supply of this natural stuff
Um and it's all in gaylin
So when we talk about madness and the madness of the poet and all that kind of stuff
That gift
That gift is just an adjustment of your interaction with nature, right? They can breathe those mephitic vapors
They can chew those leaves. They can have those snakes that they're milking. They can use all of these chemicals
But it comes down to a process a very physical, you know
Real process and that process was called the mystery
And that's all we're doing is showing using these sources to show you I thought what you did tonight, you know with yaho
I thought that was gorgeous. Thank you for bringing in the little the manuscript that had the little yaho
And it's like dude seriously look at there it is
You cannot deny that
Right, there's no miracle there. You're just working with evidence hardcore evidence
So I love that and I hope that it doesn't cause you problems to be associated with
What did you think about the osiris thing?
No, I think it's yeah, I think it's the name the name ocea o o ocea in greek is holy one
And then sphazias has the same name in fridgen
There's even there's even a goddess called osiris
And she ultimately it comes into greek ultimately as aisa
They do something with the vowels
So, yeah, it is this holy divinity and what I like about aisa is that she is
Like supposed to be old old old like before
Olympian before anything you're seeing and in he seed she's supposed to come back from then
So she's this like goddess of justice, right? She turns out to be very much like
Themis
Very like and thank you for mentioning the thesmaphoria and all that kind of stuff like that
People think the laws were given, you know, here's western civilization law was given by moses. He's looking into the burning bush
He's getting all high and he's bringing down stone tablets and saying don't do this. That's where the law comes from bull
That's a third century story
Right already have legal precedent
Already in greece just through the agency
Right of oracles all that kind of stuff. Um, their god is the god of justice
Right. Hello
The orphic him to misa
Because there's a there's a female version of Dionysus in the orphic hymns called misa
In the orphic hymn to misa cause her Dionysus the lawgiver
And everyone wants to say pagans were all all lawless and just going around having orgies
No, they were as a civilized world where they took the law very seriously. That's how democracy works with the law
That's before you
Let me ask you a bible question before I forget
When in the in the acts of the apostles there when paul is doing his thing and those
It says those seven sons of the high priest
Uh, did you d and high priest went into the house with the guy and he had a bad spirit and they all come running out?
He says
Look, this is not how jesus did it. It's not how paul did it and they all come out running out naked
I wanted to add
I want I wanted to get your comments on that but I wanted to add that
Um, it I think it's reasonable to assume
If you have seven men in a house and they all run out naked at the same time
They weren't probably dressed
And then had their clothes ripped off
By this demon possessed guy more likely that they were there naked and he was like no
No, this is not how paul so you're using common sense and logic to figure out what we can't know
It's true
It makes me wonder why do you think he was so mad and beat him up?
Was it because it was seven of them and that's not what paul did is that I don't know. What do you think?
I don't know
Why is it? Why was he so mad? I don't know
um
But by the way a lot of those other apocryphal
I don't we you and I have both looked at these apocryphal early christian second century text
There's some weird shit going on
Like you have stories about mary being a child being given over to joseph as a as like a child bride
No one talks about that, but that was that was basically canonized from what i've understood
That was like understood to be like the truth about mary being given over to joseph as a child bride
And ever all these christians want to talk crap about muslims and saying oh
Mohammed had a child bride. So did she so did fucking joseph
So I don't know what's going on. What are your thoughts on that?
Well paul by the way, I think the
the apocryphal text that says that um, the
The midwife came into mary and palpated her and her fingers. Uh, she pulled her fingers out because
They were burning and I think that kind of anthropological evidence. I think that's the most valuable
Right. I think when you get down to the dirt, right? That's like archaeology. That's like literary
That's why I take that's why I take um epiphanious and apolitus and irony is so seriously
Because you're getting
You're getting an a view of you're getting a little window into things that you're not supposed to know about
Those are the dirty sources that you're supposed to be forgotten about okay, what about speaking of dirty
Speaking of dirty sources. What is your opinion on jesus going up into the mountains with mary alone?
And pulling her out of his side and then ejaculating after self-pleasuring and telling her she has to eat it or they're gonna die
I think what you're getting from epiphanious and by the way
Real quick epiphanious was a encyclopedias
So he if you read epiphanious's works, he's got sources that go back
He's got a lot epiphanious wrote almost as much as plutar probably wrote
We're talking books upon books upon books upon books. He was just writing every day of his life
He wrote a lot. He had a lot of sources. He was citing a lot of ancient texts
So when he tells us about a sect of christianity that existed in the first century
That had these certain gospels about mary that have jesus going on the mountain and splitting his self in the half
The way that you get with like adam and eve
It's part of the mystery like you mentioned the dyad
The monad rips into a dyad and splits off, right? That's what it's supposed to be. That's what it's representing
That to me sounds like an early ripple of christianity that they try to distance themselves from
That's what I think is going on
But I think what you're getting in that text is not some random heretical offshoot. It's early christianity
itself
Why is it
That eating jesus's semen is going to give mary life. Why do you think jesus was insisting on that?
Because that's
That's the that's the that's the
I want to say it's the mystery, but it's like a corruption of the mystery because you would eat dionysus
At the elizidian mysteries you would take part in drinking the kukion
That had the blood of dionysus in the in the body of demeter the beer. What if you
Just do it your own version of that in christ
And by the way that just like the lamb replaces the bowl
It's mystery talk. It's it's it's the we're talking about
language that is would be very
Noticable to any any Greeks living in that time period
So
What about
The semen I really want to dwell on this point. I really want to dwell on this point
What about the semen is going to be giving?
It is his essence
That is giving life if we know that they're using
semen in rights number one and we know in christian rights
And we know that they're using semen in medicine
Could the use could could jesus's i'm just trying to get in jesus's mind if I were standing there
And we had gone to this private place like he said
And you know there she is and all of a sudden I start spanking
And then I tell her you've got to eat this
Or you're gonna die
um
I'm only gonna do that
If I know there's something in that semen
Ready for this like that's gonna counteract what she's got
I mean when I saw the first time I saw two roman soldiers piss into each other's mouth
Right, um, I thought okay
Okay, I get it. I knew gaylin was drinking the urine all the time, but okay, I get it. Um
Is there something in jesus's semen is this
Already semen. I gotta share my screen real quick that I got down there
So
It's this is from john's gospel. This is not just some apocryphal text
in john six
he says it
he says
Anyone eaten of this bread he will live and then he says
I will give my sarks
That word sarks could be either blood or semen
right
It's kind of no the sarks is going to be flesh and the um the semen
Uh, I'm going to be the hyma hyma in greek originally hyma does just mean any body fluid that is your essence
But it comes to mean blood
So yeah, okay hyma. Yeah. Yeah
So
Flash
Yeah, whoever eats the hyma
Whoever drinks the hyma and eats the sarks gets to be zoe
Yeah, and that's what he's talking about when he splits himself off
You see how it all comes back to the circle full circle when he's the the the the female that splits off from the male is zoe
He's basically saying you could be zoe too
Eat my zoe
That's what he's doing. Yeah, isn't that?
That's crazy, but it's it's kind of
Wait a minute. So we've got two factions. Tell me if this is right. We have we have tons of factions
But we've got two kind of sides. We've got the people like the ophites
And jesus who is into semen consumption
Right, then we've got the people who are saying no no no
We've got to stop we got to stop doing that
um
Is this the biggest problem of christianity and it's and it's
Seminal form and it's earliest form. That's that problem. Are they trying to sort out the the whole sexuality of the mystery?
I don't know what's going on. I think early early in the early christian days. You had a lot more
deeper darker mysterious things going on and as it starts to popularize
Just like any other thing in the world it becomes corporatized and then it becomes oh, we got to make it pg 13
You can't have it rated r anymore
So then they start distancing themselves from their ancient
The real the the real pioneers of the religion christianity. That's what I think you're seeing
That's why I think these these these uh refutators were so important
the iranace
Apolitus epiphanius justin martyr because they had there was their job
to cut off
Cut off their roots
And basically distance themselves from their own past
So it's a shame now what took you
Um, what did you have to do to get to this point that you understand that because you know, most people don't understand that
What you just said
How did you get to that point? Just tell everybody real quick. How did you get to that point?
Well, because you don't have any other sources besides those
You have a black hole in the first century
Black hole besides paul and the gospels
There's nothing else
But then you start reading the refutators
And they go, oh, oh this guy, uh, his name is saturnius. He lived in the first century. He was a heretic
Oh, this guy justin or this guy, um
Facilities he lived in the first century. He was a heretic. Oh, this guy lived in the second century. He was a heretic. Wait
So who was not the heretics?
There's only all we have a bunch of heretics and then you guys living in the second century
And then all of a sudden it's like, oh, where's paul's writings at you got those. Okay. What about
peter what about
James what about oh, we lost all their stuff. So all we have are heretics
paul
in the gospels in the first century
And uh clement development clement of rome and 50 000
worth of magic books in one little village
right 50 000
dollars
in magic books
And that's what that's what i'm saying like all exactly then we finally discover
text
And what do we find we find the heresy stuff?
They go in they go to nagamati. Oh, we found ancient christian documents. Oh, what are they going to say?
Is it going to be on the trinity? Is it going to be something that that that promotes paul's writings?
Is it something that promotes uh, justin nope heresy heresy heresy heresy heresy?
So it's like what else do we have what you have nothing else but heresy?
That makes me think that the heresy
Was the real christianity
It's just very simple
Yeah, we have a duty. I love it. We have a duty to keep this stuff out in the
public and to let people know for
for humanity to know because you're painting a very different picture
And but what it does is it does you're getting you're creating right now the type of comments that I get
Which is oh now it makes sense. I never always thought something was wrong
You can actually see from what you're doing
With the sources you can kind of shine light on what the movements in christianity were and how they took over and destroyed
classical civilization
And that's classical civilization had to bubble up over time in the renaissance enlightenment
Right. Oh god. I love it. It's a long line, man. I I uh my hat's off to you
For being one of those
documentarians people remember they will burn
statues
Of gnostic informant, right? They'll they will burn them in effigy and then they'll 400 years later
They'll burn them in uh into bronze. They'll make a statue of him and they'll say this guy
This guy was good, which we always do
First of all, you they always demonize the dude who comes up with something new
Right, they always demonize that person and then it takes them a couple of centuries and enough people do enough work
On what that person was doing that they realized. Oh
That person was actually right. You know what bruno was saying bruno was saying there's other planets out there
Right un innumerable other planets out there with people on them
Imagine imagine, right?
Um gorgeous. Um that was heresy. It was heresy at first, right?
Right, right
Because everything has to revolve around earth where the whole this is and Jerusalem is in the middle, right?
That was the universe of that was the cosmos of the of the church forever
Right set set us free. Let give us the give us the sources. That's where the where the beauty is
Thank you for coming tonight. Neil. Tell us if there's anything we need to look out for coming out soon or anything
Yeah, I got some stuff coming out very soon
This weekend. So look out for it
You don't have to tell us what it is. That's cool
A reputation a good one a reputation. Oh that that leaves it off. Perfect exciting. Okay
Um satanic congregation. Thank you for coming and for uh supporting this venture this dual ventures tonight between
Myself and Gnostic. Um, thank you for your attention and hail Satan
Hail Satan
But you are all the flames of fena in the sky
Diamonds sharp on the magic cover
The man who laughs will mess
Ain't away from make these bitches jump
Posse out on Broadway
Dr. Do
Baseball rules
If you begin to face
If you want to
Crush you begin to face
Magic is best thing
Wish you could
Jesus Creepers
Mahathena
You
