All rise.
Why did you ever change your name?
Because you were like a wave on the ocean
Wild and free you came
And you were like a star coming out of mountains
Never to be tamed all the way
Why did you ever change your name?
All the way
Why did you ever change your name?
Tonight on Satanic Initiation
We are going to begin the Final Four
These are the Final Four of our series
Let the trial commence
Tonight we will bring the charges
In the case of the Trans-Dimensional Cosmos
Versus Jesus Christ
Tonight on Lady Babylon we are going to
Explore the charges
You will get some instructions
You will be the jury
And we will have a live verdict
From all of you who have been coming here
And putting out your time
We will have jury deliberations
And we will have a verdict
Tonight we begin with Upsilon
We begin with Upsilon
Tonight we jump into the court on Lady Babylon
Tonight we are going to start with a little purification
And this sort of purification I take very seriously
And I hope you do too
Because as we invoke God's
It becomes incumbent upon us to serve that power
Yes, tonight I want to call Decay
I want to call Justice
I want to bring her here to witness this cosmic trial
I want her to be here
And who is she?
I'm going to give you justice
In a few symbols, a few images
Let's bring her here
Let's bring her here
Let's bring her here
Let's bring her here
Let's bring her here
Let's bring her here
Let's bring her here
Let's bring her here
Let's bring her here
Let's bring her here
Let's bring her here
Let's bring her here
Let's bring her here
Let's bring her here
Let's bring her here
Let's bring her here
Let's bring her here
Let's bring her here
Let's bring her here
Let's bring her here
Let's bring her here
Let's bring her here
Let's bring her here
Let's bring her here
Let's bring her here
Let's bring her here
Let's bring her here
Let's bring her here
satanic congregation, understand what we are bound to do.
And we are bound to serve her.
Tonight on Lady Babylon, we are going to go to a place
where there are organized proceedings.
I want to bring you some charges.
Your instructions as a jury are provided in the hymn
that you just saw.
They're provided in the hymn that you just saw.
Maintain this rule for the omadike.
Maintain this rule for her.
Stand this ground for justice.
Let's do it.
Let's do it.
I want to begin by announcing some charges.
These are the charges.
There are six of them.
And you will be determining whether or not Jesus Christ
is guilty of all six charges.
I'm going to read these out.
Please note, this is an official record.
Charge number one, jury.
Hit it.
Aggravated psychic battery.
Aggravated psychic battery.
You are to determine if, in the course of events,
a psyche was set upon and battered in an aggravated manner,
in a manner to cause gross, gross, and irreversible psychic
harm.
Thank you, Chewie.
Number two, please.
What else?
Now, technically, these next two charges
are kind of a bundle.
You know, we need a commentator here
to tell us what we have instead is the authority
bringing the charges.
The transdimensional criminal conspiracy
is a plurality that is working together
within a racketeering force.
That's why the next charge is necromantic racketeering,
a very specific form of racketeering,
involving necromantic practices, resurrections
from the dead.
Death states the casting out of the forces of nature,
i.e. demons, the healings, and the bringing of life.
These are all necromantic practices
that we are going to show are used within a scheme of racketeering
on those two charges, the second and third charge.
Thank you.
Can you present the next apocalyptic assault?
And this isn't just felonious assault.
This is assault in the cosmic first degree.
Yes, this is an extra chronic assault.
We have to show intent.
We have to show purpose.
We have to show that there was something achieved outside
of time, first degree.
We have to show that the noose, the mind,
was outside of Kronos.
Fantastic.
Let's go to the next one.
Quantum obstruction of justice.
This one's pretty self-explanatory.
People get this one.
We as prosecutor of this case, we tend to bring that out.
It's my plan to bring that out.
I will show you.
It's my job.
However, this is just the announcement of the charges.
Quantum obstruction of justice.
Yes, anytime, anytime within the cosmic court,
anytime that you have an obstruction of justice,
you're dealing with a matter that is always
taken to the nth degree.
We know the mandatory sentencing laws
that apply, of course, to quantum obstruction.
They're pretty severe.
So this is a very serious charge,
why we're dropping it down here.
And finally, what we find the most egregious
is this false ionic imprisonment.
This is a contrary to one's will holding.
This is a forcing someone outside of the chronic stream
to be bound.
Yes.
It is a form of trafficking.
It falls within the trafficking laws
of the last 12th dimensional contract, I think it was.
Anywho, false ionic imprisonment.
And you'll see.
These are the charges.
And what we have to do is we have
to bring the jury the proper evidence.
We don't want you to come to conclusions
without the evidence.
This is why our jury system is so superior.
It's so superior, right?
Can you smell that ancient courtroom with 300 jurors
and Athens?
And they're all screaming, sweaty, and moving around.
Right?
It's like a mob.
Mob jury, right?
Love it from that mob.
We'll boil up, because our citizens are our citizens.
You people know who you are.
And I know there are factions that you want me to appeal to.
In this case, you want me to.
I invite the evangelical community.
I invite you to defend your guy.
Yes, we're not going to stifle anybody's.
We don't have to worry about people outside the courtroom.
We don't have to worry about terrorism.
We've got all of that clamped down.
Don't worry.
It's brought together in a very specific place.
Love it.
Let's go tonight.
Now that we've had a little bit of the justice,
and we're going to revisit these charges at the end.
Now that we've had a little bit of justice,
I want to bring you to the place.
I want to slow down a little bit, bring you to the Upsilon.
I want to bring you to the Upsilon.
In order to get there, we're going to start here.
Alice, first of all, can you tell us, Alice,
who is this justice, this DK?
What kind of God do we have in our presence tonight?
We're just going to talk about the judge for a minute.
Are you ready?
She's the Avenger.
DK is the Avenger.
She's also the Executioner.
And he's a little bit of goofiness of history.
Look at number three.
It says that she is also the Coneon.
This is how it refers to her, is the Timoros.
She is the Coneon.
What is that?
That's your hemlock, baby.
That's the stuff the state uses to put you into the ground.
But you can see people.
Take it down for a second.
I want to give you some of the reality congregation.
You can see people coming out of taverns on it,
on it, stumbling around.
Now, because it's only lethal at a certain dosage.
That's the game you're playing in antiquity.
It's only lethal at a certain dosage.
So you can take a little bit of hemlock.
A little bit of hemlock goes a long way.
And how do you treat somebody who's had too much
and they're finally losing it and they're walking around.
You keep slurring their words.
What do you do with them?
You take them down.
You give them X, Y, and Z. You can bring them out of it.
Fantastic.
That's who she is, right?
She is that Avenger.
She is that Avenger.
Justice in this.
I thought you said justice and vengeance.
They don't go together.
And no, no, it turns out justice is vengeance.
Oh, I see your cosmos.
Is that why he was saying?
Is that why he was saying it's not my cosmos?
Yeah, it's not.
It's a satanic cosmos.
Can you smell it tonight?
You're going to satanic cosmos.
And in that cosmos, DK is in charge.
She looks from that throne.
Let those who have ears to hear hear.
She looks from that throne.
Yeah.
And what does she do?
She comes right down on the unjust.
Boom.
Oh, don't you like that?
I think she's a little Amazonian.
Do you, Chewy?
She smells a little Amazonian to me.
I bet she would.
Yeah, I'm starting to like justice.
She's going to inspire some statues over time.
And you're going to see her, right?
But tonight, in satanic initiation,
you need to see her straight up front,
or we're not going anywhere.
This is a nice place.
Can I just sit here for a minute?
Leave that out.
Oh, if I were there, I would dance.
I would dance some kind of, I don't know, maybe a tango,
or something like that.
Oh, that's gorgeous.
OK, let's go back to the texts and the sources.
I want to bring up tonight the tail end of what
we did last night.
And is it connected?
And is it all part of the same venture?
Yes, it is.
It turns out we're talking about a section of known as
this paraphrase of John.
And he's saying that there are these two, Maria and Maria.
And one of them is the mother who produces the goddess, right?
And we talked a few episodes ago about it being feminine.
Why is Jesus the representative that's feminine and known as?
Well, you know, he's just trying to meet meter.
And it's just the wit and, well, that could be.
It could also be that they're associating this production
of a female goddess with Mary, the Virgin, right?
And there's Mary Magdalene here.
It says, right?
And Jesus, he's hanging on that cross.
And he's looking down at that kid that he loves,
that little kid who is the Theopida, right?
The Godchild.
Oh, look, there's the Godchild, right?
Right?
You're about to get some of that psychic battery, people.
Maitre Muthon, Alex.
Oh, goodness.
What's he say to her?
He says, hey, hey, lady, lady who loves virgins.
Next one, lady who loves virgins.
Look at your virgin son.
And then he says to his student, you know, his disciples.
He's a student, right?
A student.
Don't make it ugly.
It's the students.
He says, hey, you virgin.
And he uses a feminine there.
Because it says in a minute he's never
going to produce children, too, which is kind of weird.
But the thing I wanted you to pick up
was the very last line, the last two words.
This is a hapax legomenon.
Take that down.
What is a hapax legomenon?
It is word that only appears once.
This is the only place I have brought you tonight, a text
with the only time this word ever appears, ever appears.
Bring it up there.
Bring it up there.
Oh, look at that.
Look at that.
So how do we define it?
Well, we work with its roots.
We break it down, right?
And it's someone who's not, literally, who's not experienced.
Ah, bad.
Not experienced in what?
Odinos.
And what are odinos?
What is an odinos?
It's a pain that you experience while you're giving birth.
Yeah.
And she didn't have it.
She didn't have it.
Isn't that interesting?
Who is the she?
Look at the very last word, people.
I'm telling you, this is right in the Greek.
Anasis.
Anasis.
Anasis.
That's wanasa.
Wanasa.
You say, why are you saying it with a W?
Philbert, you nerd.
Because it's a diagramma.
It's a diagramma.
And the diagramma is hiding in the Upsilon.
The diagramma is hiding in the Upsilon.
It's an old letter.
She is glorious.
The diagramma is glorious.
She stays as the number six.
She stays as the number six.
And the diagramma is hiding in that Upsilon.
She is the wanasa.
She is the queen.
You mean the virgin was a queen within the cult?
Yes.
She is the queen.
Do you know who Cleopatra was?
No, you don't.
You don't know Cleopatra?
You nerds don't know Cleopatra.
You think you do.
And you get all worked up about it.
And you say, oh, I've seen some sources.
And the sources say she was the most incredible.
Looking most intelligent.
Most kick-ass woman.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
That's what the sources say.
She was the manifestation in this dimension of Isis.
She was the vessel of Isis.
Oh, OK.
Let's take a look.
Let's take a look at her.
I'd follow her.
Right?
I love it.
Let's go to it.
Go to the source.
The next source, please.
Boom, I just want you to see.
I want you to look at something from antiquity.
What is a castus?
It's a stitched embroidered thing
that we say belongs to Aphrodite.
We'll call it a charmed girdle.
Just take it down for a second.
Can we relish for a moment?
I'm not in any hurry tonight.
And I don't have a whole, I'm going
to work slower on the text instead of cramming.
I didn't want to cram too much.
We're dealing, what are we dealing with?
We're dealing an instrument of Aphrodite,
an instrument called a castus.
Do you thank your seminarians know about this?
They didn't until I got to St. Mary's.
And then the enrollment went up.
It was fantastic.
What is this castus?
What is it?
What is it?
It's an instrument of Aphrodite.
It's an embroidered skin made of skin, right?
With beautifully embroidered stitching,
illustrating some glorious, glorious things,
little wrapped in a, oh, such a soft, soft bed.
With a little embroidered story in it.
Oh, God.
And you know what's in the temple?
Wait, what?
Yeah, the sastis has a temple.
And what is the temple?
It's the place for the inner sanctum, right?
It's where you set up your tent.
It's where your skein-a is.
It's where your skein-a is.
It's a barb.
It's a barb.
Go back, go back, Chewie, to the next one.
Yeah, it's a barb.
Look, look, look, look.
Go down.
Yeah, look here.
What is this?
This is what you're doing.
This is the verb that they're taking it from.
Is the striking, the waspy, stinging.
It's a little stingy thing.
A cantron is a stinger.
It's a thorn.
Some people translate it as a thorn.
What is this thing that she's got?
She's got a thorn in the holy place of her girdle.
And that thorn is covered with purple.
And what happens when she takes that thing off?
You say, what?
Aphrodite's taking off her sastis?
Oh my god, this is the, this is it, right?
We're all looking at each other like, this is it.
This is it.
And she comes out and she strikes you with it.
And what happens when you get struck?
With Aphrodite's girdle.
You go insane.
You go mad with what they call erotomania, erotomania.
Love, love craziness, love craziness.
Yeah, it takes you there.
Isn't that nice?
She uses it.
Why does Aphrodite use this to influence you and me?
And you know the power of love, right?
I'm talking to the Saturnians here, right?
Not to the evangelicals or the Orthodox.
I'm not talking to you now because this is about gods.
And you don't worship gods.
You're the truest atheists on the planet.
So this really isn't for your ears.
But if you want to sit and be a voyeur, here it is.
And I know you do.
I know you do.
And I love it that you do.
I love it.
OK, so let's go back to the source and see.
Let's follow Aphrodite.
What are we doing?
I thought we were.
There's some felonious salt going on.
Hang on, hang on.
Next one, please.
Yeah, yeah.
What does it really mean to get struck with this thing?
It means to be net, oh, something.
To inire or co-irre with it, right?
Take it down.
They linked this process of this thorn that
is on this girdle.
They linked this process to the act of having intercourse.
So when someone comes along, I don't know,
someone like a John or a Paul, and they are talking about,
don't be involved.
Don't be involved in porneia.
They are not telling you not to have intercourse.
They're telling you not to be involved in the process of rebirth
through the classic Bacchic mystery.
This is the resurrection.
You don't want Osiris.
You don't want your eyes opened.
You don't want your eyes opened.
I can hear.
You don't want them opened.
Fantastic.
But for those who do, the call goes out.
The call goes out.
Bring us back up to see the last little bits of evidence
before we commence our trial.
Who is this Aphrodite?
I just want to introduce her to you.
She's a despoina.
And you say, what is a despoina?
Notice that they have despotes.
We get despot from that.
What is it?
This is a Bronze Age concept.
A mistress, lady of the house, right?
She used a Penelope.
Oh, that's nice, right?
Notice number two, princess or queen.
And then it says, well, what kind of queen?
The despoina colchon.
And who is that?
That's Medea.
They're quoting Pindar's Pythianode number four.
And Pindar's Pythian four is a record of Medea's oracle
that was handed down by the Delphic Pythia.
Yes.
Yes.
This is that old Bronze Age concept.
Go ahead and take it down.
Of that queen.
Of that queen.
Juan Asa.
We are talking about a woman of complete and total authority.
As a matter of fact, there's so much authority.
Get this.
If this is not, if this doesn't bring it out, nothing will.
This is not just a woman of authority.
This is a woman who will set straight
what has been made bent.
Wait, she will set you straight?
Yeah.
Oh, yeah.
No.
It's everything.
Complete package of medical, psychic.
I mean, this stuff goes way beyond your average cure, right?
This is healing for the mind and soul.
You're not going to get this anywhere else.
You're not going to get this purgation.
You guys are all going to kill each other's buffets to to wound up.
Unix.
Unix are the answer, of course, right?
Unix are the answer.
We need Unix for the kingdom of heaven, right?
And this is a process that we can do.
We do it.
Didn't you know?
We do it.
They may understand in Brazil.
Let's go back to the text.
Here we go.
I want you to just look.
I bought Upsilon.
I just, hey, can we look?
It's got both a vowel and a semi-vowel, right?
OK.
What is this thing?
It's a semi-vowel.
It's the diagram that I've been talking about.
What I want you to look at the bottom, just people, just relish in this for a minute.
Just relish from here down.
Look at the, get that Phoenician garbage out of there.
But look at the, look at the diagram, right?
Sometimes it formed a diphthong.
Ow, yeah.
Oh, wow.
Look at it.
There it is.
Ow, where do sun?
Oh, God.
You've got to love it.
That's why, you know, if you don't have this kind of stuff, it doesn't push you forward.
It doesn't push you forward.
Can you hear it?
That's the diagram.
How many seminarians are going to know about a diagram?
Not until I teach them.
Right, come here, boys.
Let me teach you.
I was bragging about my best students.
I was bragging about my best students in Bayonne, New Jersey.
Yeah, on a talky, anyway, some format.
As soon as you get the name and it's released, I'll let you know.
Go, let's go to the next one.
Hey, look at this, people.
I just want you to float with me here.
I want you to see Aphrodite.
Right, what does Aphrodite do?
She comes to Cyprus, too, and she enters into her temple.
What kind of temple does she have there?
She has one that produces an incredible amount of mist, a fog.
It's thuotic.
It's thuotic.
The sailors, what am I talking about?
The sailors that come here tell you, hey, the island is this way.
And you say, how can you see it?
You're on ship together, right?
And you say, how can you see the island?
Can you smell that?
Yeah, what is that funk?
It's kind of a deep, kind of, it's kind of making me a little bit, whoa.
You know what I mean?
Loosen me up a little bit.
Oh, that's what she's burning.
That's what she's burning.
Are you ready to see Venus come to her temple?
This is glorious.
This is glorious.
Let's go.
Let's go.
Here she comes, and I say Venus on purpose because you children of Rome, you'll know
what I mean.
Did anybody find the secret name of Rome?
I don't think anybody's found it yet.
She's coming into her temple.
This is in Paphos.
And there, what does she have in Paphos?
She has a tymenos.
She has a sacred precinct, a bolmos, an altar, right?
And lots of things that are, oh, God, incense that just, it gets you going.
They burn this stuff 24-7.
Did you know they burn it 24-7?
Oh my God.
Let's go.
Where's the...
Let's go.
I'll get the tickets.
She comes to the door.
She comes to the door and she closes it.
And what happens inside her temple now, we get to see.
Are you guys ready?
All you dirty, all you dirty people, you dirty people who say, hang on, I'm going to take
it for a minute.
I want to hold the ship.
You guys, you guys know, you can't talk about it.
It's forbidden.
You know, this kind of stuff that they're doing in the temples, you can't, Mickey Mouse
won't let you have it, right?
This is the good stuff.
We get a peek.
Today we're going to peek.
You want to see what's going on?
I heard that in his temple.
You want to see what's going on?
Remember we're with DK.
Let's see what happens.
She's there with all this incense, just this clouds of incense, you know, and there are
the graces with her.
The graces?
Yes.
The graces wash her.
Now, look at the fourth line down and the last three words on the fourth line down.
Khresan, Khresan, just stop with that one, Khresan.
Does anybody see Christ?
Does anybody see Christ?
Wait, what are you reading from all of a sudden?
Chewie, where are we?
What are the coordinates here?
Homeric hymn, Homeric hymn.
This thing is centuries, centuries before your guy took the title, she had it.
She had it, right?
And she had the belt.
She had the belt.
Oh, you mean Bacchus always leads to Aphrodite?
You know it.
And there are a whole bunch of dead people from the deserts of Arabia who for millennia
were worshipers of hers.
Yeah, through Bacchus, through Bacchus, Bacchus leads to Aphrodite.
This is the mystery.
Do you see the pair?
Do you know that Aphrodite and her earliest portrayal has male genitalia?
Does that bother anyone in the room?
Anybody?
Remember, you're the jury.
Let's go.
Let's go to that same one, yeah, let's finish it off.
Oh, what are the graces doing?
They're washing her and they're Christing her with ambrosia.
The stuff the gods have.
The stuff that is that sweet immortality.
That's what they're applying.
They're Christing.
And what does she do after she gets Christed?
Wait, I just want you to see it, I just want you to see it mentally, right?
This is so beautiful.
What does she do?
She stands up, right?
And she's there completely, completely covered in this glistening, glistening ambrosia.
This is the stuff that gives you ionic life.
This is the stuff.
You cannot exist within the quantum.
You cannot exist immortally, yeah, you can't, you can't.
You have to be, you have to be supplied with something to keep it going.
And that ambrosia, that source of life, I've got a tree for you.
I've got a tree.
It's the tree of life, Zoe's tree.
And from that tree, I can give you that which will open your eyes, and you will be Eve.
Yeah, yeah, okay, Lucifer.
Thank you very much.
Who's supposed to, who is on duty for this information?
Who was there when she got Christed?
Which one?
It was the dragon.
It was the dragon.
You mean the dragon was there and he still gave her access?
I tell you, I tell you, you divorce your wife, you kick her out, you kick her out, and the
next thing you know, your freaking slaves won't even do what you want them to do.
You mean he gave her the, he gave her the stuff?
Now she knows, now she's going to be totally equal.
She knows what we know.
Yeah.
All right, you know what you did, Lucifer?
You birthed, you birthed his, his downfall.
Oh, God, it's okay.
It's okay, little G, just sit there.
Just sit there, all right?
That's steady.
I can feel it, right about here, yeah.
I can feel it.
Let's go to this tag, back to the text.
We only have a couple more, we only have a couple more.
I want to go ahead and yeah, finish this one off.
So she's getting up from that ambrosial bath and what does Aphrodite do?
Look at the bottom.
They call her filimedes, smile loving, smile loving Aphrodite.
She is all decked out with gold.
This is gold and Aphrodite, all decked out with gold, wearing that dress that, oh, God,
if you saw this thing, you'd be so jealous.
As a matter of fact, why don't we show people, let's show people the dress, just in case.
Before we get to the dress, what do people say who are associated with Aphrodite?
Are you ready?
Here's one.
It's words from the lips of the dude that she engaged in intercourse with to conceive.
You say what?
Yeah, God's don't normally, typically it's fatal, right?
Okay, but this is what she does to everyone else.
Do you understand?
And she understands, it comes back and she falls for a mortal, which is, you know, it's
considering, considered within transdimensional, you know, legal terms, it's considered, oh,
God, I don't know, assault of a minor, yeah, yeah, it's not good, it's not good.
Let's keep going, let's keep going.
We have to have entities that are fully, fully aware of what's going on because, you know,
you take a human, right, and you have Aphrodite, it's unfair from the very beginning.
It's unfair.
But what I do says this mortal, who's this mortal, he's not just anybody, right?
He's the father of the dude who will become George Washington of Rome, right, right?
This is a big deal.
We are all as Romans.
Do you see where we are located?
We are located squarely within the city of the seven hills.
We are located there.
The Jerusalem is just a type of Rome.
It's just a type of Rome.
The Old Testament is written in the third century in Greek, yeah.
The Jerusalem is just a type of Rome.
And that power of Rome, which by the way, is in that name, which those of you who can't
find it can't use, okay?
So fantastic.
Smell the necromantic stuff.
I love it.
This is gorgeous.
Bring it.
Okay.
And so I'm just going to translate it, you know, he says, look, I would, you know, he's
talking to her because what she had to do, she had to lie to him, right?
She had to lie to him and say, I'm a, you know, I'm just some lady, just look at me.
Some lady down the road, farmers, parents.
Here I am.
Boom.
And he's like, well, you're, you appear, you appear to be a goddess.
Even guesses it's her already, you know, it kind of has it figured out.
He feels that sting.
And what happens?
He says, in order to enter your bed, I will go to hell.
Yeah.
He says, I am willing.
I would enter into the kingdom of Hades through your bed, through your bed.
And you think that we with Isis and people ask, where are the Egyptians?
Where are the Egyptians in all of this?
What about those drascans?
Where do they stand on this?
Lhasa.
We're squarely within, theonian realms, people, squarely, right?
What are we doing?
We've got both poles.
We've got Urania, right?
And we've got the Wanasa of the under.
Oh God.
Do you realize that on both sides, she is the image that burns through everything.
Do you know why they don't want Lady Babylon brought back in the apocalypse?
Which leads to a charge.
Do you know why they don't want her back?
Because they know she is that undefeatable extent to which monastic, monotheist, monad
of loving people can go.
They can't get beyond that limit.
She will shut them down.
Lady Babylon will shut them down.
Do you know what the misogynistic religion of Christianity, Judaism, do you know what
these forms of misogyny, their greatest enemy is?
It's Jezebel.
It's Eve.
It's Lady Babylon.
Yeah, their greatest enemy.
Did you hear the coyotes?
The coyotes.
Yeah.
Yeah, I hope you can hear that.
You hear them?
That's you.
That's you in the jury box.
Oh God, I love it.
Back to the sources.
Just a little bit.
I'm taking too much liberty.
I only have a couple more and I want to go through them.
Who are we talking about?
Did you tell who just entered the room?
Yeah.
Kronos did, right?
Who is Kronos?
He's Anculomatis.
Anculomatis.
What does that mean?
It means he's got a twisted mind.
He's got twisted thoughts.
He's got deceitful, twisted, calculated thoughts.
Yes.
Yes.
Okay.
Are you ready for the castration?
Are you ready?
Hey, if you can't do it.
No.
No.
Kronos.
No.
Don't worry.
Don't worry for a second.
Did you realize that Helios was involved?
Yeah.
Let's see it.
Let's see the religion come out.
Keep going to the next one.
Yeah.
She's wearing this peplum.
I wanted to show you guys what she's wearing.
What is Aphrodite wearing?
This thing shines like glorious fire.
Like fire flaming up.
This is how her dress, isn't that nice?
Imagine it.
Can you imagine it?
Put that incredible, incredible goddess in a dress that looks like this.
Oh, wow.
The charm.
I'm already charmed.
You can hit me with that.
Cestus is all you want, but I'm already charmed.
Let's look.
It's beautiful, right?
It's gold.
It's beautiful.
It's gold.
And you ask yourself, my God, man, how many references to the gold?
Lady Babylon's got the gold.
Why the gold?
Because this, ladies and gentlemen, is the house of dawn.
And we are seated on the throne with dawn on one side and night on the other.
This is the house of the glorious son.
This is the house of Apollo.
This is the place where Satan, the bringer of light, Yosferos.
This is where he, and I'm not talking, I know, I know they want to say Satan doesn't exist.
And you see all the YouTube channels, Satan doesn't exist, it's this and that.
And those number heads will ultimately vomit out some garbage about air make.
And that's when you know, oh, God, hang on a second, hang on a second.
You're in the wrong camp.
You're in a propaganda stream, right?
Let me take you to the real stream.
We'll go back to the archaic Greek, where we'll find what these words are doing.
Oh, God, lace stays.
Let me show you what a lace stays is.
Oh, love it, love it, everybody, can you feel that?
Can you feel that?
Yeah.
Don't ever mess with Yosferos, right?
Don't ever mess with the bringers of dawn.
The children of Rome, whose sacred name we don't know.
Yeah, one of us does.
One of us does.
I had somebody ask me, somebody that we all know asked me, can you tell me?
I said, no.
I've had other people ask me, can you tell me?
No.
Find the name.
Find the name.
These children of Venus is who the people of Rome are.
They are the children of Venus.
Okay.
Let's watch her.
Let's take a close look.
Bring up that last one.
We didn't quite finish it.
This thing is so beautifully worked, this dress that she's got.
It's so intricate, and it shines.
It causes this shining like the moon on her soft, delicate breasts.
It causes this shining.
It's a marvel to see.
Okay, take it down.
So you can see what the Greeks, in this archaic period, with things that they're really focusing
on, and what are the Adela, the images that they're using, and how those are affecting
their rights, and they're using her image, and that image is, you should understand that
there is a comfort in that image that is maternal.
The Romans found it.
They called her the Genetrix, which is like, it's almost like saying the great mother.
It's not the Magna Mater, but it's almost like saying the great mother.
It's the producer, the progenitor, she who brought us everything.
Remember, behind Rome is a she.
Behind Rome is a she.
This feminine force can't be overcome.
It can only be repressed temporarily.
Ultimately, it will bust forward.
It will burst out, ripe, and the world will be full of that bloom, that radiating bloom.
It's a feminine force.
It's a feminine force.
Bacchus always leads us to Aphrodite.
Okay, let's go to the next source.
Now, and I just want to say, if you can just look at this, she's always putting the gods
through it.
You know what I mean?
She's giving them that sweet desire.
Who here does not like to be compelled by the hormones?
I use hormones on purpose because it's within the structure of the Greek.
That desire, that pushes you, that pushes you, that force, that force that drives you.
It's so sweet.
It's so sweet.
And what does she do?
She blasts everyone with it.
The immortals, the mortals, the things that fill the air, and the wild things, those wild
things, those beasts, go ahead and take it down.
She brings, she brings that to all of them.
To all of them, when you're thinking, okay, where's Jesus?
I'm feeling, I'm feeling like I need Jesus in the room.
Mommy, where's Jesus?
Boom, yup, that was to the muse, right?
This is so gorgeous too at the time, look at this, moussa, right, moe inepi.
Tell me, oh muse, of the works, of what is she?
She's poluhrusu, she's poluhrusu, that golden, that resplendent, much golden.
It's not just little golden, aphrodite.
This is much golden, aphrodite, radiant aphrodite.
That's who we're focusing on is radiant aphrodite.
Okay, next text, back to, you know, I'm going to drag somebody into it, I've got a malicious
desire to drag somebody into this, but before I can, I've got Paul, right, I've got Saint
Paul.
You guys know it, you love it, don't you?
You love it, I'm going to whip him.
Are you ready?
We're going to show you the Bible, I'm going to whip him.
Are you ready?
But look what's going on, look at that, just that middle, what kind of form does aphrodite
have, by the way?
What kind of form does she have?
Her ados?
What is it?
What is it?
It's like, well, first of all, it's great.
It's great, but it's great in its unbroken virginity, in its indomitable virginity.
You cannot touch this virginity, they, wait, what?
This is aphrodite that we're describing?
Yes.
You see what Christianity has done to your perception of antiquity?
Not Bible times, because those don't exist, but antiquity.
You see what it's done to your perception?
You didn't know.
Aphrodite was, she was described in the same terms as you describe Artemis.
Artemis, the virgin, huntress, right?
You cannot dominate her.
You cannot dominate her.
She is the Adamus.
She is the Adam.
She is the Adam.
Do you see what Jehovah was trying to do?
Do you see what he was trying to do?
Yeah, trying to bring his boy.
Yeah.
Oh, Satan.
Satan, Satan, Satan.
Yeah.
All right.
Let's go back to the, back to the evidence.
This is lovely.
Let's bring her.
She's right in the middle and she's got that form, right?
And it's parthenic.
It's parthenic.
You're not going to be able to violate her.
As a matter of fact, she's going to violate you because of decay.
Decay protects them.
This is the Oma from the throne.
And it protects them.
I don't care if you want to throw out Aphrodite because she's God.
I don't care because you're a monist.
I don't care.
You cannot throw out justice and continue in a society.
You have liars who drag us all to the depths and we'll just, we'll just end up finishing
it.
Apocalypse style, justice.
We serve justice always.
Let's go to the next one.
This is, I was a little preachy.
I'm sorry.
Everybody's waiting for me to beat up Paul, the apostle.
Okay.
Yeah.
Which is a privilege.
Yeah.
Right.
They, what is she doing?
What is happening?
Cosmically.
I just wanted you to see this.
That sweet desire, that sweet desire is being placed in your breast, right?
It's being placed in your breast.
It is a force that is outside of you.
It is a diamond, the winged diamond who has the golden wings from the house of dawn.
He is called Eros.
He is that archer.
Do you have your bow?
Jesus, the morning star has a bow.
Check it out and ask yourself, I didn't know Jesus was walking around with a bow.
The only thing I ever saw Jesus walking around with was little kids and, and gets involved
with some crosses, got images with him across his lot and sometimes on a boat.
Yeah.
These are the images that I've got of Jesus, right?
I don't have one of these, one of these images of him.
What does he got here?
Go back to the text.
They were just, yeah, yeah, yeah.
He's got something in his chest, right?
He's got some kind of desire.
Go to the next one.
Bring him in.
Bring him in.
Bring in Paul.
I'm flustered.
Did you hear that?
I skipped that.
I think I jumped off the train.
Did somebody catch my brain if you're, if you're able to?
Here it is.
Here it is, Paul.
Here it is.
Excuse me.
People who are not accepting of such, you know, ungentlemanly, hey, Paul, Paul the Apostle,
tell me, I want you to give all of us tonight as a witness, Paul, as a witness.
Don't look at me like that.
Don't look at me like that, Paul.
I want you to give me tonight as a witness your impression of Aphrodite, your impression
of this coupling, Paul, I want you to give me what, what, what about the temples, Paul?
Tell me, tell me, what is it?
What is your mystery going to bring the world in place of Aphrodite?
What are you going to substitute her with, Paul?
Are you ready?
You Christians, look at what you've made.
Look at it, what you're supporting.
Bring it up.
Bring up that Paul the Apostle.
This is the letter to the Corinthians.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Okay.
Everything things which you, you know, wrote about, it's good for a man not to engage
a woman.
It's a good thing, wait, wait, wait, wait, take it down, wait.
It's good for a man not to engage a woman, not to hop to a woman, nobody be hop to mind
any women, right?
It's good for you not to.
You mean like Jesus was hop to mind those children, right, right?
He's a harpy.
We're going to get to fingers in a minute.
That's tomorrow's next episode.
But yeah, let's go back, back to the text.
Yeah.
Paul, give, give me another one.
Give me another one, Paul.
Give me.
What is it?
You think about this whole Aphrodite thing, the whole coupling, Paul?
Yeah.
It is because, Paul says, it is because of the porneia.
Yeah.
For the sake of the porneia, each person, let him take his wife, let him take a woman,
a woman, let him take a woman, let each woman take a man.
Yeah.
Why?
Because the porneia, the porneia.
It's only because you have to, Paul acknowledges in his epistle to the Corinthians first.
He acknowledges the victory is already won.
You can't escape.
You're Christians.
You can't escape.
The greatest defeat that you face every time over and over and over again is that luscious,
luscious flash of Aphrodite.
You can't beat it.
You can't.
Your wise men end up in hotel rooms doing bad stuff.
Your youth pastors end up in cycles of oppression causing assault.
Yes.
If you don't use it openly, yeah, in which case, when you get home, when you get home,
I know what you're thinking.
I know what you're thinking, what she's there for, because you don't worship Aphrodite.
I know you.
You preach.
You preach on Sundays.
I know.
I know what your submissive women do.
I know.
I know how it's better to serve you.
Yeah, I do.
Yeah.
Well, you wouldn't have Aphrodite and I'm sorry, gents, but you can't.
You can't raise the flag.
It's part of the agreement.
It's why you got all that frustration, Pastor John.
It's why you got all that frustration.
It's why your kids are going nuts.
It's why they're going nuts, John.
Yeah.
Love it.
It gets my, this kind of stuff, Jerry, does this get your goat?
He gets my goat.
Yeah.
Hallelujah to the holy sign, to the holy sign.
Amen.
Amen.
Let's go back.
Boom.
Paul, give me, answer a couple more questions and answer a couple, couple more for me.
Um, don't, this is Paul, don't hold back, you know, don't keep back from each other.
You know, unless it's for some kind of prearranged agreement where, because you're going to be
praying, you're going to be praying because you, everybody knows, can't have sex while
you pray, right?
Although it, maybe that's just Paul's world, right?
Maybe the, maybe we got no problem.
Do we have a problem?
Do we have a problem with that?
No.
I'm praying to Aphrodite.
Right?
I got no problem with that.
And do you see the block here between what became Christianity, right?
Because the early Christians, half of them are doing this stuff anyway.
The porneia that Paul's trying to drive out, um, those are, those are occult happenings.
Yeah.
It's, they're getting arrested for them too, because they're doing incest and stuff like
that.
Dude, you got to come on.
This is, this is Roman influence, baby.
You're going to be, you're going to follow some laws, right?
Come on.
Get this, this province, it smells.
Every time I come to visit this place, it smells.
Can't wait to get back to Rome.
Don't can't you?
Oh God, everybody.
Let's all meet at the baths.
Let's all meet at the baths.
We'll have a wonderful time.
Oh God.
Love it.
Let's go to the next one.
Um, yeah.
So don't withhold yourself, you know, um, unless it's for these little prayers, why?
Because you know who, look at the second to last line, or Saturn himself.
What is he going to do?
He's going to get you on account of your, my what?
Your egg, Crassus, you're out of balance.
You got too much, right?
I've put too much voodoo on you.
Can you feel, can you feel the desire rising?
Can you feel it rising?
And as you get in that rush of desire, what happens?
What happens?
You get out of balance.
You get out of balance and you just got to go.
You know, you got to go there.
There's a place.
There's paradise.
You got to go and, um, look, um, that, that paradise, it involves us going there together.
Yeah.
It involves that, that water of life, you know, that peak and that pinnacle.
This is the song.
This is that song of the universe.
This is that siren.
This is that siren.
You can't plug your ears, man.
Plug your ears or you will get sucked in, right?
Pastor John, your, your reason that we have the sisters of frustration, right?
And that we have people who are abused, right?
Priests, pastors, ministers of Christ, your reasons people have been abused.
Didn't you think you're going to be held responsible?
Didn't you think DK was a reality?
I know you didn't.
Well, she is.
Watch this.
Let's go.
One more.
Let's go.
Two more.
Give me another one.
Yeah.
Look, if you can't control yourself, says Paul, go ahead and make, make like you're entering
a gamos, a union, right?
Yeah.
Why?
Because are you ready for this?
This is an attempt to assassinate a divinity and that divinity is Aphrodite.
Paul is shooting directly at her.
Are you ready?
He says it is better to gamo than to burn.
Wait, wait, what, what?
It's better to enter into intercourse than to burn.
What are you recognizing, Paul?
Sounds to me like a statement of defeat.
Sounds to me like the side of Christianity that you push forward, couldn't figure out
a way to defeat the poor Naya.
You mean you didn't find it?
You know the feelings.
You know the feelings.
All we have to do is give you that image of that beauty and you're a slave.
You call yourself a Christian, which you can't stand against that power.
You know you can't.
It's within you.
It's within you.
You won't be able to go to sleep unless you can come to that place, unless you can be
there with her.
We all know what the mysteries are about.
It's about bringing Eve.
We know.
It's about bringing Eve.
Devil was supposed to guard.
All right.
Ultimately he did.
He kept the way open to the tree.
Yeah.
Last, let's go to last Paul.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Don't be slave.
No, that's yeah.
Look, he's telling him, you people, what does Paul tell his own frigging people?
He says, you've been bought out of the slave market, right?
It makes sense.
It makes sense that the dude who's perpetuating something that was the idea of the grand lace
stays and now has full funding, Peter, James, and John are collecting.
The business is going.
It makes perfect sense that he's telling the followers, hey, you've been bought out of
a marketplace, brah, don't be slaves of mortals, don't be slaves of people.
You're purchased.
We got you.
What does that have to do with any, you keep going, last one?
Yeah.
What do we do then?
Is these purchased slaves?
Paul, tell us, because the temple of Aphrodite is right next door, and to be honest, I can't
take your BS anymore.
I'm about to go over there and have my brain cleansed from your misogynistic garbage.
Tell me, Paul, tell me, please, give me the advice.
What does Christianity have to do with Aphrodite?
If you are bound to a woman, don't try to be unbound.
If you are not, if you are freed from woman, don't look for one.
And that is how a God becomes a victim of assassination, and you and I sit.
You and I sit underneath this aggravated battery, where's my charge?
Aggravated battery, this is where you and I sit underneath the aggravated battery, and
we absorb our concepts of the world around us, our concepts of love, our concepts of
sex.
We absorb via your battery, your misogyny.
We absorb it.
And we too want to hate her, the great queen, but you, my friend, you, my friend, have come
up against the wrong woman.
Let's go to the, I just want to remind us of the charges.
Tonight we talk, we're going to mention it tonight.
I just want the press cycle to enter in, oh, look, the grand jury brought forth indictments.
We are charging with transdimensional criminal conspiracy, and I will strive to show over
the next three sessions exactly that, that they have indeed formed a conspiracy.
And with criminal intent, and that this next, this involves racketeering, specifically necromantic
racketeering of a resurrection and death sort, using profit, profit-motivated practices, profit-motivated
practices.
Now, our standards will be different, right?
This is not typically what you would have in a human court.
Our standards go to the core of the person, right?
If we're going to serve DK, we have to go to the core.
We have to go to that reality.
Good.
And apocalyptic assault, we'll talk about, we'll talk about what kind of, what kind of
assault is apocalyptic.
It's a specific form.
It's a specific form.
And it is setting, it is setting what you would call your mind in a state of expectation
of apocalypse.
It's something that people do to psychically kidnap you.
Yes, love it, which brings us, before the obstruction, go to the final, to the false
imprisonment, the false imprisonment.
And we'll show how this false ionic imprisonment ultimately, ultimately obstructs justice.
And you think, what?
The obstruction of justice, that's just a minor.
That's something you get Lion Orange on, right?
That's something you just, it's a minor, no, it turns out in the cosmic court, obstruction
of justice is everything, is everything.
So behind all of your crimes, petty, right?
Or not petty, behind all of your crimes is a form of the obstruction of justice.
That is the true dark matter that must be purged.
In this case, against Jesus Christ that we take up for the next three sessions, I will
show you that Jesus Christ was guilty of multiple, multiple statutes, laws, common sense that
Jesus Christ is not himself a victim, but a perpetrator that he portrays himself through
his criminal conspiracy with the brand of a victim while being a perpetrator.
We will show in court that Jesus Christ, the lace-dace, was in fact purposefully and intentionally
plotting to obtain the most extra-terrestrial power since Adolf Hitler, yeah, yeah, yeah.
We will show that what you deem to be the innocent is that unjust and crooked.
And how are we going to do this?
And who, what, you're crazy, right, it's crazy.
It is, but we can do it, and the exciting way we can do it is through the necromancy
of bringing back Jesus.
I will bring Jesus back to answer questions directly, directly.
You will hear from his voice, ladies and gentlemen of the jury, you will hear from his voice.
And from this, I hope that you are able to come to a verdict of guilty.
Thank you.
We will see you with the opening arguments on Wednesday.
I'm going to be private and hang out by myself for the rest of the night.
Thank you for coming tonight.
I appreciate your time.
Hail Satan.
He never cared for his payment for June, a worldly renown, on the day that it came
in again, he just turned it down.
All the way, why did you ever change your name?
