I never meant anything I said Just spittin' on everything I've been fittin'
Keepin' from eatin' away at me Never said anything I meant
I never said the letters that I should've said But so it's askin' too much for you all to believe
But when I say, never meant nobody knows When I say, never was a cause for a long
Never knew what I was talkin' about anyway
Welcome back to Lady Babylon Satanic Initiation
We have a treat tonight. We're gonna do the show with a split personality.
It's gonna be Gnostic Informant right here with us to punch us with all those sources to dig deep.
It's a pleasure and honor to work with a servant of the muse.
Tonight we're going to dig into the apocalypse.
We're gonna open up the very opening and we're gonna show all of us
Who is this guy named Jesus? Yeah, who is she? Fantastic.
Great show. Hit it, Chewie.
So we're gonna bring him on, but before we do, I want to say a couple of words really quick.
We're gonna bring in this champion who has been searching the sources and plummeting the depths and is outgunning the big guns.
I'm very, very proud to work with the Gnostic Informant who has achieved gnosis.
Yeah, love it. Love it. A little bit of music for you to introduce us.
We're gonna sum it up, ACDC tonight.
Neal, and I want us in their spirit as if they were chorus.
I'm gonna play them a few times as if they were chorus here to our work.
How are you doing? Absolutely doing good.
The mania is flowing. I've got the spirit.
I'm ready to go. I'm ready to follow your lead in this and digging into these sources.
I'm gonna resurrect some of these ancient, ancient Greco-Roman thinkers of these pre-Christian times so we can have a post-Christian time.
I can smell the corpses. I can smell them.
I want to reach in like that witch did in Luke, and I want to reach open that mouth, put my teeth against his teeth, and just suck out that voice.
Love it. Tonight we're gonna go to two sources or two wells, and I'm gonna bring everybody, and I want us to just blow this thing up.
Look at it. I'm gonna bring everybody a new orific source. Some of you have heard of it. Some of you haven't.
None of you have read it. I know because if you have seen any of it, you've seen it in translation.
And there is a power to the language that is here that I think you'll see tonight.
It's just astounding. And I think we're gonna open up. The view is right. Open up. We're gonna keep opening up that reality to see what's going on.
I want to hit us right in the beginning of the apocalypse. Let's take the ship there. Let's set it. Let's go in and let's see what they're saying.
Chewie, give us the apocalypse. Apocalypse Jesus Christ. Yeah, this is the apocalypse, right? Of Jesus Christ, right?
Which God gave, right? To all His servants, right? Oh, this is wonderful stuff. We've seen all of this, right?
Oh, my God. Blessed. Look at verse three.
Makaeros. Makaerios. Excuse me.
That person is blessed. You could say blessed, fortunate, who is recognizing or bringing back the knowledge, right?
Tonight it's Anakignosko, right? People don't realize this. This is a cult term. If you were to take all of just a purple highlighter and to run through anything it had to do with the cult, the mystery, the performance of the mystery,
this would be part of it, right? So, okay, first thing we're looking at tonight is bringing back up that knowledge, bringing it up.
We're going to end up in the lap of the priestess. But right now, we're there in the initiation and the opening up. Good. Hit the text again.
Yeah. Very fortunate it's the one who brings all this stuff up, right? You know, the words of the prophecy, right? And guards them.
This dude is, you know, honored because it's time. It's time. We've got to guard those things written. Okay. Those things written. Yeah.
Okay. All right. So put yourself in that apocalyptic mindset. Hit us with the next text. Here we come in. Oh, yeah. No, this is just yet to the churches in Asia.
It's a greeting, right? He's the first thing he opens up with is peace and, you know, charity, grace, you know, good favor from the one who own, look at that second line.
On the one who is being and the one who was the one at Hominos, the one who's coming, right? And look at that very next line.
From those seven spirits, those seven spirits, right? He's charging up here. He's charging up. We know the Greeks used the concept of charging things up, sigils and whatnot, charging them.
He's charging the right. He's getting it ready. Hit us with the next text.
Next text. Yeah. Go back to that one. Yeah.
Look at verse number five.
Look at that. What is that? What is that? It's the first talk. Bring us up to the next slide. Look at Alice. Alice, please tell us what is this?
Hmm. Bearing or having born her firstborn. Look at this. Where it's used. It's used with mother having to do a heifer, right? As far back as the Iliad bra.
Look, it's dealing with an ikes, a goat, entheocrates, a hoose, a pig, a pig. Yeah. You like that?
Does that say nymph or orphic?
Cool. Yes, it does. Neil, what's your question? Say it again.
Does that say nymph for the orphic?
It does. It says nymph. Let's go there. Why don't we go there to the nymph and see how she is the first bearing, right? The first bearing.
Remember, when you're translating this, you're not looking through a Christian lens. You're not looking through a Jewish lens. You're not looking through an atheist lens or anybody modern.
You're looking in that ancient pool. Good. Let's go to that next text here because Neil brought it up.
Neil, this is the text that we're talking about there. Yeah.
Yeah.
That word opaso is used on the medical side a lot and it's an app. It's a word for applying, right? I'm applying this, this assistant stone, right?
To the, to the person who is in this place of need and it's any platon. Look at that second line. It's full of what says Pessioio Galactos.
It's full of this says Pessio. This or oracle bringing milk, oracle bringing milk.
Aote, just as the Mazdan, just as the breast Prototokununfe of the, the first bearing nymph.
Okay. So as everybody knows, just nature, she's had her child and now she starts lactating, right? This epithet that is used to describe Jesus is a cult epithet.
That was a cult work, right? The stones, the lethal.
It's a cult work and within that context, it has to do with the application of a drug of a drug.
So we're starting to get a right, a picture of a right where the milk provides the antidote.
And that's exactly what they're doing. Remember, we talked about creating the body through which the communion can come.
So I want to, this is going to the first topic I want to approach with Neil.
Neil, so you've got, give me that polished stone dildo that works as a medical applicator.
Give it to me covered in the burning purple.
Yeah. Yeah. Apply it as they would rectally, rectally.
Right. This is the right. We're walking through the right.
And this induces a state of mania that we can only describe as psychosis.
And we have the descriptions of how the people react when they're in this state.
The priestess that I'm about to show you, after whom Jesus is mimicking, after whose rights Jesus is performing a mimicry, right?
He is taking her titles. He is taking the nymphs titles.
And when she applies, so I've got the medicine on board, right?
And when she applies her, when I go to the dark harbor, she applies what's in her vagina through orgasm to my mouth.
In that combination, I'm going to die with that combination. I'm going to die.
But if in the process, she has rendered me her breast milk and this isn't any.
And if, by the way, we're talking about rights people that are drug activated and sex activated.
So they're combining. That's why the word for fornication is also the word for just to practice idolatry, right?
So, okay. So at this point, at this point in the right, if I have taken of that breast milk of hers, which our texts say is only from the on Fox, only from the grape breast, the grape like breast of that woman that we have engineered,
that we have engineered that Medusa. And I'm going to show you in a hymn in just a second that Medusa that has the titles that Jesus is stepping into.
So, okay, if I've had that galani, they call it, if I've had her breast milk, it will keep me alive.
I may be in a state of death for three days.
But if I have that galani in me, I can come out of it.
I can resurrect.
So, okay, let's stop there for now.
And I'm going to throw in some more sources.
Neil, where's your mind on this?
So I'm thinking about how in the depiction of in these Gospels, there's, there's, you have the, the, the three day motif.
You have the idea of him being thirsty on the cross.
Specifically, why would the author write that in there?
What does that have to do with anything?
You have these hymn chanting, cathonic, cathonic father.
And, you know, these are supposedly from the Psalms, which is fine because that's what Orpheus would be doing if he's dying too.
A lot of this stuff lines up with the rites being applied to the story.
And I think we lose the context.
The Catholic church sort of shelters their sheep because they're the pastor.
They got the rod.
They got that, that augur staff and they sort of shelter Europeans for a thousand years from where these rites actually came from.
But if you actually told the story to somebody in the first century, second century in, I don't know, Paphlegonia or Phrygia, they would know exactly what the hell is going on here.
That's why you have people with a Nazi preacher in the second century.
But I'm getting a little bit ahead of myself, but I'm just, I'm trying to illustrate for people.
These, the context of these rites make perfect sense for the, for the time period.
But 1,000, 1,500 years later, with, with all these rites being hidden and done behind closed doors, we have no idea what this stuff means.
We have no idea why he's saying I thirst or why they're pulling out alabaster or why three days.
What does all this mean?
That's where we're getting that beautifully stated.
Let's call up the next text that we're going to look at.
So look, it's coming in the clouds.
You don't pay attention.
He's coming in the clouds and all eyes will see him, right?
Whoever, whoever, you know, put into death, whoever crushed him, right?
Right.
And everybody's going to see him a man.
I just want you to look at the last word in this passage, right?
A man.
Why are we inserting a magic word here?
Right?
It's very important because this is an incantation.
Right?
This is part of the prophecy.
When he gets smacked into the wilderness, you can take it down.
When he gets driven into the Eremon and he's in his state.
Notice that John says he fell on the ground as if he were dead.
Right?
Right?
These are states that they are inducing.
They're physical states, you know, they're messing with the physiology.
And yeah, let's go see who that next text.
Let's go see who she is.
Look at this.
Ego, Amy to Alpha.
Kaito, Omega.
Leia, Curia, Sotheos.
Yeah.
I am the Alpha and the Omega.
Why is he saying that?
Right?
People are like, what does that mean?
And you can get entire sermons on this that are full of unholy garbage.
And look at this.
Look at this.
Neil, you're going to love this because now we're going to, I'm, I'm bringing in C.S.
Lewis.
I got him right here.
I got him right here.
And I'm doing untoward things to him.
I'm going to do some untoward things to him right now.
Right?
Okay.
You can't see me where I'm doing it, but I'm doing it.
Look at this last word.
Panto Kratur.
What is a Panto Kratur?
Yeah.
Do we have the next, just give us the next.
Yeah.
Look at this.
Look at this.
Yeah.
Panto Kratur.
Oh, it's a masculine form of the Panto Kratera.
Wait a minute.
You say there's a feminine form of this word?
Yes.
And look what the source is.
It's the Orphic hymns.
Surprise.
Surprise.
Everybody says, and Neil knows this, everybody says the date on
these Orphic hymns is hard to fix.
And some people will say anywhere from sixth, fifth century down
to second AD.
And some scholars stepped up about 30 years ago when I was still
into the scholarship.
And we're saying, no, no, no, by the, the archaisms that are in
the language.
This has to be contemporary with he said and possibly possibly
a century earlier.
If you look at the nuances of the hymns and how they're built and
the words that are being used and how they're being used.
Yeah.
It's, it love it.
Love it.
So I'm one of those earlier guys.
So we have the title for the Panto Kratur, right?
But it's in a hymn.
It's a hymn to nature, which also uses all the empathets that
Paul, the apostle, who is way, way immune to snake venom.
The dude got bit by an ass.
Nothing happened.
He's like, and he knew it wouldn't happen.
Right.
Yeah.
Amazing.
Amazing.
Yeah.
Amazing.
Amazing.
Let's pull up a text.
Pull up the next text.
Chewie.
Thanks.
Here it is.
Here it is.
I'm going to read it from mine.
How foosie.
Right.
Pometer.
Look at that.
Theo.
Columechanimeter.
This is the mother.
Right.
This is the all mother.
All right.
This is the all mother.
Fusis that first, the second word, the first is an interjection.
The second word.
Fusis.
That's the word for nature.
Nature.
Nature.
So all of a sudden Paul, thank Paul.
And when he talks about, wait a minute, creation and all things are created through him and
by him and for him.
Wait a minute.
Where did he get that phrase?
We're about to see.
Let's look a little bit further.
Look on the one, two, three, fourth line down on the second line.
You'll see Urania as the first.
Yeah.
As the first word.
Right.
This is Urania.
So you know where we are.
You're always bombarding me with, with, with stuff about Aphrodite and Adonis and, and,
and Cyprus, you know, which we should go to someday.
Yes.
But, but here's Urania.
So now you know who she is.
Look at that fourth line down.
The first word.
Panto Cratera.
Right.
She is that Panto Crator.
She is that one who, who forges all.
Right.
Yes.
Gorgeous.
Gorgeous.
Notice that she's auto Pator and a Pator.
Oh my God.
Self father and not father.
Yeah.
All of a sudden you're going to notice.
She is.
She is.
Give us the next one.
Love you.
Um, uh, next one.
No, I guess go back, go back to the him.
Oh, there we are.
This is the one I want.
Notice that she is particularly a diamond at the top.
You'll notice potnia.
Right.
That's beautiful.
Right.
She, she is the Panto Technis.
All of a sudden you start smelling, um, uh, Athena and Athena was worshiped in this
guys.
Um, Sonius knows that right.
He stumbled across one of her epithets.
Right.
Um, Perifron.
Oh, that's, look at this.
She's this mistress of this mind.
It's gorgeous.
It's gorgeous.
Just jump down.
Ideas Zoe on the fourth line from the bottom.
Yes.
What this ideas idea.
That's our word for eternal.
The Ion is not eternity.
Jesus did not come to give eternal life.
He didn't never use the phrase eternal life.
He used the phrase Ionic life.
Right.
Look, look what she is here.
She is that eternal life.
She is that eternal life.
I am the way, the truth and the life.
Look at the last, the third, the last line.
Panto.
This is basically right out of Paul, the apostle.
Right.
Except switch because he would have to be stealing it from her.
Yeah.
Yeah.
We're dressing up Jesus as she, because Jesus is borrowing from this tradition.
He is operating the mystery, but he's doing it himself.
Not through her.
Right.
Do you understand?
Of course.
That's why he's arrested with a naked boy.
Right.
Of course.
That's why there's stuff on his face.
Right.
There always is in the right.
Okay.
Look at, uh, we got that, uh, that third to last line.
All things.
Right.
Are made.
Right.
All things are made buying for you.
You alone accomplish these things.
Right.
You are that telos of the mystery.
You are that completion.
Go to the Colossians texts.
Please.
Where's the apostle Paul here?
Come here.
Come here.
You bitter.
Oh, no, it's not that one.
Go down.
No.
Where did she go?
No.
No.
Here's the sound pinks though.
This is the revelation guys.
Look at number 10.
And I, I was in the Pnellma.
I was in the spirit.
Are you in the spirit?
Yeah.
How do you get kicked into the spirit?
Right.
These Angulo are always doing this.
And I heard this great voice as a sound pinks as a trumpet.
And right here, here, take that off.
Here we can delineate corruption from pure.
They're fundamentalists.
They're from both sides of the evangelical or Jewish side who
will walk around with a shohar.
You know, they got some kind of animal horn and a bird.
You see them out protesting in front of Trump too.
Right.
It's a thing.
It's a symbol.
It's that trumpet.
They, they want that.
They're Jericho followers.
And then you know who I'm talking about.
They walk around Jericho and blow the horn and bring down the bad guys.
Right.
And they often confuse that with this.
And that is not what this is.
The corruption is the Hebrew side of it.
It comes through that through the horn.
It's not what this is.
This is a Truscan.
This is a Truscan that thing that they carry around.
It's actually a trumpet.
They can smack you with it too.
Go to the salpings definition.
Salpings.
Look at this.
Salpings.
War trumpet.
And look at what word.
What word it's using.
Hote te iaje salpings.
That iajoz nil is, you know who iajoz is.
Oh yeah.
This is that shout that comes, that bonkik shout through the salpings.
Wow.
Yeah.
And if you'll just jump down.
My mind is blown right now.
That's the chant.
That's the secret chant of the Ellusinian Mysteries.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's the.
It's a war trumpet.
Yeah.
You know what they say?
That Pan destroyed the enemies of his father with his voice by screaming.
By chanting at them.
He destroyed them with his voice.
We're going deep right now.
Yeah.
The next one will show you that the tear sonoi are the ones who carry that thing around.
Right.
It's called the, it's called the Truscan of the tyronian horn.
Yeah.
So isn't that cool?
It's a divination instrument as well.
It's what all the augers are using.
So when you walk up to the Pope.
Nicely.
And you're like, Hey, I like your stick.
And it's based upon it.
It's got, it looks like a conch shell kind of thing.
Guess why that is.
It's the augers.
The augers.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's, it's brilliant.
Next text.
I want, I want Neil.
Look at this.
Harold, give the signal and restrain the crowd and let the piercing tyronian trumpet filled
with human breasts and forth.
It's shrill.
Blair to the people.
Who is this?
And what's the context?
It's Athena.
She's setting up the law court and she's using the tyronian trumpet to do it.
She's using that tyronian tool.
She's that polytechnic God.
Yeah.
Good Neil.
Comment.
What do you think?
Athena holds the demiurgic power of, of, of victory in creation equal to Zeus.
There's no one else besides Athena who holds it.
That's why you see Zeus holding Nike in his hand or Athena holding Nike in her hand.
That's it.
There's only, only two.
And Zeus, by the way, in the Durveni papyrus is called the first and the last.
And it's almost like, is this what Jesus is trying to become?
He's trying to do these Orphic rites so he can be like Zeus and be the son of Saturn.
I'm just saying a lot of this stuff is lining up pretty, pretty, pretty nicely for me.
Yeah.
And it makes you wonder, you know, why does a man want to take on these titles?
If all of these titles are working within the cult and the mystery and he's using that
thing and operation, he's actually performing it.
It puts him into a light that we don't normally get through the Judeo-Christian tradition,
right?
We don't, we just don't see that.
We don't see the right for what it is.
Let's go.
Give me another text.
I got a couple more texts here.
I just want to take a look at it quick.
Yeah.
Yeah.
All things.
Here it is.
Because all things, you know, were made by him in Uranus.
Yeah.
Kind of epitesque.
In Uranus and on the gaze.
Yeah.
The things orata.
The things seen and the things not seen.
Even if they're thrones, right?
We know where those are, right?
Our audience knows what those thrones are.
Or the kuriotetes, the powers.
Yeah.
The archonships, right?
The authorities, all these things, right, are done through him and to him, right?
It's a manifestation into him.
Fusus, that line is exactly what we see in the Orphic hymn to Fusus, to nature.
That Urania.
It's the exact same implication.
Paul is taking very cultic material and is adapting it to his, as if Jesus had stepped
into the place of the one who's, who's in Oystrus.
Yeah.
Speaking of using this, this cultic language and revelation, the sea, Thosala and Hades
and Thanatos, those are three different Orphic deities that you offer hymns in, in the Orphic,
in the Orphic hymns.
And these are, they're giving up their dead and then being cast into the lake of fire
as if they are deities or figures.
And people just read this in church and have no idea what it means.
Right.
So how can they possibly, when they come up with their dominionists and all their theologians,
how can they possibly even begin to decipher this stuff if they don't know the actual context?
I mean, you've been interviewing a ton of experts, right?
And they're all examining if, how important is it that you know where that dirt is,
that you're in that dust?
I mean, what have you seen now?
Cause you know, you can go completely different sides of the argument.
You can just, you can do a lot, a lot of circle jokers, right?
I've seen one translation that says death gave up its dead and death gave up its dead twice.
Like what is, they're just going to ignore that there's two different, the Greek has two different words here.
And they just translate Hades as death and then, and then death as death as well.
And so the context is gone.
The English speaking Christians of, you know, UK and America, they're like little children that are being like sheltered by the reality of what they're actually worshiping and doing.
They have no idea where this stuff comes from.
It's kind of fascinating to even to like witness that.
They don't know what it is because the translation loses all context.
They sit, they sit in darkness, right?
They sit in darkness.
You should clip that what you just said.
I give you permission if you need it.
You should clip that.
It was a perfect statement of watching.
It's funny.
You're right.
It's funny to watch the people and they, they perpetuate like fairy tales.
They're like little traditions and little stories that have nothing to do with what's actually going on.
Right.
Before you move on.
Someone in the crowd who's watching this, if you have a friend who's still a Christian.
Do this as soon as possible.
Tomorrow, tonight, whatever.
Bring up that verse where it talks about Hades in the sea and death, giving up their dead.
Ask them.
Hey, what does this mean to you?
Just ask them.
Just, you'll be amazed at the reply you'll get.
You, it's, you'll probably get a million different answers from a million different people because no one talks about it.
It's as if it doesn't exist.
And I would bet that most pastors wish it wasn't there.
Wish it just, we could just delete that part.
Cause obviously there's some, there's something going on there.
Fantastic.
You're right.
You're right.
And also tell them, hey, I would also tell your friend who's sitting there trying to decide.
Look at Jesus when he's arrested and ask yourself, what's he doing with the naked boy?
Yeah.
What's he doing?
What's that kid doing there?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Cause something, he's doing something with him.
And your own, and your own pastor will tell you, Mark is the shortest gospel because every word matters.
There's no extra information.
There's no extra fluff.
So the fact that Mark would have an extra fluff sentence of, and a naked boy ran off with a
syndrome on his, on his, on his stomach.
No, no, no, no, no, no.
That's there for a reason.
You admit it yourself.
There is no extra information in Mark because it's the shortest gospel.
It's packed with punches.
Every syllable means something.
Well, what does that mean?
Well, that's just extra information.
No, no, no.
You're the one that said it.
You're the one that said every syllable matters in Mark.
That's why it's so short.
Tell us what is Mark 14 telling us?
That's what you have to figure out.
Brilliant.
Another short.
Get, get the, get that last text of there.
I think this is the last one.
Yeah.
And to the angel of the assembly in Laodicea, right?
Write these things.
Um, I just want you to notice that it says leggejo amen.
Oh, there.
So says the amen, the amen, right?
He is the martyrs, the pistols.
Yeah.
He's that witness.
He's that faithful.
He's that alethinos that true.
He's the archer.
What is he the archer of?
What is he the ruler of?
Taste.
Now, what's funny is, um, that thesis is exactly what the same word that is used in the hymn.
Um, he is that builder.
It really means builder.
Yeah.
It really means builder and it's used originally of her.
She's originally of Urania.
Yeah.
That all builder.
Yeah.
That one that brings that power.
Um, and there's a lot of other nail.
There's a lot of other from the hymn.
For example, she's also the salas for the salas for the bringer of that light.
This is from the lightning.
Yeah.
So, um, that cellos is a big part of the cult mystery cult.
There's a mystery of iniquity, right?
Working mystery of Anomia that's already working.
Right.
And once that restrainer is stopped, um, the man of lawlessness can come forward.
Um, it's all mystery operation, uh, miski good stuff, mystery operation.
And I think that's, uh, I think that's all the texts that I have.
Yeah.
Now that's all the texts that I had.
I want, uh, people to see that there's overlap, that there's overlap.
And so one of the benefits of having Neil come then is to say, okay, oh, what do we
save them when we're on that?
We're out there with the scholars.
We're out there with the scholars and we're talking to them.
How can you push this information?
How would you deal with your, um, your audience, Neil, and when you're addressing your audience,
how do you present this information?
Do you present it as, look, um, this is what's here, or do you just kind of, kind of weave
it in?
So what I'm saying is when a professor steps out on the edge with you and you know how
skittish they are, because they don't want to be proven wrong or something, right?
And they're out there in that world and they're trying to explain something and you're going
head-to-head with them.
When you come across something that you know is BS, like you've seen the reality here.
You know the Orphic.
You just said, oh, this is the Orphic, uh, rights, rights, being practiced, the Christians
are doing it.
What do you say to the scholar that doesn't know that level of the text?
Alice never lies.
You go to Alice, because Alice, Alice gives us the linguistics, which never, the linguistics,
linguistics is the roots of everything.
So we go there first, we talk about the linguistics, we talk about Alice, then the sources.
We go right to the, right to the primary sources.
We don't need any, some, some theory from, hold on, let me fix this right quick.
Some theory from some guy in the, in the, in the 19th century, we go straight to the
sources, straight to the third century sources, BCE, second century, be Alexandria, Rhodes,
right to the Greek, right to the Latin, and we pull it up and we put it side by side and
say, here's what they're saying.
They're using the same terminology.
They're using the same chance, using the same drugs.
And then here he is in the New Testament, being using the same way and you're going to
sit there and say, it's, you don't see it.
So we show them.
We put the sources together and there's, there's, there's no playing around with that when we
do that.
That's what we do.
That's what you do.
I've learned that from you.
Like you, when I first met you, you brought up a lot of really mind blowing theories and
not, I shouldn't say theories, but kind of theories, but like at the time with other
theories.
And then he showed, then we went to the text, went to the sources, he's right.
Holy shit.
This is mind blowing stuff.
And you, once you show someone the sources, they can't, they can't deny it.
They can, they can choose to go like this, but like, these are the sources.
The context is, is when we go back to the first century, Greco-Roman world, these are things
that are being done in mystery cults, in Egypt, in Phrygia, in near elusis and Athens, in Rome
actually too.
So these are the things that are happening on the, on the ground throughout the empire
in this time period.
And without that context, you would never know.
We live in a whole completely different world today.
Past the Puritan age and the scientific age of reason, all that, that's ancient, that's
the ancient world.
It's a whole different world that we're not a part of anymore.
So that's something that people need to realize.
I want to ask you while you're here about Hermes, because this epithet that Jesus uses,
when I say Jesus, I mean, when John paints him with this epithet, it's an epithet of
Hermes, and particularly Hermes as the Angelos Theu, as that messenger of God who ends up
having that son relationship with the father, right?
He's the son.
And you could say he's the son of God.
He's called Logos too.
Yeah.
And he's, yes.
And he's transmitting that, right?
Oh, I'm glad you brought that up because Justin Marder admits this.
Justin Marder and his apologia, by the way, what are you apologizing for?
Why do you apologize?
The whole apologia thing.
Justin Marder says, you have a Logos too.
You guys call him Mercury, and then you have Asclepius.
He's also the son of God too, and you guys have all your Logos.
And yeah, and that's important because Mercury, as someone like Philo relates, and Philo's
doing the same thing Justin Marder's doing a century prior to all his Alexandria and
Celtic friends that he's trying to impress.
He's that one Jewish guy that's trying to join the club, and everyone's like, nah,
brah, like, let's get that Yahweh stuff out of here.
And this is true.
He writes about Philo says, but what about the Logos and Mercury and all this stuff?
What about, and he's playing this whole apologetics thing.
And yeah, that's, and so Mercury, Hermes, Angolos, the messenger, he only does what he's
told by Zeus.
He never breaks what Zeus makes him do.
He does exactly what Zeus does, and he comes back and he says, Zeus, I've done it for you.
What else do I want you to do now?
And then he goes over, and Prometheus kind of breaks the law.
So Prometheus and Hermes, you see this demon and angel dichotomy way before Christianity
brings this stuff to light.
But yeah, this is all Celtic imagery, Celtic language.
This is the way of the world in this time period.
Absolutely.
Yeah.
And the fact that he's using, that Jesus is using these epithets and all of this language
that's connected with the mystery, you'd have to be a moron.
I mean, really, I stand back and I look, I look at us and I think, oh my God, we, how
do we not see it?
How do we, how do we somehow fail just with the original texts?
And I'm telling you, this failure is perpetuated century by century by century.
Every time control goes to the church and they are able to manipulate the information,
we get a fairy tale.
Enlightenment and going to those texts ourselves and reaching into those texts brings back
this right.
And this is fearful.
This is a fearful place for the church.
This involves the abuse of children.
Jesus Christ himself comes from an abusive performance, comes from a performance of a
mystery that is centered around child abuse.
You and I would call child abuse.
So either we get into, I mean, when you, come on, let's get into the tough part.
When you're in the temple and they've got you tied up and that priestess has applied that
medicine to your bottom and has put you into a state where you are approaching that sexual
climax and she ejaculates drugs mixed, made by her own body into your mouth and then proceeds
to give you the cure that'll bring you back.
And remember, you're in a psychotic state.
You're in a psychotic state.
You're in that demonic influence, right?
You're under that influence.
At that point, you die and come back sometime thereafter, thankfully, because of it.
If this priestess is one of the dancers at Delos, right, she is very much underage.
She is very much underage and this makes everybody uncomfortable to which I say Athena, you should be
uncomfortable.
Athena, that virgin that you protect is that same age group.
There's one phrase in the hymn tonight.
The most important that I didn't, I didn't read to you.
Let me just read to you now.
She is the Medua.
She is the Medusa in the ether, in the water, yeah, everywhere.
She is that force.
So again, you would get there to that spring, to that great pure spring.
You would get there under these circumstances so much so that in this initiation, you only
have to do it once on a person, once on a person.
Once you've had that world open and your eyes are open and you come back from it through
resurrection, you never go back.
You can't.
You've been born again.
You've been born again.
So I don't know, your thoughts, observations on the right.
Apolaus relates this when he says that when he got initiated into Isis and Osiris, he was
dipped in the water seven times because of the Pythagorean method.
That's what he says.
He specifically says in the Pythagorean sense, dipped seven times.
And so you had this idea and also in the text in the baptism scene where when he comes out
of the water, the heavens open up.
Now, you might, someone might say, well, that's because he's the son of God, but the text to
me is relating a more of a initiation message.
This was an initiation that this person had an experience.
The heavens opened up.
So it makes sense on a different level than what most people are reading when they're
just reading it.
Who don't have ears to hear if that makes sense.
The initiated ear reads this passage and goes, I know what they're doing.
He got initiated all right.
He took the right.
He drank the milk.
He took the soma.
So you get what I was getting at.
Bacchus entered, this entered him at that state.
That's what that initiation is.
Back to Apileus dipping his head seven times and coming up out of the water.
And that's, that's that experience.
That's that awakening.
That's the, those with ears to hear.
That's, that's the initiation process.
And correct me if I'm wrong, Neil, but in Apileus there, that whole process only came about
because she was able to transform him from an ass and back into a human form through
the rose, right?
Isis does it through the rose.
If you're there in the right and you are entering the orgasmos and you fall into death and are
brought back with her image.
You can't, you can't ever become an ass again because you know, right?
Imagine if you were able, just for a second, if we were able to do something quantum, right?
Put you in some kind of state so that you could see the dimension that is beyond the
black holes that are in our universe.
And you could see that we are a reflection of that.
Imagine if you could make that bridge and then come back.
You would never, you'd never be the same.
You'd never, right?
Ovid writes about this, but he gives you the opposite.
The opposite of that coin is this.
King Midas, who doesn't have ears to hear, wants to be initiated.
He's granted the golden touch, right?
Bacchus gives him what he wants, but he doesn't, he can't handle it.
He wants to be saved from his weaknesses, from his spiritual weaknesses, right?
He doesn't want this golden touch anymore.
So what is he?
He's told to go and dip yourself into the Hebrews, the same river where Orpheus just
died a couple of chapters before where he bled to death in this water.
Here goes King Midas, dips into the water and he's walking back.
He cured him, cured his golden touch.
Okay, cool.
But as he's walking back, he sees Pan and Apollo, and they're having a violin
competition who sounds better than the violin.
And they say, hey, hey, King Midas, come here.
Let's let you be the judge.
And he had a terrible, he didn't have ears to hear.
Let's just say that.
He didn't know how to judge this competition.
And Apollo looks at him and goes, you don't know what the hell you're talking about.
So as soon as he's told that he doesn't have ears to hear, he gets ass ears,
grow out of his head.
Ass ears.
It's the opposite of Apolaus.
Instead of becoming human from becoming an ass and getting salvation through ISIS,
it's the opposite effect.
He starts to grow ass ears because he doesn't have ears to hear and it backfires on him.
Which makes me wonder why Jesus has that ass head in his earliest crucifixion depiction, right?
They show him on the cross.
You're so right.
He's the ass.
Yeah.
The only reason I recognize that symbol is because the guys like Nicander, who is this pharmacologist,
preacher, not preacher, prophet, priest at an oracle who does this.
I mean, he's actually one of these guys who does this and writes about it.
So, yeah, how can we possibly deny the context of what's going on?
There's a guy that ejaculates on Crete.
He ejaculates scorpion and snake venom.
He ejaculates it.
You can get it out of him.
Yeah.
And nobody stops and says, wait a minute.
What?
And which scorpions are they talking about?
Why is he doing this?
Right?
People miss the context.
That asses ears, by the way.
Nicander, this crazy prophet, priest, pharmacologist, says that he takes his own name and he puts
his name in each letter in the first word of the line and spells out Nicander.
Right?
And in these verses, he talks about the ass that is given the burden of the deep cess,
the snake that brings that thirst.
When Jesus says he has the seven stars in his hand, one of those stars, because he tells you,
right, they give it away in the text.
He says, those are the Angeloid.
Right?
Those are the Angeloid.
So right away you say, oh, wait a minute.
These are the ones that are standing in front of that throne.
Right?
And what do they do in front of that throne?
They cast that image.
They bring that image.
And the dipsass is one of them.
It takes all seven in order to induce the death state.
It takes all seven.
Isn't that how the hell did they figure out that you could combine seven different native
venoms?
You could put them on in a solution and expose them to the blood vessels of your colon and
rectum and induce this mental state that if you combine it with the orgasm,
ends up kicking you into zone that everybody else comes back from and says their life has
been changed, that they've seen their eyes are open.
There's a reason when the devil offered it.
Right?
Because he's guarding it.
He's guarding that tree.
There's a reason when he offered it, he's like, no, no, he's full of it.
God's full of it.
He just doesn't want you to open your eyes and to be like he is.
Right?
And then what happens?
They get naked.
There's no preacher on the planet that can explain why Eve is getting naked.
And their attempts to do so are so lame and pathetic.
They're so lame and pathetic.
What's happening?
When her eyes are open, she realizes, oh, no.
Here comes Jehovah and I'm totally nude with ooze all over me.
And I've been places that nobody's gone before.
That explosive orgasm, that explosive orgasm is the rife.
That's where you go when you die.
Right?
And that putting that onto somebody, casting that mystery changes everything around you.
It changes your perception.
The experience of the initiates of the Ellisonian mysteries.
They held those when they held that ceremony.
Anybody who took part in the mysteries, if you can find me a source that says the opposite
of what I'm about to say, I'll give you a million dollars because it doesn't exist.
There is not one source that ever said somebody came out of this unsatisfied or their life
didn't change.
But specifically, it's really strange.
Specifically, it's about losing the fear of death.
For whatever reason, the initiates, they go through the mysteries in Ellusis.
They come out no more for your death.
Very strange.
I'll give you an example.
There were some servants that were sent over by the King of India to meet and delegate with Augustus.
Augustus was just so powerful that the world was all bowing to him.
Parthia gave him all the standards back that they took from Crassus.
He was the man.
He was the King.
He was the August one.
Never been done before.
He surpassed Alexander.
So King Porus, ironically, the same name as the King that Alexander meant.
Different King Porus.
He sends him a bunch of delegates.
And out of the seven that he sends, three of them make it.
The rest of them die on the way there.
They bring them all these presents.
They bring them exotic cats and lions and snakes.
And one of the travelers asked Augustus, I want to go to the famous Ellusinian Mysteries
to get initiated.
Augustus was like, I've already been there.
I've been initiated.
I'll do it again.
Let's go.
Augustus has seven initiations from different cults all over the Empire.
He's down.
He says, all right, I'll take you there.
It's wintertime.
They're closed, but I'm the August one.
So we could go.
So they go there.
They open it up just for them.
Started a whole new initiations off season.
This Indian Indian character is Brahmin gets initiated when he came out.
You know what his reaction was?
He jumped into a fire and killed himself because he said, I'm done.
My life is complete.
That was that was his reaction from the Mysteries.
He was so blown away by what he saw that he jumped into a fire and killed himself and
ended his life because he was complete and nothing else to live for.
That's what happens.
And so when Jesus says, I thirst.
And like again, with Mark 14 with a naked boy, there's no extra information in these
texts.
There's no extra fluff.
Those words are there for a reason.
They're sending a signal to the reader.
If you know about the Mysteries, you know what this means.
Why?
Why is someone thirsting?
What does that mean?
You know.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Beautiful.
Beautiful.
And we all say, oh, it's Hebrew llama.
No, it's not.
It's actually Greek magica.
Yeah.
It's their magic that's going on.
I love it.
I love it.
Neil, it's an honor.
It's an honor.
I'm going to give you the last word, but I want everybody to make sure that
you are following in whatever way possible Neil's journey and the people that he is interviewing.
It's makes for an interesting.
I usually get upset when we talk about his episodes, not with him, but with the responses.
And there's coming a day.
I'm going to try to be prophetic here, but there's coming a day when Neil will realize
if he hasn't already that he's gone beyond that he's in the into the thick now.
And the people back there, they've really done that.
Let me just say this.
I'm going to ask this last question, let you have it and then we'll be done.
Don't how do you look at these people who are following the fairy tale?
Do you look at them with pity?
Do you look at them with contempt?
Do you look at them as people that we need to shake and say, look, this is what you're
missing?
How do you look at these people who follows that Christian fairy tale?
It's interesting because I understand them.
I understand where they're coming from.
I understand what's on their shoulders, the weight.
They're not like me where they can just go off and just quote and start saying stuff
that I say.
So instead of being mad or trying to change them, I take it on myself that it's my duty
to bring this information and I'll talk to them and I'll challenge them on certain things.
And I understand why some of these people are the way they are.
I get it.
So it's on me.
I put it on myself to be the one to go forth with this information because this channel
right here, St. Tantic Initiation, Lady Babylon, this is a one in a million.
This is the most unique, the most in the league of its own channel.
The information here, you're not going to get anywhere else and it's free.
Nothing better than this.
I'm way more honored to be on a show like this than I am to interview some of these Ivy League
professors.
I mean that.
I mean that.
I'll say that a hundred times.
You could not say anything nicer than that.
I really appreciate that, Neil.
I think if you were sitting around with Professor Rock from Boston University, he took me over
there to Harvard Newsly.
Right?
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's an honor.
It's an honor.
Yeah.
It's an honor.
It's an honor.
And everyone else see the honor that is, that is the Gnostic Informant.
You have just attained, you have just attained Trinosis.
Hail Satan, everyone.
Hail Satan, everyone.
