One more round.
Why did you ever change your name?
Because you were like a wave
On the ocean
Wild and free you came
And you were like a storm
Coming out of mountains
Never to be tamed
All the way
Why did you ever change your name?
All the way
Why did you ever change your name?
Welcome back to the final
Lady Babylon Bible Studies
Part of the series
This is the final episode, people
I am so happy to have you here tonight
And I am so grateful for your attention
And your time
We've got quite a finale episode coming
Let me just tell you what we're going to do
Tonight we're going to walk you up
Right up to Jesus Christ
And we're going to look right into Jesus Christ
Without any covering
Tonight we get to see what's on the under
After that we will have our jury
And you, you congregation of Satan
You will be the ones to decide
We'll take a poll
The majority is the decision of decay
The decision of justice
And then after that
I will say a few words of appreciation
And tell you what's coming
There's a little twist
Something's coming
Everything is coming
Tonight on Lady Babylon
As the space time ship warms up tonight
And we get transported to that place
I want to take you to the encoded reality
I'm going to show you through Chewie's magic
I'm going to show you the images and the ideas
That brand this idolatry
I'm going to show you in silence
I'm going to show you through Chewie's magic
I'm going to show you through Chewie's magic
I'm going to show you through Chewie's magic
I'm going to show you through Chewie's magic
I'm going to show you through Chewie's magic
I'm going to show you through Chewie's magic
I'm going to show you through Chewie's magic
I'm going to show you through Chewie's magic
I'm going to show you through Chewie's magic
I'm going to show you through Chewie's magic
I'm going to show you through Chewie's magic
I'm going to show you through Chewie's magic
I'm going to show you through Chewie's magic
I'm going to show you through Chewie's magic
I'm going to show you through Chewie's magic
I'm going to show you through Chewie's magic
I'm going to show you through Chewie's magic
I'm going to show you through Chewie's magic
I'm going to show you through Chewie's magic
I'm going to show you through Chewie's magic
I'm going to show you through Chewie's magic
I'm going to show you through Chewie's magic
Third
That's who we bring tonight. We bring Takita
That's who we bring tonight. We bring Takita
Silence. We bring Shi who gave out those ordinances
Silence. We bring Shi who gave out those ordinances
Nunma talk about Ejeria. She will be the one to cleanse
ally cleanl this temple tonight
Tonight
you this very sacred task. I want you to please hold on, be mature, ships here. In other words,
everybody out, out, out. We're going to take you right to that place where Jesus is there,
completely stripped of every covering. I want you to look. I want you to look as scientists. I want
you to look as people who have inherited the culture of Christianity. I want you to look as
people who have inherited the movements of the monists. I want you to look. I want you to focus
on Jesus laid bare. Chewie, hit it. Let's go to our first star system. Everybody, everybody out of
the ship. Here it is. Here it is. What are we going to talk about tonight? This is a long, long
hymn. I'm not, I'm going to read you most of it. Read you most of it. But I want you to realize
before we get, wait, what? Did he say there's hymns? Yeah, there's hymns. Can you see here the singing
in the background? Yeah, it's nice, isn't it? Have I not, have I not given you the best dates on the
planet? Have I not taken you to the finest restaurants? Have we not dined with the finest
people of history? Yes, we have. We've drunk this wine together, together, congregation of Satan,
together. And for that, I thank you. I thank you. I'm thanking early. Here, let's look. What's at the
top, chief? What's that? Drugs? You want the drugs here? Yeah. Okay, right. So where'd we get off?
Where'd we get off? We got off with D'Ameter. And here we're going to get some drugs. Look at the
top. Sumia Masturica. Everybody grab your Storax. Everybody grab your, can you smell it? Oh, yeah.
Love it. Here we go. Who we, who are we honoring? Deo. Deo, who is Deo? The Pom-Meter.
Thea. Shoot. Wait, can you say that again? Pom-Meter. Thea. She is the all mother.
Wait a minute. I thought, didn't you? Yeah, I did. I said, you're looking. Ready? Just keep
your eyes open, people. Get out. Get out. Everybody out of the, out of the capsule. Here we go. Semne
D'Ameter. Kuro trofe. What does she do? She nourishes the kuros. She nourishes that child.
That child. Come to me, my sheepies. Not yet. Not yet.
This is for the great mother. Are you ready? I want you to notice that, let's go to the next
slide. Next, next slide. Boom. I want you to notice she is Deo. Does everybody see this? I want you
to see this goddess. I want you to see her. Who is she? Did you know she's the foundation for God?
Wait, what? Foundation for God. Looking you right in the face, right through that Delta.
What do we call? What do we call the guy who's the head? What do we call the guy in the clouds? What
do we call him? Dios. We call him that God. Deo. Let's go to the next one, please. Go to the next
one. Look at here, people. This is that August D'Ameter. This is that Augusta. This is that Augusta.
Holy, can you feel the, you know what that root is in Semne there? That's from Saba. That's right
out of grace. Oh, God, can you feel it? Can you feel the Bronze Age? You didn't think we were going
as far back, did you? We dragged Jesus with us. Come on, Jesus. Let's go. You're so slow. Go, Jesus.
Where's my whip? Go, Jesus. Go. Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ.
Let's go. You know, that's therapy. That's therapy. It is. You got to wrangle the dead, people. What
did you think? What did you think I was going to call it? Satanic initiation without wrangling the
dead without throwing in necromancy? You've seen more. You've seen more ghosts than anyone.
Let's get to the next one. Love it. We love this stuff. It's dirty, dirty, dirty, good,
like good dirty. Look at this, people. Who is she? Who is the D'Ameter? I just wanted my
Greek students to see, look at the vowels and what they're doing. D'Ameteran. Oh, isn't that nice?
D'Amateras. Wait a minute. What? Oh, yeah. You can tune that vowel however you want, baby.
You can tune it. Plug it in however you want. Boom. What are we hearing out here? D'Amater.
Oh, God. Let's go back up. Next one. Here we go. Ooh. Ooh. That's that all mother people. I just
want you to see. I want you to see it's the all mother. Why is he doing this? I thought Jesus was
yeah. Yeah. Keep going. It's okay. Don't worry. You'll be dizzy at first,
but it'll wear off and you'll get your sea legs. Let's go.
We're back on. That was two of them. Did you blast them both? I hope you got them both,
okay. Here we go. This is the all mother, right? It's okay. That's a good one. Oh, wait. Feed this
one, baby. Who is she? She is the one who rejoices in peace. She is the bringer of peace. Did you
know that? Did you know that? Did somebody smell a Christian flatus? I smell Christian flatus in here.
Flatus. Yes, I do. I smell the bringer of peace. I smell the bringer of peace.
That's fantastic. Let's go to the next one. I just want you. I'm lifting it right out of the
hymns, people. This is what you're hearing here with me. Isn't this nice? Love it. Love the beat.
Let's keep it going. Let's keep it going. Well, look what's right at the front. Look what you knew
I was going to enjoy this, didn't you? What is that? Oh, that's desire. You smell desire.
We're going to go into some drugs tonight just to give you the smell of it when your face is
right in there. When it's right in that presence. Oh, God. Look, what is she? What is she? This goddess
that I we're introducing ourselves to, we're all at the right for. What is she? Oh, she carries
desire. I'm starting. Okay. I think I know where I am now. I'm waking up a little bit. She is gorgeous.
She is gorgeous. She's the treptera. The treptera of everyone. Yes. Treptera. Please,
Chewie, bring us up the next one to show us. What's a treptera? A treptera is a feeder?
A feeder. It comes from the root for nourish. It comes from the root for nourish. We're already
going to feed. We're already going to nourish because we're the old mother. You mean this is the
dayo behind Jova? Jovayahu? Yes. Yes. This is what Jovayahu was trying to do.
You're with me in the right. Let's see what she's like. Shall we see what she's like? You want
to see her? You want to see her? I'm bringing her. Jesus. Come on. Let's do it. Let's do it. Next one.
Tell me, Jesus, what kind of qualification? Peter. Peter sitting here. Look at this, people.
Let me set the scene for you. Jesus and Peter. Remember, he's one of the 12 boys that Jesus
kind of secrets away from the parents and is like, oh, you know, here we go. Lay stays. Look at
this. Are you ready? He says to him a third time. Yeah. Simon, son of John. Do you love me?
Filesme? They chose. They chose one with a little bit of creep in it. Take it down.
A little bit of creep. Now, C.S. Lewis. Oh, I am so glad. I've been waiting for this one for a long
time. C.S. Lewis, who out there? Who out there is a fan of C.S. Lewis? Because you need to come to the
front. You need to come to the front and see this. C.S. Lewis, I hear you wrote. I hear you wrote a
book about the four loves. A book called The Four Loves or Some Such Nonsense. Tell me, did you try
to change what was in the text? Oh, God. If you have read C.S. Lewis's Four Loves in Greek, he's
talking about the Greek words for love and he so messes it up. He bends it and contorts it to fit
within a scheme that you who are sucking the fumes of the fairy tale can digest.
C.S. Lewis. Do you know where C.S. Lewis is? C.S. Lewis is in the bowels of a whale that lives in
the abyss. He is continuously excreted as fecal matter into the darkness and then
re-consumed to be digested and excreted again. This is C.S. Lewis. You want your seat with him?
You want your seat with him? I'll show you. Love it. Love it. Let's go. Next one. Jesus.
Strip down. Okay. Are you guys ready? We're going to see Jesus strip, totally strip.
He says to Simon, do you love me? He picked the one, Philaeus. He picked the one that's heavy,
heavy, heavy, affection in a sexual way. It's really weird. It's really weird. He could have picked
any of the others and it wouldn't have been quite as damaging as this. I mean, we talk about kisses
on this. Do you give kisses? I give kisses. Do you give kisses intense? Right? I give kisses
intense. This is the love that Jesus is using. You love me, buddy? You love me, my little guy?
And Peter, what happens? He says, Peter gets mad. Peter gets mad because he's hurt. He's hurt.
He's elpated and he's hurt and he says, listen, listen. All right? Do you love me?
Peter's pissed and he says, you, you know, you darn well know it. You perceive it with your
noggin, Jesus, that I feel owe you. And what does Jesus say? What does Jesus say at this critical
moment? He says exactly, exactly what the dameter must say. He says, Bosque, feed him. Feed my little
sheepies. Feed my little sheepies. Look at the word probatiamu. Feed my little sheepkins.
You're in charge. Go out of the next one. Do you know what she is? She is spermia.
She is spermia. Do you see the word sperm? You should. You should. That's a biological term,
by the way, people. You talk about spermicides, for example, prophylactics that are physical barriers
to the sperm. Right? Right? She is the spermia. Wait a minute. Did you say that right? Yeah, wait,
wait, is he should have been, no, it's she. She is spermia. How do you translate that?
How do you translate that? She's the wand of the seed. Did you know there was such thing as female
seed? Did you know? Did you know? How'd you think we'd get bred? How'd you think we'd get bred?
Oh, wow. It's through the dameter. Yes. Yes. Now, hang on. Hang on. The skirt is only so high,
and we're pushing it up. We're pushing up the historical skirt of Jesus Christ. Okay. Are you
ready? Let's keep, let's go back to the next one. Hit it. Okay. Now, look, everybody, while you're
standing here, I want to take us from this entryway to the party, and I want to go straight in. I want
to head to the temple. Everybody, up the hill, let's go to the temple, and you're going to hear
something. You're going to hear something from this ghost that I found as we walk along the way. His
name is Seirach. Seirach. Put it out. Put it out, you bonehead. Do you know what this guy did? Take
it down. Take it down. This is, this is in your Bible. It's in your Bible. Yeah. And there's,
it's, you know, the Greeks and Romans, this said the stuff about the Septuagint, this fairy tale,
about it being, because they were sticklers, right? They were sticklers. They'd been quoting
primary sources for years. They knew how this thing, this museum thing worked. So they're saying,
look, this idea that the Septuagint is a translation, that's BS. You know, your letter of
Aristate, that stuff is not legit. And everybody knows it's not legit. Well, we have one of those
people who was trying to appropriate to create Judaism, right? Because Judaism had lost its
language, right? It had been flooded with the Greek. So in an attempt, they used the Greek to try
to re, to try to recreate a past that you can accept that will justify what we do as a group.
Fantastic. Fantastic. And what did they do? This one named Seraph, he came in, he, he wrote this,
this introduction to a work where he says, he's like, Oh, I know, I know, it's so hard to convey
in the translation, these words, he's got no text, he's got nothing. He's got nothing. And he writes
this phony, you can read something, I encourage you all, all of you must learn Seraph, first,
first, just open it up to the beginning when he's apologizing. And you'll see somebody who is
attempting to appropriate the Romans and Greeks caught it, right? They caught it. They're at,
they're at 500,000, baby. The Greeks are at 500,000. The Hebrew language, it's at six, seven,
thousand, maybe eight. I've seen some people estimate 9000 unique words. Do you think they're
going to have half of this technical terminology? No, they don't. They don't. But they have to
create a story to support the supremacy of whatever it is that their national interests are. So
it's almost like the scholarship is attacked. The sources are attacked. And the Greeks and the
Romans, they respond, we're here. That was a long story. But let's bring in Seraph. And let's ask him,
let's put him through some questions. Tell me, buddy, where did you get your stuff from? Were
your sources from the Bronze Age? When Moses was living? No, they weren't, they were contemporary,
Sophia. Isn't that nice? Isn't that nice? It's glorious. It's glorious. Yeah, this is Sophia,
we're talking about. What does she do? What does she do? She brings you her soul. She brings you
her soul to show it, to show it in the middle of the people. What praise, what praise for her soul,
the soul of Sophia. Are you there? Are you there? Do you feel like you've been there?
Do you feel like you've seen her? Remember, we're still with Dameter. We're still with Dameter. We
didn't leave our event. Let's go to the next one. Boom. Oh, people. Whoops. Yeah, I'm so, what does
Sophia do? Look, people, and the native Greek here is so overpowering. It's just the technical
capacity is you can't, people. You got to go out in the desert with a bunch of crazy monks. And you
got to then take your Greek text and try to deconstruct a Hebrew out of it. But the problem is,
again, 8,000 words doesn't cut it. So the text ends up sounding like you're deficient. Deficient
somehow. Yeah, straight up, straight up deficient, people. Look at the text. Look at the Greek. Oh,
God, don't you love philology? You could, oh, you could, you could just snuggle up right up next to
philology and say, honey, I love you so much. Look at this. What is going on? Remember the
skin's gland? You remember the tent where we were? Does that, does anybody, look,
did anybody come back from that thing and wake up and remember that skin's gland from the
scanate? What is, what does she do? Sophia does this on the high, on the high. She does it in
those high places. You know what I'm talking about. A few ladies, a few menads, you know what I'm
talking about. Sophia's out there. She's the leader of the chorus. Isn't that nice? The leader of the
chorus up in the heights. That's why Jehovah is always pissed off saying, destroy all that stuff on
the heights. I'm going to be Mr. Hoopsie Stoss. Right? And he takes over. Damater says, no, I don't
think so. Yahoo. Take a hike. Watch this. Oh, where's your throne, Sophia? Where's your throne,
Damater? It's in a pillar of cloud. It's in a pillar of clouds,
pillar of clouds. Now, for those of you who follow the fairy tale, who are on that pathway,
right? For those of you, this is when there's a giant,
who comes from the space down to the planet. Sometimes it's a who, a fire, a burst of fire,
a whirlwind. Oh, yes. And sometimes it's a cloud. And inside that is the shyna glory beaming out.
And we're in there. We've got our things on our chest. They got a rope on our legs so they can
pull us out if we're dead. Oh, voice of God. Bunch of droggies. Yes. And those of you with ears to
hear, understand the thronos and what it is. My throne says, Sophia is in a pillar of smoke.
My, my throne is a pillar of smoke. You want to know what they were doing there?
Wake up. Wake up from the fairy tale. Get to the anthropology. Do you see the rights that are going
on? How do you think you're going to get to that oracle without drugs? I'm going to show you the
text. Right now, I'm going to lead you right there. So forget about it. Let's just go every,
up the hill. We're going, going to see Demeter right now. I don't care if you guys are ready or
not. Let's go. Go back to Sophia. Sophia, can you give us any more advice? Yeah, Sophia says,
look, I was alone. I was the one encircling Uranus. Oh, we had that circuit down. That was me, says
Sophia. And you know what I do? Listen to this. Jesus Christ, Jesus Christ, open your ears.
She walks in the depths of the abyss. Wait a minute. You wanted to see her, didn't you? You
wanted to see the Korah. You wanted to see her. Didn't you want to find the morning star? Jesus,
it's standing here without clothing. Are you ready? Let's focus in. Let's take it in. Look,
let's get close. Are you ready? Give me the, go ahead. Give me the next one, Chewie.
In that skeiné. In that holy skeiné. Do you know what our tent is? It's a holy place. All right.
And when we go in there, who do we have? I have you and you have me. Yeah. Yeah. And
if you're of the persuasion of Heracles, you can substitute her for him. Substitute. But,
you have to castrate. And if you don't, that angel will come after you. Yes. Yes. Okay. I think
I'm there. I think I'm there. Is everybody on the throne? Is everybody on the throne? Do we have
the stars? Do we have the stars in our hand? In that holy, holy tent, what does she do? She performs
her service. She performs her service right in front. Right in front of us. Right in front. Do
you see Sophia performing her service right in front of us? This is that working that brings us
the mystery. This is that working that brings us the mystery. Chewie, back to the text.
Please. Okay. One more. One more. What, what am I smelling and breathing people? It's all over
your clothes. Right? Snappy, you got your clothes are starting to, you're getting stuff on them.
What is that stuff? What is that stuff? What is that stuff? Look at this. What is that?
What are they using these crazy people? This is a shrub. It's guess to be something of a
Cassia sort. Okay. Little thorny shrub thing. And what's next? Another one? Another shrub.
Right? What is she going to do? What is Sophia going to do? She's going to give off,
all Smith, a perfume, a fragrance, a fragrance. Are you in the tent with me? Yes, dear. I'm with you
in the tent. May I say that you are giving off a lovely fragrance, a lovely fragrance. Is everybody
there? Don't watch out. Get your splash guard on for the myrrh. Oh, you're going to love it. You're
going to love it. That's Smirna though. It's going to make you look funny. Let's go. Atraskins love
this stuff, by the way. What else do they, what else are these freaks using? Look at the second
line. Who else had the chosen Smirna? Who else had the chosen? Who else has the chosen Smirna?
Who has the globs of stuff on his face when he's all confused and stoned at four a.m. in a garden
with a naked boy? Who else has that? Who else has that? That's what he's got on his face. Do you
know why? I'm going to show you. I'm going to show you. Let's go. Hang on. I just want you to see.
A couple more plants. These are all resinists, producers of resins. Calbane, right? Onyx,
Stakte. These are all resin slash drug producing plants. And what is happening in the very bottom?
Look, there's an op-ness. An op-ness. You mean in the Bible it talks about the op-ness? Yes. Yes.
What is that? You remember that cloud? This is vaporization or fumigation. What do you do in
a skein, eh? Yeah. You breathe the vapors. You breathe those fragrant vapors. That is how we
transit. That's how we transit. Does everybody know where you are? Does everybody know? Where is
Jesus? Don't lose sight of Jesus while we transit through the vapors. Go. Go. He's real. Yeah. He's
real. Look at this. Smurna. I just want you to see. Okay. It's the gum of the Arabian tree,
right? Smurna. But keep looking down. Look, it's used as an unguent or a sav, right? It's used as
a sav. Also used as an incense. I just want you to see. Take it down. I just want you to see the
level of diversity that we've got going on here. You can take these drugs and you can turn them
into stuff. You can put all over your skin. You can put all over your skin. You can put on different
parts of your body. You can put on different parts. You can buy the form that will vaporize that you
can sit. Ah, you can breathe it in. Love it. Love it. Do you see what we're doing here in the world
setting up the mystery? Do you see this is where Judaism and Christianity come from? From the
Da Maitre. So just relax for a minute. It's going to get uncomfortable here. I'm going to turn up
the tweaking. We're going to transit. It's going to make people uncomfortable. Go to the next one,
please. Boom. Stakhti. Yeah, look, oil of myrrh, specifically oil of myrrh. And I just want you
to see at the bottom. Hey, Tom, friend on Stakhti, right? What is this thing governed? What does it
do? Remember, a lot of these oils are involved in your mental state. That's all I want you to
notice. I want you to notice these things can change. They can transform in a healing way. You
didn't think we're going to come here without ending up at a giant hospital. Did you full of
healing people? It's the way things are, right? Next one. Go to the next one. Boom. Look at this.
What is your op-ness? I just wanted you to see I'm not making this up, people. I'm not keyboard
I'm not making it up. I want you to see. Look at number three. It can be just a poultice. It can
be just a poultice, but properly, it's a moist vapor or steam. Moist vapor or steam. So you see
how the drugs work. They work, you know, there's different preparations that you can use. You're
not going to take the one in the rectum that you're going to take in wine, right? No, because those
are two different portals. Yes. Yes. The ones that go there don't work when they go in there.
Yes. It's very, come on, people. It's a civilization. Don't you love it? Look at the bottom. Spinther
and Apowgasma. Oh, what is that? Spinther. That's the spark of the lightning, baby. Oh,
really? Yeah. You know that purple bolt? It's the spark. How are we going to get there? In our fumes.
In our fumes. Don't worry. It's what the fumes are for. Just trust. What is this Apowgasma? Go to
the next one. What is this? Let's just pick this up quickly. Look. Oh, radiance. Radiance
from a luminous body. Do you have a luminous body? Do you have a luminous body? Look at your dog
stuff sitting there. Oh, God, that feels good. Luminous body. That's what we need. We need to
get to that luminous body. Is everybody, is anybody else seeing this? It's kind of, I don't know,
it's getting me going. Next one in an academic kind of way. It's, you know, turning me on metaphorically.
Smurnecidrota. What is that? That, people. Look, I just want to introduce you. Look, we happen to
be in a back alley now. We're not quite to the temple yet, but I want you to see. Look, somebody
buys some hudrota smurnec. Just trust me. Just do this. Do this. And you're going to find it with
the woman who's called the lover of tears. Lover of tears. You mean Mary the Magdal? The maga
is going to be the one to sell me that? Yes. Yes. Oh, isn't that nice? I love that. I love that. How
old is Mary, by the way? I don't think she's as old as you think she is. This is that sweat. You
know what Jesus has on his face? Jesus, come here. Why is your hudros? Why does it look like
what it looks like? What have you been doing? Let's see. You can look at a person's face and
see what they've been doing. Did I miss it? There's this one. Yeah. So here's Jesus
in the throes of his stonedness, right? And who are we seeing? We're seeing Jesus stoned
right here. He's right in that agonia. He's right in that agonia. And he is stretched out.
He is stretched out in that phase. And what is he doing? He's doing what we all do.
He is sending that voice to the daimones, to the powers. He's praying. And what is he? Oh,
not like that kind of prayer. No, no, no. This is a prayer in the grips of the agonia that you get
from the dipsass, right? Because we know that's what your drug is, Jesus, isn't it?
What's wrong with your hudros, Jesus? It looks like you got clotted blood
on your face. He came out of this. Remember, I told you, take it down. I told you there were
two routes that we could take to daimete. I told you, I told you, we can go the route
with the medwa or we can substitute Addis. It's up to you. Heracles chose Addis. That was his
direction. All those temples set up. Get your mind out of the myth. I'm not talking mythology.
The temples that are set up in honor of Heracles and his mystery,
yeah, only boys, only boys with one exception. Do you know who the one exception is? Who's the
one person they let in? Who's not a boy? It's that other option. It's the medwa. She's the one who
produces it. And you say, why is she special? Why is the daimete special? Why is the virgin special?
What does she have? What does she have? Let's see. And in order to do so, we've got to strip Jesus.
We've got to take him. We've got to take his clothes off. Jesus, I'm sorry. You're going to have to
take your clothes off in the last episode. You knew that I would do this. Let's go. Let's go.
Resume. Yeah, I want to give you a little bit more. I want to give you a little bit more of the drugs.
And I just want to set up our skeiné a little bit. And this is from the ion. Look, the youth
reverently built the brown tent on pillars. Okay, he's setting up our skeiné without walls. Look,
we're all like kind of voyeurs watching him from a distance. What's he going to do? What's this guy
going to do? He's taking good care of the rays of the sun, setting it neither towards the middle
beams of heat, nor in turn towards the any. Okay, he's just get through your tent making.
He measured the length of 100 feet. Seriously, having the whole area of tent down. Oh, God,
what did he do? He sent out people to Delphi. You know, from the treasuries, he took sacred
tapestries. Okay, now we're getting this is kind of cool watch and shadowed over the tent of wonder
for men to see. First, overhead, he spread out wings of cloth, a dedication of the sun of Zeus,
which Heracles brought from the Amazons, the spoils. All right. Oh, you mean this dude is out
raiding the Amazonian tribes? Yeah, he is. He is. He ends up a sex slave of one of their queens.
He thought he was better than he was. And he ends up a sex slave. You know what happens to sex slaves?
Yeah, it's a form of punishment. But he ends up with quite a fondness for the lingerie.
Quite a fondness for the lingerie. So you got to give it to him there. He's got a he's got a sense
of where he's going. You know what I mean? And he says here, these pictures were woven in it. Are
you ready? Heaven gathering the stars in the circle of sky. Does that sound like a Bronze Age thing?
It should. This is Saturnalia. What do we worship? Worship the sun. The sun. This is us. This is us.
These pictures. What's there? The sun was driving his horses to the last flare drawing on the lights
of evening. Dark robes night was shaking her two horse chariot by means of the
yoke pair and stars. Tended her. Played hasten through the middle sky with the Rhine. Okay.
Can you see what she's bringing? You see Kuryanukta. You see that form of her. Look at that black
night. I just want to remind people. You can take that down to you. I just want to remind people
that in the course of this experience that we've had, we determined. We cracked. We cracked the
code. Yeah. We cracked the code. And for a brief moment, we saw Pseudo Nix, right? The she who was
foretold would come. She. She. Wait a minute. What is this before? Well, we're talking with
Euripides. This is, you know, hundreds of years before Jesus and the boys from Galilee picked up
and took the reins, took the reins of the mystery, right? These are their predecessors. Let's go back.
Let's go back to that same, that next. Yep. I just want to make sure I missed at the bottom.
Yeah. Oh, look at the bottom. There's some snaky coils. What's involved in our tent? You're always
seeing serpents. Get used to it. Get used to seeing serpents. If you're not seeing serpents,
you're not in a healing cult. You're not in a healing cult. Why is that? It's because the drugs
people. I'm going to show you the text so you know. Let's see him, Jesus. I want to see everything.
I want to see everything that you've got. Chewie, we're going to have to go quick because we've got
a lot to cover. And I mean, we're almost done covering, but we've got a lot to do tonight because
I want to speak to the jury. And we've got to get there. Yeah. Okay. So what else is, what else
does iron do? Iron sets up golden mixing bowls in the middle of the banquet. Oh, we're having a party.
I forgot. The Herald, with quick steps, was inviting any native of Delphi who wished to come to the
feast. When the tent was filled, they crowned themselves with garlands and ate the rich food,
satiety, when they had let go of this pleasure. An old man came by, oh, this is going to get good,
and stood in the midst of us. And what did he say? He raised a great laugh among the guests by
his zealous actions. Oh, he's going to get goofy. For he brought water for washing hands from the
pitchers and burned the myrtle incense and ruled over the golden cups, assigning this duty to himself.
Do you know who just walked in the door? Do you know who this sader is who is giving us from these
golden cups, this ambrosia? Do you know where we are? We're in the tent. We're in the tent. This is
where we all come from. The Judaism and Christianity that create that modest shell. Those are figments
of the human imagination. This is where we come from. This is us naked. You thought you're going
to be looking at Jesus naked, didn't you? Tonight you're looking at yourself. You're
looking at yourself. And some of you are going to look into that mirror and you're going to have
loathing. Some of you are going to see something that isn't there. It's to those. It's to the
delusional that we dedicate this wrap up. Go. Let's hit it. Oh, God. Oh, God. What's going to happen?
Are you ready? Isaiah, pull out your prophecy. Stone prophet running. Are you ready? There's
going to be this Pideon born to us. He's going to, wait, what? What? Pideon. Remember Jesus,
his little kiddies? The Pidea. Okay. Well, one of them is going to be born. A son's going to be given
to us. And the rulership of this cosmos is going to be on his shoulders. Yeah. And you know what
he's going to be called? His name is going to be messenger. Messenger of the great news. Messenger.
He's going to be an amazing, a thalmasto, Zumbalos. He's going to be a Zumbalos. Yeah,
he's going to be Zumbalos. He's going to be in Yischuros theos. And what else is he going to do?
He's going to bring Ere Nei. Ere Nei. Do you know what Damater brings? Do you know what the
Savior brings? She brings peace. And he is the Father. He is the Father of Ion. The Father of Ion.
I, I'm going to give you this peace. I'm going to give it to you. I'm going to give it to you.
In his agony, he struggles. He struggles with the drugs. He struggles with the temptation. He
struggles with the naked boy and all of it. He comes up. How does he come up? The soonestius
bromioio. What is the soonestius? That's the one who sits, co-enthroned. And who is there sitting
with this one in the garden of Gethsemane? Bromius. Bromius. This is the companion
of Bromius. We had to have this people. We had to have this. This is the curotrofe. Cura.
Cura. Do you see that? Cura. That's a girl. That's a girl. A child nourishing girl.
You mean Jesus was a cura? Jesus was a girl? The morning star has to be. Has to be. But wait.
Don't, don't get everything in a bind. Because the morning star is the paido file. The paido file.
You can see the root for child. You see our pie on the front of that. Yeah. And file. Okay. Remember
Jesus and Peter having their philotic dysphagia.
I told you. I told you to secure him, didn't I?
Should we let Jesus up for two minutes and he ran amok? Are we back? Is everybody back? Fantastic.
Let's bring back our paido file. We're not letting that happen, Jesus, right?
If you're out there and you're an evangelical and you pray really hard right now. Pray really hard
to shut this down. Because now is the time that I'm going to show you what's under Jesus' skirt.
Are you ready? Go, go. Give it to us. Give it to us. The paido, paido file. Yep. There it is.
Paido file. That's what she is. What was Mary? She was the Theotokos. She was the what?
She was the Theotokos. Do you know what that means? It means the one who produces the goddess.
The one who produces the goddess. She was a cura. She has to be a cura. What do you do with her?
You cut off her testicles. You cut off her testicles.
And she becomes the cup. The cup of your salvation. The cup that brings you healing.
The cup that takes away your woe. The cup that is that portal. That portal to the future. That's
the cup that she brings. She is that oracular source. Do you mean Jesus was that oracular Christos?
Now you hear it. Now you hear it. Are you ready? Are you ready? Go, go, go, go to the next. Boom,
boom. What is a paido file? Uh-oh. It's a paideraste. What is a paideraste? Please hit it.
Paideraste is a lover of boys. Mostly in a bad sense.
Wait, can we just enjoy this moment brought to you by Victorian England.
And welcome to the Queen's Privy Council. Now, what have you found, sir?
Paideraste, my queen. It appears as a lover of boys.
I hope that's mostly in a bad sense. Yes, don't get excited, grandma. Put your shorts back on.
Knickers. Do they call those knickers? Oh my god. Is this supposed to be like that? Here, okay.
Take it away. Take it away. Take that pedarast away. Go down. Jesus has to be the paideraste.
Why do you think he's saying I'm not a laestace? What do you think he's saying I'm not a trafficker?
What do you think? Because dude, that's him. He's supposed to be that one. And they know it.
They know it. We're like, we understand what you're doing, Jesus, and who you're casting out.
We understand. We understand the power of it. We know. And who is that you say?
What did he do? No, it wasn't. None of it was.
Seriously? Yeah. Seriously. Let's go to the next one. Let's go to the next one. You look at this
language of people. Oh, God. It's lovely. It's lovely. What? Great.
Please tell us how we're going to approach your temple. You and I are standing.
We're standing at the very portal, the very gateway to get in, to get in. And who's standing there?
Who's standing there? Dragons. What does she use? She uses dragons. You have to be able to master
that skill. You have to have those dragons. Macrovious. What does Macrovious tell us? The
dragons, they're temple guardians. Yeah, they're temple guardians. Are you ready? You ever seen a
dragon? You ever seen a dragon? You better be ready to hold that dragon up on a stick.
You better be ready to hold them up because you're not going to get any healing otherwise.
That junky Moses who stole his name from the muses, that character invented in the third century,
that character was the theft of the muse. We will put down this lie of history. This
appropriation of the Greek is a lie. You and I are talking. We're talking about the original
mysteries. We're talking about why Jesus would call himself a Christ. We're talking about why
the followers, the sons of Levi, why it is that they would cry, why is that with those 12 stones?
12, 13, 23. Love it. Let's go. Let's go to the next one. That was creepy. Here. Look, people.
What's around the throne? Damater. What's around the throne? Look at the last word. She's a wadzusa.
She's a wadzusa. What is she doing? She's crying. She's crying. In what?
Sitting on her throne encircled by a whirlwind of that smoke. Does everybody have the image? Please
set that. If you walk away, walk away with this set in your mind. She sits. She sits on that throne
and around her is that whirlwind. That is how we bring Sophia. Sophia. Can we get the next one?
We're almost there. We're almost finished. Look at this, people. Here's the ewazo to cry. Ewa,
just to see, you know, just to see if anybody cares, right? There it is. Digest that later. Jesus,
what are you? What are you, Jesus?
Under duress. Jesus is telling us he's monogenes. He's monogenes? Yeah. And all the Bible scholars,
all the Bible scholars running the door, right? They couldn't be here for the rest of the lecture
because it's corruptive to their ears. They can't hear, you know, to say something
so profoundly disturbing as skeins gland. Does that frighten you all? Does the skeins gland frighten
you all? It should be a draw, but instead it repels you. Okay, so for those of you who are repelled by
the skeins gland, here you are, ladies of frustration. You know what I'm talking about.
I can feel it out there. I know you. I know you. You know what I mean? You can't, you know,
you can't. Just some, we're not, some just can't go to the tent, you know what I mean?
That's where we're going in history, to the skeine, to that tent. Are you ready? Does anybody
notice that we've been there? Hey, did those people pass out over there? The people who were
watching on the big screen, right, with a popcorn? Somebody passed out. Did somebody pass out?
Wake them, wipe off their face and wake them up. Okay, let's go back. Let's go. Yeah, here we go.
So, so much, so much to God. Love this cosmos, baby. He loved the way it turned. He tried to
make that second Adam, so that what? He gave his monogany, right? He gave his monogany. You know
who this one is? This is the only born. This is the only born. Oh, the only born. He's going to bring
that Ionian life. He's going to bring it. Take it down. You know what that only born has to be,
Damater? That only born has to be that one who is both, who sits next to Bromius. You know what
Bromius is? Bromius is the sounder. The sounder. Are you ready? Let's hear Bromius. Next one. Here
comes people. Polupotnia. Come on in, Bromius. What are you? What are you, my queen? You're the
polupotnia. And what is a polupotnia? That polu is just much in Greek. It's just like an amplifier.
Like it's intense, the intense of whatever's going to follow. A mistress or a queen. I want you to
see this. What kind of queens do we talk about? Look at that force lying down, Greek students.
Polupotnia Theodon. That's the mistress of the beast, right? That's Artemis, right? Artemis. She's
the huntress too. She's that queen Polupotnia. She's that Polupotnia. Look at Aphrodite. Who's
the queen of those loves? Who's the queen of those loves? That's Aphrodite. That's Aphrodite. Look at
the amenities here. Uh-oh. You mean the furies. The furies? They represent that Polupotnia? Yes,
they do. Yes, they do. And if you look at the rest of the definition here, next one down, Chewie.
Boom. What else is that polupotnia? Look, she is revered, right? She is August. She is August. Who
is Earth? Who is Earth now? The evangelicals can scoff that you could possibly, you could possibly
venerate the Earth, but the people who created democracy did so. Okay, so cool, cool, cool.
And she's your fate, by the way, too. She's your fate. So all of this feeding into the
dab matir, to that savior, to that one that you have with you in the interior, in that very heart
of the worship. This is she, or if you want, he. Yeah, let's go, let's go. Does everybody see it?
Has anybody, look, has the skirt come up yet on Jesus? Has that, have we seen what's there?
Are people looking, right? People, focus, right? We're about to get back on the ship,
head back to base, and this is our last field trip. I want you to look between
the space that you should look on Jesus. I want you to look at it. Give me the next one.
Boom. Who are we in the presence of? We're in the presence of the thesmaphore. Who's gonna bring
that law? Who's gonna bring that cosmos? Is it Moses? Is it Jesus? Where does all that come from?
It comes from the thesmaphore. It comes from da matir. When there was no Jesus, when there was no
Moses, there was a da matir. Next. Watch what happens, people. Are you ready? How are we gonna
cause this? Are you looking at the male or are you looking at the female? Yes, the answer is yes.
Who is Mises or Misa? Who is this? I don't know, but quick. This is our last little chance. Let's
burn some incense. Look what it says at the top, thumiam asturaka. Guess what? This is the same
cronian incense. It is the same Saturnian incense. And what's it gonna bring to us? It's gonna bring
us the thesmaphore, right? The one who carries the narthex. You see Dionysus at the end of the line?
He's that much venerated seed. He is that sperma. He is Eubuleus. Who is Jesus working through?
She's sitting right in front of you. She's sitting right in front of you. Jesus was a vessel.
And this is who she brought. Are you ready? Look at the bottom. She's the areton anasa.
That word anasa is a thousand years, a thousand years older than any, any of your traditions.
Yeah. Your religions, any of them, it's a thousand years older. You monest, you have no hope. You have
no hope. Your movements have no hope. Areton anasa. This is who we're talking about,
mise. And just look at the top line here, people. Arsena caithelun. Arsena caithelun.
Male and female. Two-natured. This is who we're talking about. We're talking
about the one who frees us. And who is the one who frees us in the next one, two, three, four,
five lines? The Phrygian mother. Aphrodite on Cyprus. And who else? Isis. Isis in the land of Egypt.
Who is the da mater? Who is the one who comes to us to bring us that ionic life?
Who is that one? Before Jesus was doing it, it was that precious form, that masculine and feminine
form together in one. Now, they can't produce the blood unless you castrate them in order to get
the cosmos. The kingdom of heaven. The organization of heaven. You have to cut off Jesus's testicles.
That feminine form that he is, that guinomorph that sits in Dionysus, that form, that form must be
recalled. What do you think those magi were doing? Did you think it was a game? He was a specific
person who was coming via the star, via the star. What do you think they gave him? They gave him
these ingredients they're using right now in these rites. They gave him the same ingredients that he's
using right now in the rites. Go to the next one. Go to the next one. Bring in peace. Bring in peace
and you know me. You know me. What's you know me? What's this thing so lovely? This you know me?
Yeah, look people. These, this is where we want to come. This is the place that you wanted to come
under Moses. This is the place that you wanted to come under Jesus, but because those are atheistic
religions, you couldn't. You couldn't bring the you know me. It has to come through Sophia. You failed.
You failed.
Take a look people. Take a look on the second line at the word in blue. Where are we going to find
you know me? We're going to find it with the scutha. With the scutha. Who is scutha? Scutha is the name
of Medea. The Scythians are so well known for establishing you know me. You can walk up with
a purse of coin, throw it on the ground, walk away from it, come back a week and a half later.
It'll be sitting in the same place unopened. They were known for their eunomia. They were
known for what Moses, Moses tried to produce. They were known for what the Jesus tried to produce.
The scutha. And what does that scutha mean in the Greek? You know what it means to
Scythian in the Greek? It means to shave your head and enter a state of intoxication under the
control of the star. We are children of dawn. We are children of dawn. We sit on our throne
in the column of smoke. We sit there. We sit there. Let's go last for the last couple of times.
Yep. Next one. I want to bring you to some statues as we're heading back. We're heading,
we're going to head back, but in order to get there I got to show you artifact really quick.
Are you ready? Are you ready? Here we go. There are these statues of mercury and they're built on a
base, a quadring, right? It's a square. You got a square base. And how are they figured?
They're figured with the head alone and with an erect male member. So you've got a column
with a phallus attached to it and carved out of the top is the head. And tell me,
why do they do this? I'm just going to translate this for you. Why do they do this? Because these
things signify that the sun, do you hear Saturnalia? That the sun is the head of the Mundus.
The sun, S-U-N is the head of the Mundus and is the Satorim, is the Sator of existence.
The Sator, what kind of, what is a Sator? This is the figure of people that you and I have been
looking at for seven seasons. This, the S-T-R or sigma tau rho root is the one, the spermaea,
the one who brings that seed, the one who brings that seed. That Sator is an extension.
When Jesus is on the cross, he becomes that Sator, that extension, that extension of the sun.
Are you ready? Cornelius Labio, he says about Maya that in the Callens of May, the time of May,
there's a tent, there's a dedication under the name, right? They're actually dedicating the temple.
But when they do so, they do so in the name of Bona Daia. Bona Daia, just Bona Da.
Are you kidding me? Bona Da, just the good Da. What? Did you know that we worshiped her here? Of
course she did. And who, who is she? Who is she? They say that you can learn in her secret rights,
her identity as Bona Daia, right? Or Gaia, or in the Greek, Aia. Maya, Gaia, and Aia,
those are the same entity, just expressed by different tones, hearing different,
different tuning of those vowels. Here they are. Are you ready? The Bona Daia. And who is that Bona
Daia? What is so fantastic about her? Look at 26. They say she's Medea, because in her temple is
every type of drug, every type of drug in her priestesses, they're the ones that create all the
medicines. They're the ones that create all the medicines. Do you want to see who the Christ is?
Do you want to see? If you do, you're going to have to see the onlyborn who is both male and
female, who through the power of the purple is able to make the blood that brings us new life.
New life, new life. Jesus Christ, looking here, standing here after all this time,
seven seasons, looking at your genitalia has been the most eye-opening experience for me.
Looking at your genitalia, Jesus, has been the most when, when Mary,
the Virgin Mother, fed in the temple by the angels, when she produces that special,
special hermaphrodite. We know for the sake of the kingdom of heaven, we clip off, we clip off
testicles, we take that manhood, and we give it, we give full authority to that all mother,
so that she can nourish those children. When Jesus was arrested in the public park
with the naked boy, he was perpetuating a practice that harkened back across
1500 years to a period of a Bronze Age when people stepped up and created a right
that you and I now call the mystery. Jesus was just as authentic, historic, and actual
as every other Greek participating in every other branch of this mystery, including Heracles,
including Heracles. We owe this mystery to one person. The secret history that you
will be able to carry now is that of a queen of Lady Babylon who created the right with her own
body. She brought healing, and when you sit with Sophia, you too will have that medicine.
Ladies and gentlemen of the jury, I have brought to you, I have brought to you a time of decision.
I am going to sum up, I am going to sum up, and while I do, I want you to be casting your
votes. There is only one question tonight. There is only one question. Do we find him guilty?
Do you believe the trans-dimensional authority has brought to you a case with enough merit,
with enough merit to say, no, this man is guilty. This man is guilty of racketeering.
This man is guilty of psychic assault. This man is guilty of fraud. Do you have
that vote? Tonight you do. Tonight you do. Chewie, give us a little bit of, pump us,
put us in a place that we can feel this pull. You people have watched this for a long time.
You've watched this for seven seasons, and now I'm giving you a voice. The pull is active.
Don't rush. Don't rush there. You don't have to plug it in right away. I'm going to give you some
time. I'm going to give you some time to stew and to ruminate. When we're done, we'll announce the
verdict. But Chewie, in order to get us there, pump us up with some lovely, lovely video.
You're honored tonight. I bring before your court a man, a man who was singled out in his generation
to take up a yoke that would cost him everything to perpetuate a kingdom, a kingdom that was
born of God, a kingdom that was righteous, a man who tried to bring the Thesmaphoria,
a man who tried to bring that El Nomia. This is him. He sits right here, your honor.
He sits right here from his own lips, calling himself a laystace, from his crimes, shielding
himself within a religion, a religion that abused children, a religion whose science was so advanced
it was able to transform the human into a God to make a vessel, a cup. It is my charge, your honor,
that this man, Jesus Christ, must be found guilty on corruption. He must be found to have corrupted
a right to have brought a mindset to people to cast them into subjection, not to Sophia, not to Sophia.
You know, your honor, where this court stands. You know, DK, you have been there. You have seen
the drugs, the Bible scholars, the Bible scholars who we will give voice to right now. You know
what they will say. They will say, this, your honor, is absurd. This is a trial that is a witch trial
of a man who was innocent, a man who was a lover of the children, a man who brought salvation to
humanity. He is not the first and they are not his first disciples. They are not the ones to
have come ex nihilo, your honor, you know that, you know that all of this is traceable.
The Bible scholars, everyone here, you all know that this is traceable to the DNA that is in the
language. You know that we have that linguistic archaeology to show us who he was.
You see, Jesus bamboozling us there. Just the name of Jesus is enough.
What I hope to have brought your honor to the people of this world is the reality that underlies
the false, unreal matrix that we now swim in. We humans that we swim in this stuff
it's been my hope, your honor, to be able to bring that reality to us, to open up the eyes
that I know. I know that the evangelicals, I know that the Orthodox, I know that every religious
teacher, every monist on the planet will identify correctly that I bring you satanic initiation.
They will. What you have seen, jury, you cannot unremember. What you have seen, Christians,
you cannot wash from your mind. You listened and that was the mistake. Now you've seen a world,
a world that you don't want to exist but that does and you're going to have to come face to face
with it. It has been my honor, DK, to stand before you. It has been my honor to represent the muse.
Thank you. Thank you to everyone. Now, what's coming up before we tally the votes? What's coming up?
What's coming up? People are saying and I want to say a few thank yous. I just want to stand back
and say a few thank yous to people. To everyone who has written in and who has told me about how
satanic initiation transformed them, I truly appreciate this. You don't know how much that
means to me. I offer that up. I offer that up to the powers that be. I offer that to Sophia and I
say thank you. I say thank you. Keep up your search. What will I do now? Before I tell you,
make my announcement, I want to say thank you to Chewy, this whole time who has been,
everybody round of applause for Chewy, who has been my constant, constant co-pilot,
who frankly has engineered this whole process and who is making this all flow. To Chewy,
thank you very much. It's been a great honor to work with you and I hope that we can continue
working together in making something that people can say, hey, this is worth breathing. This is
worth breathing. Yeah, yeah. And just as a side note to Henry Cavill, please, please for the last
four years, all I have heard from the start of the great plague is your name every day, every day,
every day, Henry. Please, Henry, please put out this fire. Please bring satiety.
Cleanse. Cleanse the air. Cleanse the air. Thank you. Thank you, Henry. And now, sir, now, sir,
that you are Adonis. You are Adonis. Chewy, is that enough? I'm afraid she's going to,
she's keeping me. No, it's okay. It's okay. You know, Wookie's will pull your arm off if you,
you know, if you don't do what they ask you to do. So, Henry Cavill, seriously? Call me.
Call me. Just five minutes, Henry. Okay, curatives is what we need. What's going to happen?
What's going to happen? This is the last of satanic initiation and Bible studies.
What I would, what I would like to announce is the opening, the opening of a new temple.
And that temple is everything. Omnia. Omnia is coming. The little twist in tonight is that
Omnia is coming. Mr. Shadow has descended and has given us the go ahead to create via his
architecture, via his design to create what will be the new museum. A place where you can come,
where you can see that reality. Not a dead, stale place of exhibits, right? Not a place
where somebody is going to put up some modules and charge you $5.95 for their terrible opinion,
which is inevitably wrong, right, Chewie? Right? No, a non-profit. And this is one of Omnia's
core values. None of this is for profit's sake. None of it. We preserve a sacred space for
our history. We bring that from the ether. Omnia will bring an experience, a place for you to come,
a place for the world to come, and to partake of that mystery. Our goal is nothing less
than the continuation, the re-establishment and the continuation of that mystery.
And you'll find it in the concrete, not in personality, not in cult. You'll find it in the
concrete. It should be a place for you to come where you can explore a pathway that perhaps
you wouldn't have explored before. That you can take something from those of you that you've
have been left behind, those of us who have fallen before us, a time to raise them up and to restore
classical civilization, a time for us to reset the clock and to bring back those very powers that
govern the world that created democracy, those powers. It's our task to bring back Sophia. It is
our holy, holy responsibility to bring back Sophia. This will be Omnia. My shirt will be different.
I may be in a different place, but Omnia, I want you to rest assured, will be that avenue through
which we restore the muse. Thank you to everyone here for everything that you've done. Let's announce
the verdict. Close the poll. Chewie, close the poll. Tell me how much, how much we've got here.
Would you mind reading out the verdict? You're pointing it out to me, Chewie, because we all know.
93% of thanking human beings with genitalia of different types, different countries,
different appearances. 93% of these mortals, watchers, found him guilty. You remember it.
You take that message on high and you let them know Jesus is guilty.
Welcome to Satanic initiation. It has been my great honor to serve you in this capacity.
I'll be returning to the devil to find out what's next. Welcome. Welcome, Omnia. Welcome,
everything. Inhale, Satan.
Get ready for the devil's chorus.
