It's a sacrifice.
Hit the mark every time.
Psychotropic logos.
You know who's in the right.
Urses with a giggling smile.
Reduce the flowers with a pow.
I give you my blood.
Do you have the blood of the dying god?
Sell fire with the stars in your eyes.
Rub it in with the man who's laughing.
I am Bean.
Bring Hallelujah.
From Aphrodite's lips.
Epos.
Purple juice cult.
Gorgeous.
Make your face melt.
Terror cards dealt.
Ancient songs of cosmic spells.
Wave the magic wand from overhead.
Simon says, Hail Satan.
Welcome back to Lady Babylon.
This is more Bacchic orgy.
I love this.
Oh, God, you know, you know, we've been busy this week.
Satanic congregations, you know that we have,
I have the stuff for you tonight.
I have the stuff for you tonight.
And what I'm going to do,
I'm going to say a couple of things first.
First of all, I want to give a welcome
to all of the new persons
who have come to Lady Babylon.
I appreciate it.
And I respect the fact that you are giving me
some of your time, some of your time.
So I will be direct and not waste it.
Thank you for coming tonight.
I want to say a, just give a shout out
to the, those who bring us the sacrifice tonight
because that's what the, that's what the theme is here.
I so love this.
I just want to tell you, okay, let's stop.
Let's stop.
Let's, let's stop pretending.
Okay.
As the time machine rolls.
Let's stop pretending and let's just say, hey,
it is what it is, you know, it is what it is.
And for those of you who are new and who want to know
what is this thing tonight?
We're bringing it to you in the form of Christ.
I am going to show you for the first time.
It's sacrifice.
Oh God.
It is.
It's what you, you say Tannock Congress.
You love it.
Okay.
I'll stop.
Look, I'm going to be direct and just tell you,
it's the sacrifice.
You love it.
I know it's the soul sucking.
It's why you come is to suck the soul.
I know it is.
I notice that I know that taste.
I know that taste.
There's nothing more invigorating than that.
And tonight we have company.
Tonight we have company.
Tonight we're going to welcome a boy named Dan.
And Dan is going to give us some of his,
some of his take on life and whatnot.
And we're going to see what he,
if what he's saying is, you know,
accurate or, you know, I just want to,
I want to bring, come on Dan, come on in tonight.
This is, let's not get hostile.
If you're going to understand Christ Dan, right?
And I'm going to bring it in for all the evangelicals,
for all the evangelicals out there.
I'm going to show you the Christ tonight.
Tonight I'm going to show you the Christ.
And it's not going to be what you thought it was.
And your world is going to be different.
And it's going to be painful.
If you're sitting there and you can feel it,
you can start to feel that pressure wave, you know,
buckle up because it's coming.
It's coming.
Fantastic.
Oh, let's bring it.
Let's bring it.
Hey Jesus.
What's he doing in that?
Oh God.
I've got a couple of clips.
I'm going to start with Gnostic Informant.
We'll join us later.
We'll join us later.
And we will proceed with some discussion.
But what I've got for you tonight,
for all the Satanic congregation.
Okay, come on.
Everybody off, everybody off.
Get off, get off, get off the time machine.
And let's go back to a time when you could banquet on a soul.
Oh God, bring it to us.
Go ahead and open it up, Shuey.
Let's get the first.
First clip, first clip.
Okay.
Nope.
There we go.
Hit it.
Start charts, right?
What is the Christ?
What is the Antichrist?
What is the Christ?
If you have to know the Antichrist,
you have to know the Christ.
Right.
All right.
Let's see it.
It's a Greek word.
For?
For applying a drug to your eyes so that they may be open.
That's what the Christ means in Greek.
Yes, the incredulity on the face of this podcast host is warranted,
because that is pure and utter nonsense.
Pure and utter nonsense.
Pure and utter nonsense.
All right.
Wasn't that fantastic?
Did you like the degrees on the wall?
That's Dan.
And everybody give a hand.
Give a hand to Dan,
He's stepping up.
He's stepping up and he's gonna defend.
He's gonna show you tonight in the arena.
He's gonna show you exactly what his skills
have enabled him to do.
So around, around for, around for the warrior, Dan.
Thank you, Dan.
Give me the next one.
It's from the verb Rio to be stung by the gadfly.
So as with many words in many languages,
the verbal root Rio in ancient Greek
can mean more than one thing.
Overwhelmingly, it refers to rubbing
with some kind of sticky fluid of some kind,
either after bathing or for some kind of ritual purpose
or something like that.
So to be anointed anointing something like that
is going to take up the majority of the real estate
for the occurrences of this verbal root.
However, it can refer to the sting of a gadfly,
but that is overwhelmingly in the minority
of occurrences of this verb.
And it's limited to classical
and later Greek lyrical poetry.
Oh, smoke.
Oh, did you, did you taste that?
Can everybody just, can we relish this for a minute?
Look, before we proceed, come on, man.
You know, let me take the mask off.
Yeah, here we are.
I'll put the axe down.
Here we go.
First of all, you have to admire the distinguished,
you know, confident, self-confident.
Boy, this is a self-confident person.
I'd be willing to say that that is a form of compensation.
You see, I've played this game before
and I've given conferences and when I gave them in England,
they said, the London Times said,
this research is the last wild frontier of classics.
So I've been there.
I've been there and I know,
and it's a way of compensating.
And this is typical for Bible scholars.
Dan is a Bible scholar.
All those plaques on his back wall that prop up his bravado,
all of those plaques are degrees and Bible studies.
Classical philologists laugh.
They laugh at the level of performance
that Bible studies are able to generate
because people, I just, I'm gonna tell you this now.
I'm gonna give it, and I promise tonight,
I'm gonna do it, Dan.
I'm gonna do what Dan needs to be done.
He needs to be shown the technique.
And what we're talking about is philology here.
Bible scholars study theology.
They usually get a couple of semesters of Greek
and then eh, they get like a semester
of an intermediate reading where they look at,
let's look at John, right?
And then maybe a letter of Paul in there and who-hoo.
And then all of a sudden they're shipped off
to the theology department and given their who-ha.
Now, how do I know all of this?
Because I used to teach at seminary
and when I taught there, I increased enrollment
from five different dioceses.
Yes, yes, and how was I able to do that?
Because I was a classical philologist
and I know what training is.
Classical philologists, when Dan was sitting in theology,
Armin was sitting in Greek, reading Greek.
And that's really the issue tonight, right?
These are, notice that this is a Greek term
I'm bringing, right?
Christos, what is that?
Christos, what is it?
What is it?
And Dan says preposterous, so let's see.
Dan, please, this is such a great form
and people we love, Dan, let's give him another,
let's give him some, another couple of chances
at the wisdom and let's see what we can pull out of it.
Go ahead, Joey, give him the next one.
Which has anything whatsoever to do with early Jewish
or early Christian literature?
Not the Septuagint, not the New Testament,
not the early Greek literature.
The notion that you can just assert that sense
for any given occurrence, just because it happens
to be in the lexicon, is strong's concordance,
NASA means to deceive levels of amateurishness.
Shh.
Amateur, amateur, you see what that is?
That's an amateur, okay.
So remember, what's the context here?
I have told Danny Jones, Danny Jones,
I had the greatest day of my life with Danny Jones
and Danny Jones said, well, God,
I have how many times have I told him?
Christ.
All right.
We're back.
Are we back, Joey?
Fantastic.
That was something.
I had to really work up going.
You and I had something going
and you didn't realize that I realized you were going.
Right?
Oh, I've done that before.
Here we go.
Are you ready?
Here we go.
So what I'm doing is, look, people,
I'm gonna tell you straight up.
I told Danny Jones and as many people as have seen this now,
I told him that Christ is a drug term.
Yeah, it's a pharmaceutical term, right?
And what we're gonna do is we're gonna watch Dan,
we're gonna watch him now step in and say,
there's a difference between this person and this person.
This person's a Christian.
So the word they're using,
it doesn't apply to their neighbor
or their contemporary sources, right?
It's very amateurish, if you will.
Yeah, good word.
Good word, Dan.
You nailed it.
Hit the last one.
Neither the word Eastros,
gadfly, nor Eastromania occur at all in the New Testament
or in early Christian literature.
This has absolutely no relationship whatsoever
to the title Christos or to the verbal root Chrio.
This person is just making this all up.
All right, all right.
So here we go.
Are you ready?
Okay, so look, by the way,
by the way, Dan, you're,
I can hear modern Greek in what you're saying,
which is seminaries do this
because they do not teach Greek well,
but you know, I was telling everybody, Dan,
that in school, that's what we do all the time.
You gotta read all the text, Dan.
You can't say that you're a translator of Greek.
If you only spend the time that you spend
on a little bit of New Testament,
a little bit of Septuagint,
and all of a sudden, you know,
all of the experts around you and your environment, Dan,
because Dan, when you're reading this Greek,
there are all of these great, great, great works
that are being written in Greek
that shine tremendous light, Dan.
They shine tremendous light
on all of the other documents
that are in their environment
because this is what classical philologists do, Dan.
We don't need theology, right?
It's a science.
A reason is the number one thing, Dan.
So watch this.
This is what I'm saying to you people.
We're done with the clips, right, Cheery?
This is what I'm saying.
You don't know the difference
between Dan and me.
You don't know the difference.
He says, it's this way.
I'm saying, it's this way.
Who can tell?
Who can tell?
Well, we know your reason.
We know your...
Oh, did somebody want me to spank?
Now I'm a slave.
I'm a slave to you, Satanist.
Oh, I love this.
Come here.
Come here.
Come here.
You know, here.
Let's just pull down, Dan.
Just pull him down.
Just a little bit.
Just a little dip, Dan.
Oh, it's okay.
See how flinchy.
Finchiness.
Let's go.
Oh, God.
You got the bucket thing going on
right from the beginning.
Okay, so before we put that up,
now here, I'm just gonna drop the bomb
at the beginning of this whole thing.
And you can just listen to this,
tune out and walk away
and still receive the same level of satisfaction.
Right?
This is finishing during dessert.
Ever finished during dessert?
Oh, God.
This is it.
Here we go.
Here we go.
Oh, oh, oh, oh.
What is the problem, Dan?
The problem is you're not looking at the sources, right?
You're not looking at ancient medical sources.
You're not looking at any of the contemporary lit.
I know you're not.
Because I can tell.
I can track you from the way that you handle Greek.
I can track you.
Ready?
Are you ready, Dan?
Okay, pull it up.
Give Dan it.
We'll give Dan the pharmacone.
Are we gonna give Dan the pharmacone?
Here you go.
Here it comes.
It's a drug, Dan.
Look at the top.
It's a drug.
Whether healing or noxious.
So who do they give us?
Now, what are you guys looking at here, by the way?
This lexicon?
I saw you use the lexicon, Dan.
It was like watching a person pick up a hammer
for the first time or something.
Yeah, the authoritative.
You know, this is not the authoritative text.
This is a tool that the Victorians developed.
Those great classical pharmacologists from 1850.
Right?
This is them.
This is Alice in Wonderland, baby.
So you got to respect it.
And how do you use this tool?
You got to walk through the sources.
If you're walking the word through the sources,
you can see how it is used over time.
And you can trace its semantic drift.
You can see what happens to it.
Oh, it's a history.
It's a history and it's so vibrant.
Watch the drugs here, people.
Are you ready?
Here comes the bomb.
Look at paragraph number two.
Healing remedy or medicine, right?
In Homer.
In Homer.
Give me the next slide.
Is this that blown up?
Watch this, people.
Boom.
Are you ready?
Mostly applied outwardly.
And then he gives a whole bunch.
Look at this gorgeous Greek here.
Oh my God.
Epithese famachakken.
Oh God.
Look.
Oh, it just, I don't know.
There's, you know, there's a charm.
There's a charm.
There's a charm.
You know, somebody's out there right now making video.
Video about something, I don't know.
Something I said, I don't know.
It's probably not relevant.
But they're making it.
And it just makes me wonder, how do you justify?
If the language that you write in, ancient Hebrew,
it's got 8,000 unique words, 8,000.
How do you compete against Greek?
It's got somewhere between 500,001 million to 1.5 million
they've estimated.
You know, you can't count that kind of thing.
You can't count that thing.
Your vocabulary, that's reaching for the stars, baby.
That's reaching for the stars.
That's why, do you see how amazingly superior ancient Greek
is to the Anglo-Saxon garbage that we have to deal with
that our brain is stuck in?
Do you see it?
I can't get 1.5 million words.
I can't even comprehend.
How do you get that much?
What kind of concepts explode in your brain?
Oh, I love it.
I love it.
Let's relish this.
He's still here, Dan.
Get over here.
Bring that second one up again.
Okay, Dan, are you ready?
Dan, pay attention and look, Dan.
Look what kind of drugs we're talking about in this one.
Oh, look to the end of the one, two, three, four,
fifth line down.
Are you gonna see, Dan?
Pharmacon Christon.
Oh my God.
Christon Pharmacon.
What is it?
What is a drug Christ?
What is a drug Christ?
We've got that passage.
We'll show it to you before we do.
Before, well, that's Euripides.
Oh, right.
And Dan says, now, wait a minute.
Wait a minute, if Euripides used it,
it cannot be used by a Christian the same way
because there is a wall of separation.
Only in your false reality, Dan,
does something like that exist.
Think about this, Dan, for a minute.
Think about it.
Think about it.
Classists sit around and they study all the texts
and they study how the texts influence each other.
Do you know of all the thousands of authors
that we have, Dan?
Of all the thousands of texts that we've got, Dan?
Do you know how many of those are walled off
and considered, oh, maybe out of time and space?
Are they in a different dimension?
You're in a fairytale world, Dan.
Look, Dan, look at Jesus Christ, Dan.
Look at him on that next line down, Ang Christon.
Look at the word following, epichriston.
Do you know what the difference is, Dan?
You would, if you read the medical texts,
but Dan doesn't read medical texts.
Dan says he knows Greek, but he does not know Greek.
And you're sitting there in the audience
and you don't know.
Dan can put on a face and can sit there
and project to you confidence.
And a guy like me can hear him
and now he's full of it, right?
Now he's full of it, right?
Preposterous, preposterous.
How many academics conferences
did I go to where they use preposterous?
Right?
That's the disease of theology.
That's the academic disease of theology.
It really just takes up all the space in the student's brain
and they can't grow with the Greek.
Oh, God, I love it.
Is this getting hot?
Is this getting hot?
I'm starting to get like, oh, Dan,
just hang in there with me, Dan.
You'd love it, you know what I mean?
You'd learn to love it.
Let's go to that very same source.
I just want to make sure that we gleaned everything.
Oh, look, he's got at the bottom.
For those who were curious,
at the bottom he's got the different types of drugs
in Greek.
You got catapulton, you got porton,
you got epipaston, those things you sprinkle on, right?
You got epichriston as opposed to the enchriston.
These epichriston, you're going into the surface,
like with your thumb and somebody's eye, right?
Enchriston is an incri-station.
It's going beneath the surface.
There's a, it's a more aggressive form
of the application of the drug.
How, you know, we can do a lot with whips and,
you know, stuff like that.
But this is Bacchic, baby.
This is Jesus in his earliest form, right?
Go hit the next one.
Chewie, look at this people.
Now, remember what Dan said, right?
There's absolutely, this is just absolutely crazy.
There is no connection between Christ and drugs.
That's because Dan has never read the text.
Dan, I'm so sorry.
Those, those degrees, those degrees, right?
Ah, ah, it's a Bible Institute.
Ah, ah, okay.
Look at this, look at the epichristos.
I love this.
Smeared on, right?
Painted, right?
Give me the next one.
There's a companion flower there.
I love that.
They don't need to see that one.
And here's the enchristos.
I just want you to see it, people.
Look, here is the word Christ.
Danny Jones, please look at this word.
You can see it in the Greek and it says,
in Christ's station.
And it's something that you rub into somebody.
And where do you rub it?
Look at the Greek in the blue.
It's in the blue.
Aestos of Thalmus.
Oh, isn't it?
Greek is so sexy.
Ancient Greek.
Well, Greek is not ancient Greek.
Greek, ancient Greek.
So it's got this kind of boom, boom, boom.
You know what I mean?
You're at that, you're at that,
what are they called?
Wraves or whatever.
What is the Aestos of Thalmus?
Into the eyes.
Into the eyes.
Dan, I know you didn't read any of these texts, Dan.
You can take it, Dan.
I know you didn't read any of these texts, Dan,
that I'm showing you references to.
I know you haven't, Dan.
And I know you haven't read authors
that are contemporary with the New Testament.
People like Diascortes, Dan.
Do you know that Diascortes talks about Christ, Dan?
Does you know what he does?
Of course, he's talking about Christing
because it is a pharmaceutical operation.
The first Christ, Dan, was a woman
and she is the genius who figured out the mystery.
Oh God, Dan, does that hurt you?
Does that hurt you, Dan?
Oh, let's see it.
They don't trust me.
They don't trust me.
I want to say something, a couple of things,
a couple more things as we kind of,
as we kind of establish the Christ, right?
What is the Christ?
You have to also realize,
please realize everybody out there.
And I'm giving you this because a lot of people here
have given their time for this.
So I want to honor you.
Are you ready?
That first Christ is a woman
and she Christ herself in order to enter
into a state of mania and then proceeds
to intoxicate people around her
to force them to enter that state's active,
active possession, active possession, fantastic.
Okay, let me get to the next one.
I want to give them the right hook here.
Here comes the right hook, Dan, please.
Hang in there, Dan.
I know it looks bad and I know I just showed you
reference to a text that talks directly
about putting those in the eyes.
But you know, Dan,
there's a guy diascortes in the first century.
He's got it all there, Dan.
You can find that.
Sometimes you want, you can go to Lady Babylon.
You can look back because I've given references
to diascortes and that kind of thing.
I know you don't read them.
I know you don't read Paul of Agina.
I know you don't read Galen.
You may say Galen, but you don't read Galen.
I know that for a fact.
Sorry, but it's second-sophistic brother and I can tell.
What is this here?
This is the enchanted potion or filter, right?
This is the magic side of the pharmacone
and the wall that Dan wants to erect.
And this is what all Bible scholars do, right?
The Bible is special.
It is the inherent word of God.
And it is special.
The Torah, that is special, right?
The New Testament, that is special.
And these things cannot be dealt with
in the manner that all of the other bits of the past
can be dealt with.
It's a special attitude.
I'm gonna erect.
They may have done that, but we certainly didn't, right?
That's the same attitude, Dan,
that they gave me at my dissertation.
The head of the department said,
the Romans just wouldn't do such a thing.
Just wouldn't do such a thing.
Dan, there's thousands of pages of the Romans
doing just such things.
And so I'm afraid to have to tell you this,
but Jesus was a drug user and he is Christing his own eyes.
Oh God, how's he getting that stuff there?
Remember Dan in the garden
when the naked kid was with Jesus,
when he was arrested for him?
Remember, he had the purple bandage on his,
the medicated bandage, let me put it that way,
on his yahoo, right?
And Jesus is being administered.
The rights having the purple through the impregnated linen
under the pressure of the ejaculation of that naked kid,
right, that is the Jesus Christ
who has the drugs on board,
who is able to enter into the mystery.
You mean this is all chemical mystery?
Yeah, of course it is.
Of course it is, look at the words, okay?
You're saying, no, you're still a nut.
And let me tell you something, the word gospel.
How about if we just look at gospel?
The gospel, you know what the gospel is?
It's a word the doctors use.
Wait, what, the gospel is medical term?
Yeah, and guess what, it's way older than the Christian usage.
The thing that you call the Christian usage, way older.
And it's been used over time, what does it mean?
It means the power of bringing health
that the concoction has.
So you have compound drugs and they're gospel.
They're Eungalion or they're Epongalion.
They use both.
That's the efficacy of the drug that you're taking.
That's the gospel.
Oh really, what is salvation?
What is salvation?
Salvation is the state you enter
once you have the drugs.
Okay, fantastic.
And you mean there are people who are using the terms?
Just like that, when Jesus Christ is walking around,
and he's like with that kid, he's in the garden of Gethsemane,
that kid's naked, and he's got that bandage around his penis.
And he says, oh my God, the drippy stuff is disgusting.
Ryan, what is he's got that drippy stuff on his face?
It's not the cleanest operation, you know what I mean?
Orgiastic or cult rites that are involved in this.
That are involved with the mystery and are always messy, right?
There's always purifications and whatnot
that have to be done.
The baptisms, right?
Those are about dyes.
Those are about dyes.
Did anybody know that?
Did anybody know that Mary was 12 years old?
She was auctioned off and that her vagina
was full of the burning purple?
Yeah, that made it into the apocryphal stuff.
Yeah, we got a midwife there and everything.
Everybody check it out, I'm not kidding, it's all there.
Right, so anyway, back to the,
let's get Dan back up on his feet.
Come on, Dan, stand with me, Dan.
Let's look at a couple more sources, brother.
Let's look at this.
Here's the, I just wanted you to see
that the drug is a dye or a paint, you know?
These things that they're putting,
the pigments that they're putting in the drugs,
those are the very same pigments that they're using to dye.
So, you know, it's not like they differentiate.
Baptism is that medical process.
Oh God, it's gorgeous, isn't it?
Go down to the next one.
We only have a couple here people tonight.
Watch this, Dan, watch this.
You've got a pharmacone, a drug of salvation, so devious.
Now you didn't know this existed, Dan, right?
You didn't even know what a Christ was.
This morning when he woke up,
he didn't know what a Christ was.
Evangelicals across this planet,
they didn't know what a Christ was.
Mormons, Jehovah's Witnesses, all of them.
They didn't know what a Christ was.
Now they know the Christ is a drug
and that drug is the way of salvation.
It's the way of salvation.
It's the pharmacone, so devious.
But he didn't know that.
Dan didn't know that.
Give Dan that next text.
I want Dan here.
This is vitamins.
Dan, just be still.
This is gonna hurt a little bit.
A little pressure here, Dan.
Just bear with me, try to relax.
Try to relax, are you ready?
This is a Christ reference.
Dan, look, here's a Christ reference.
Here he is, you know, Christ on.
There he is, hi, Jesus.
No, this is from Euripides.
This is from Euripides, and who's Euripides?
He's a tragic playwright.
And what is he doing?
When I say tragic playwright,
I don't mean like somebody who went to college
to be able to do this kind of stuff or anything like that.
No, no, no, I'm not talking about that.
This guy is the son of a root collector
who is involved in supplying all the drugs to the cults.
Okay, and he's riding this in a cave
and he has in the mouth a pheedra.
It's okay, don't worry about who's pheedra is for now.
He says,
He says,
Do you have a Christ or do you have one of those potables?
They're distinguishing between drugs
based upon how they're used.
Those potables, everybody drinks them, right?
The Christ, everybody knows what you do with a Christ.
No problem, no problem.
Keep going.
Now, notice that you have not seen anointing once, right?
Because that's the trash heap, right?
Don't go there, just stay with the Greek people.
Stay with the Greek.
Here's Mark 16, 18.
What does Jesus say in Mark 16, 18?
He says,
You're going to raise up serpents.
And when you drink the thanacemone,
it's not gonna hurt you.
When you drink the thanacemone,
what are Jesus's people doing?
They're drinking drugs.
Drinking drugs, Dan.
You didn't realize that Jesus was a drug fiend, Dan.
He's walking around with a title that says,
I'm a drug fiend.
Oh my God.
Maybe, you know, you've got to ask Christians.
Just ask them straight up.
Do you think Jesus was the only Christ that ever existed?
Do you think he was the first?
Do you think he just popped on the scene and fairy tale?
Ho, ho, ho.
And there he is.
Boom, boom.
I'm a Christ, you're what?
Nobody knows what that means
because it's the first frigging time
any of us have ever heard it.
Where's that little kid?
Where's John?
Where's John?
Where'd he go?
People keep saying this.
I want to correct this.
Oh, he's so bad.
What is that?
Are we dead?
Are we dead?
Oh, God.
Oh, God, I stepped on the wires.
I'm sorry, chewy.
That was terrible.
Thank you for your patience.
Thank you for your patience.
We're getting through, though.
We're getting through.
This week was all about getting through.
And I'm really glad that I was able to do it.
And I want you people to see.
I want you people to see.
So look, I told you the name Christ, it's about drugs.
Now I just pulled out all the drug related material,
showed you the Christing and different kinds of Christing.
Now you know why there's an anti-Christ, right?
Which Isidore says is almond, which is cool.
But there's a way to see the anti-Christ now.
What is the anti-Christ?
It's an antidote to the Christ.
That's all.
It's an antidote to the Christ.
It's why Jesus, the Christ, needed that naked boy.
You could not have had the Garden of Gethsemane
if you did not have a naked boy.
That naked boy was the source of the antidote,
which he is ejaculating into Jesus' mouth
through a linen wrap that is impregnated
with the burning purple.
And that's why when Luke says, I don't know,
he's got this stuff, it looks like he's got sweat like blood.
You know, it's that dark color.
It's because he's involved in the right.
But it's drippy and slimy.
It's not the, it's not, obviously, it's something
that he arrived at from struggles and, you know,
et cetera, et cetera.
I don't need to let you know the finer details of what Jesus
was doing to that naked boy that he was arrested with.
There's no reason for me to talk about that.
Dan doesn't want to hear that kind of stuff.
When Dan comes up and he says, look, I've got five books.
And these five books also, the Septuagint,
was originally written in Hebrew for this reason
and that reason, right?
This is the same thing the Bible scholars have done
for the last, oh, I don't know, maybe 1,500 years.
Maybe 1,500, very consistent, very consistent people.
They always are.
Okay, here's the problem.
And this is what the video, the interview
that Danny Jones had.
This is what, and by the way, I had somebody comment to me
just today, this was the best interview
that I've ever given.
Because it set things out, Danny was able to keep me
on some kind of linear thing.
And Danny was like, you know, be direct, brah, right?
That, I really appreciate that.
I really appreciate that.
And he read the chemical muse right before then.
Right?
It does his work, brah, right?
I'm exceptionally honored to have been able to be involved.
And I thank you.
Danny, I knew that you were going to get a lot of heat.
A lot of people are praying for Danny.
Do we have a picture of Danny Jones?
Do we have a picture?
Oh, look at this.
I kind of get excited when I see Danny.
Blow that up.
I have like a good day.
I don't know what it is.
Some people have, yeah, I was trying to hide behind him.
Just some people have this.
I don't know.
He's got this thing.
I look at him.
I'm like, yeah, this is of the earth.
You know what I mean?
This is strong.
This is going to last.
I like it.
Get him down.
Get him down, Danny.
So look, to be given the opportunity
to expose people like this is perfect.
This is the sacrifice that we love.
These biblical scholars will come in
with this very same bravado.
They always do until they find out what area you study.
And then they're like, ooh, right?
This is everybody.
I'll tell you a secret.
Everybody who studies who has ever been exposed
to ancient Greek.
And this includes modern Greeks.
And I studied with modern Greeks.
I can tell you for a fact, it is humbling.
Ancient Greek is humbling 1.5 million.
That's a ton of unique words.
Think of the brain power it takes
to be able to produce that.
Just following their tracks is going to make all of us
a lot smarter.
And it seems to do that consistently through history.
As it bubbles up through the surface,
the more people open up that classical gregos.
Next thing you know, there's Renaissance and there's whatnot.
Now, we can either have that Renaissance
or we can very happily sit back and look
at characters like Dan.
And we can say, what are they doing?
I'm going to follow.
I'm going to believe.
I'm going to commit to you my faith.
And I'm going to believe that the Romans just
wouldn't do such a thing as drugs.
And I'm going to believe in the fairy tale of Jesus Christ,
who is not the guy who was arrested in a public park
at Foreham with a naked boy.
I'm going to believe in a reality that is not the real.
And you and I know we can't do that.
That's why you're here is because you want the reality.
You value history.
You worship history and you don't want the lie.
Please, please understand.
I am not the only one in this arena.
We're about to bring in Gnostic Informant, who
is just renamed Gnostic Warrior by someone.
But we'll bring him in.
We'll bring him in.
OK, make sure that we got.
I want to just end off with a couple of quotes here, people.
And I always do this, and people know it.
Oh, yeah.
Here's your thought of Semos.
What's Jesus giving to his people?
He's giving these death-inducing drugs.
People, if you want to tell grandma what Jesus Christ was,
tell her he was a guy who was arrested in a public park
with a naked kid and was handing out at some time
death-inducers.
Oh, God, you haven't been there until you've been here.
I guarantee it.
I know there's a few people out here who are like, yeah, I hear them.
Right?
Give me the next one.
Here we go.
The curative property claimed by we're going back to the gospel.
That's OK.
We're going back to the gospel.
And you'll notice that there's an attachment.
There's a connection between the gospel and drugs, right?
Because what is it, people?
That salvation is health.
And in antiquity, at different times,
it changes, and the drugs change.
Different regions change.
Depends on what markets you can get.
But there's a long tradition and antiquity
of the drugs being the source of health, right?
It's one of the major.
Galen says it's kind of the foundational branch of medicine,
is that drug work.
Love, love, oh, God, that stuff's gorgeous.
Give me, we're almost done.
Hang in there, Gnostic.
We're almost there.
Who are the Soterias?
Sorry, what's that?
OK, who are the Soterias?
They're the worshipers of Artemis, Sotera.
Did you know there was a Savior before Jesus?
Yeah, there is.
The first Savior was the first Christ.
And they called her Diana.
They called her Diana Medwa.
Oh, my God.
You mean our route from medicine comes from her name?
Yeah, I'm talking history.
History's genius, the Medea.
Yeah, she's the one who started all this.
So fantastic.
But she didn't get, unlike Jesus,
she didn't get arrested while engaging the rights
in a public park with a naked kid.
Yeah, love it.
Let's go to the next one.
Finally, I wanted to put up a couple of quotes here
for people who were emailing and telling me
all of these most excellent accounts of your awakening,
of your inspiration, of your drive,
and those who want the Greek, too.
They want to eat that real stuff straight on up.
OK, right?
We've got to stay together.
We've got to move forward.
Watch this, people.
Tales from the spectrum.
By the way, I'm not monetizing.
Devil wanted me to say that.
Damn, I forgot about that in the beginning.
Devil said, hey, you've got to tell him.
We respect the people who are saying, we respect you
for not taking paola, right?
So you'll notice that our members have gone up,
our subscribers have gone up, right?
So we've got to let people know that the only way this magic
works is if there's not a friggin' diamond vault.
Yeah, you guys.
God, can you smell it?
I think it's someone's backside.
Hit the next one.
Hit the next one.
Who is this?
Oh, God, this guy gives me the creeps, too.
OK, give me the quote.
I believe this is from Tales from the Spectrum.
Thank you.
Thank you, Tales from the Spectrum.
I believe I've identified the Antichrist.
Fantastic.
Let me know.
He's here now?
Fantastic.
He said verbatim what the Bible says he would.
I think he's talking about the interview.
I think this is about the interview.
Fantastic.
Was he there, too?
I don't know.
The camera catch that?
It's only what you can see in reflection, right?
Give me the next one.
More Ronan scholars, please.
Oh, this one.
This one made me so happy.
God, I love the spirit in this one.
Yeah.
See, here's the problem.
Institutions.
Institutions pump out people.
And it doesn't matter if their training is good or bad,
as long as they're getting paid.
That's what institutions do.
But they're artists.
And there's discipline in that artistic community.
And it's those people who end up bringing you the frontier.
It's those people.
Upholding the orthodoxy is just not
on our list of things to do.
Love it.
So you've seen Dan tonight.
You've seen the incristations and epichristations
and christians and antichristations.
And you've seen that they are drugs, Dan.
They are drugs.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
I know it's just because you haven't read these sources.
I get it.
I get it.
Totally get it.
Dan, thank you for coming tonight.
Let's let us switch now.
Here's what's going to.
Here's what I'm going to do.
I'm going to step outside because that was it.
I'm going to step outside for a minute.
And I'm going to summon some wind.
Oh, yeah.
No, I'm going to reach out there and just suck in some fresh air.
I love it.
And I'm going to give Neil time, uninterrupted,
to bring us his delightful presentation.
Hit it, Chewie.
Bring in Neil.
How are you doing?
How are you doing, Gnostic warrior?
What up?
What up?
What up?
Thanks for coming back again.
I'm crazy mystic.
Amateur mystic.
Thanks for coming back.
I'm going to be quiet now.
And I'm because you have been pumping me with stuff
that is just fantastic.
You're getting great sources.
And I asked you to please find some naked boys
in some magic text.
And you're going to do that, too.
So let's see what happens.
Yeah, when you come back, you come back,
we'll go to that stuff.
Excellent.
While you're gone, I want to give my my my thoughts
on the whole Dan McClellan situation,
Kip Davis, all that stuff.
Good, good.
But I think I feel like it's fair that we do it separately
because we don't what you say isn't necessarily
I isn't my own opinion.
What I say isn't necessarily your opinion.
We have our own thoughts.
Yeah, no, I'm yielding to you the the platform.
Now you can it's your space and people should have that.
Oh, yeah, it feels like a salon.
And now number two is up.
OK, I'm going to shut up and bounce out.
Go ahead, Joey.
All right.
So first of all, to get to get the booze out of the way,
because I'm going to I have some some things, some thoughts
that I know that I'll get some booze for and some thoughts
that I know I'll get some cheers and laughs from.
So look at the booze out of the way.
Let's get that out of the way.
The booze that you guys are all you guys
all throw your tomatoes at me for this one.
But I thought Kip Davis did a diligent and good job today
at sticking to the text and looking at the evidence
and coming up with some good arguments.
I was especially happy to see him acknowledge
that scholarship is going into a direction.
He mentioned Jonathan Adler.
He mentioned Gad Barnea.
He mentioned Russell Gilmurkin as in bringing out new peer
reviewed material and new ideas about how late are these texts
or how early are these texts?
The Hebrew Bible, the Torah, Genesis.
And he is acknowledging that it looks more and more likely
that these are Hellenistic and the least in the form
that we have it today.
Hellenistic with roots that probably go back for however
far we who knows anything's possible in that sense.
I mean, for example, we talked about this on this channel
before.
We have, for example, before I even get into I just
want to finish off the Kip thing before I get to Dan.
And we have in our possession what
is called Nestor's Cup.
So let me share my screen real quick if you don't mind.
It is this page, Wikipedia page.
Now, this is Nestor's Cup, right?
This is the Cup of Nestor.
And what is that?
All right, this is an 8th century BC Greek alphabet cup.
And what is on it is the name of a character
from Homer's Iliad, all right?
So you can't find anything like this.
There's no cup with Moses' name on it or Abraham's name on it.
You get stuff about the kings and the princes
and all that stuff that nobody denies
is legitimate historical.
But as far as anything from like Genesis or the Exodus
or the flood of Noah, there's nothing like this.
There is no cup that you could find.
Look at this.
This is what it says in Greek.
In the cup of Nestor, good for drinking.
Whoever drinks from this cup, desire
beauty for the crown, appetite, evil season.
We have this dating.
So Homer's Iliad, we date it to when
we find evidence of the text, right?
Does that make sense?
If Homer was saying, I'm a guy living in 14,000 years ago,
we wouldn't just say, oh, it's dating to that time.
For some reason with the Hebrew Bible,
that seems to be where everyone tries to go.
They're trying to find out how far back can we go,
instead of actually just dating the text to where it goes,
letting the evidence fall where it falls.
Finally, it seems like the tides are changing
and people are.
Because I've been asking this question for at least two
years now.
Yeah, I would say for about two years now,
I've been asking the question, who is citing Genesis
before 300 BC?
Can someone just show me anybody?
Mentioning, citing it, quoting from it, anything like that.
The prophets don't.
The prophets never do, ever.
So I don't know how you, I don't know why it's
taken so long for people to come around that.
But Kipp Davis came along and he gave his,
I thought he did good.
So there's, all right, throw your vegetables at me
and all that stuff, get that out the way.
But I got some stuff for Dan, though,
that it's not, it's not looking good for Dan.
All right, I got a video on the bottom.
Let's play it and we'll talk about it.
Hey everybody, something to keep in mind the next time
you see people talking about what religion does
and what problems it causes and what religion is,
is that religion does not exist outside of our discourse
about it.
It is a conceptual category that we created.
It is a map and it is not the territory.
The creation of this category really began
with medieval Islam and was taken up
within the Renaissance, the Reformation, and the Enlightenment.
Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa.
What you just heard, what just happened there?
You just, I don't know if you noticed that,
but that was, you just, that was a thousand years
you just skirted past like it was one year.
This is something that was taken up
in the early medieval Islam and then the Renaissance
and the Enlightenment.
Whoa, what the hell, was it, you have a time machine?
You just went from the 7th century
all the way to the 13th, 14th century,
that all the way to the 7th, 16th, and,
what you just, what are you doing?
Well, how do you just say that's so nonchalant?
You know, in terms of the thing called religion
is something that was just some random thing that,
you know, just Islam and medieval and,
whoa, you just went through a thousand years right there.
That's a, you can't just skirt past that
like it was like a decade.
Like you, you can say that for like, I don't know.
You know, there was this one mystery cult
that sprung up in Ephesus, near Ephesus.
And it was around for, you know, half a century or something.
That's what you could say that, but like,
you can't just skirt past a thousand years of time,
7th century to the, to the Renaissance,
all the way to the Enlightenment.
You're very, you just passed through a thousand years.
All right, let's continue.
I'll get to why this is a,
that's not really the bad part though.
The bad, the reason why I'm bringing up
this video is because his criticism of Amon
can be directly pointed at him for his arguments
for what the term religion means.
I'll show you what.
And it was primarily a tool that European Protestant Christians
used to help them understand this new world
that they were discovering around them.
And so in many ways.
I kind of agree with that, but I don't,
we'll just, let's let it rock for a second.
Does it not play?
Did it freeze?
Looks like it froze.
Look at him.
Hey, Dan, he looks concerned and so in many ways.
All right, you know what?
I might have to play this from a different player
because I think it's downloading on your end.
And it's fine.
I can figure this out.
Just bring it down.
I'll bring it back up in a second.
It'll be no problem.
I can fix this.
And then I can,
we're just gonna play the whole video through
and not pause them anymore.
And I have, and that's what we'll do.
All right?
Let me say a song and dance while you prep that.
While you prep that.
Are you ready to go?
Me?
Yeah.
Everybody's something?
I'm ready to go.
Okay, go for it.
Keep going.
All right.
Oh, wait, hold on.
I have to remove this from the stage first.
All right.
Go ahead, sing your song and dance.
All right, go ahead.
Here we go, people.
The whole thing that I wanted to make sure people got
was that this is intentional obfuscation, right?
Creating a false world
where your people don't apply to the people around you.
This is a monist virus in the brain of humanity.
As soon as a society goes monist,
you lose that classical wisdom
and out go the libraries, out go the reason,
out goes the discovery.
Oh, I'm getting there.
I'm getting there.
You'll see when I get there.
Play this clip.
Hold that thought,
because I'm gonna get there.
This has to do with the very fabric,
the very definition of religion.
It's funny that this is the thing that he's talking about
and basing a lot of his,
he had a whole course on this.
And we seem to be on exact opposite ends of this.
And I think it has to do with a world,
it has to do with worldview in a lot of ways.
So what you just said is going to be,
it's going to end up being very crucial to all of this.
It has to do with, you'll see.
Actually, I'm getting ahead of myself.
Let me just, let me play this clip and we'll go.
But it's something to keep in mind
the next time you see people talking
about what religion does and what problems it causes
and what religion is,
is that religion does not exist
outside of our discourse about it.
It is a conceptual category that we created.
It is a map and it is not the territory.
The creation of this category really began
with medieval Islam and was taken up
within the Renaissance, the Reformation and the Enlightenment.
And it was primarily a tool
that European Protestant Christians used
to help them understand this new world
that they were discovering around them.
And so in many ways, our concept of religion today
can be reduced to an essence of
whatever sufficiently resembles Protestant Christianity.
And this is the way that Brent Nongri phrased it
in his wonderful book, Before Religion.
And so when people talk about religion,
usually it's a conceptual proxy for Protestant Christianity.
It's an attempt to generalize from Protestant Christianity
to all other religions.
But we can't really define religion
in a way that is analytically useful.
This is a debate that's been going on
for many years within the scholarship.
And we have just not found a definition
that reduces everything that is labeled religion
to any kind of short list of necessary and sufficient features.
And that's because the concept did not develop
with reference to necessary and sufficient features.
It is not learned and it is not used
with reference to necessary and sufficient features.
And if you want to look at the scholarship
that has been discussing this for many decades now,
here's some things you can look up.
Let me, let me, can you hear me?
Yeah, this is the part that I want to really focus on.
And finally, if you go to my link tree,
there's a PDF called Religion,
and then in brackets it says Draft.
This is a draft of a chapter
from my doctoral dissertation from several years ago
that I ended up cutting from the dissertation.
I didn't submit it because it was too bulky
and it was unnecessary,
but the whole chapter is basically discussing
the concept of religion, how it was created,
how people attempt to...
Okay, so this is the part that really got me going
about...
All right, so this is...
No, no, no, no, wait, wait, can I just say
I wanted to kill myself halfway into that.
Yeah, it...
Oh my God.
But this...
Go ahead, go ahead, I want to shut up.
I had to get to this part
because I checked this article,
this dissertation that he wrote.
And it seems like he was really...
Okay, I'm just gonna say this off the front
and I'm gonna take you,
I'm gonna put my money where my mouth is,
explain to you why I think this.
I don't think he went into this
looking blindly like a scientist would
and gathered and just let the data decide
what the outcome was.
He went into this trying to make...
Well, maybe trying to argue what his dissertation was,
trying to find the data that supports
whatever argument he was making.
And what he tried to criticize you for
is actually what he's doing here.
So I'm going to share my screen
and this is the dissertation right here.
So this is what he does, this was kind of crazy.
He defines the word, it's about the word religion.
Remember, he said he cut this from his dissertation
so it didn't actually get into his dissertation
but he has it on his website.
And he mentions it in that video.
Now, if you actually, I'm not gonna read the whole thing
but I really, you know, I would say
if anyone's really interested, read it, why not?
See where I'm at, see where he's at,
let's then decide for yourself what's going on here.
The part that really got me to wanna bring this up today
in context to why he's being a hypocrite
for what he's saying about you
is right around where he decides to do an etymology
of the word religion right here.
The purpose of this section is to outline
the process by which modern concept
of religion is developed.
And he says, I briefly outlined the process
of reification as is understood by scholars today,
arranging discussion about the history
of the etymological origin of the English word religion.
In the Latin religio, several words appeared
to have been used in Greek and Latin antiquity
to refer to concepts variously associated
with the modern notion of religion.
For example, pietus, fides, lex, secta, cultus, colore,
threschia, by the way, I gotta do something first.
Somebody sent me a screenshot, right before I went on
with you, someone sent me this screenshot.
And first of all, let me pull this up
because we have to put a pause in this for a second.
I'm gonna come back to this dissertation,
but you're gonna die when you see this.
You're gonna die.
Okay, I don't wanna spoil your surprise,
but I see it coming.
Yeah, and you're right, you're right.
Oh God, keep going, keep going, hang it up.
So here is, someone sent me this screenshot earlier.
Right before, this is right before I got on with you.
And it's someone from, it's a screenshot from a chat
that was, I don't know where.
I have no idea where this is from, actually, to be honest.
But it's funny because it's so typical, Dan.
Are you serious?
You think a person with four degrees
required ancient Greek who spent almost 10 years
supervising the modern Greek translation
of the Book of Mom and regularly visited Greece
doesn't know the Greek?
Are you honestly thinkin' that?
I mean, it doesn't sound like that,
but that's my impression of someone
who fucking talks like this.
Like that is not an argument.
That's a fucking, I don't know,
maniac thing to say to somebody.
How dare you question my Greek?
I spent 10 years supervising the modern Greek translation
of the Mom and Bible.
Fuck you, dude.
You sound like a fucking douchebag.
Okay, okay, okay.
The reason why I had to bring this up.
Yes.
He does this all the time.
He just, he uses credentials at everything.
He'll have a video, he'll be fucking a video.
Yeah.
He'll just say, this is literally false and preposterous.
And here's 10 books that I never read
or you're never gonna read that agree with me on this.
But he won't, he'll just assert,
he does a lot of assertions.
He never really gives arguments.
You notice this.
He did this with you in the first video.
Yeah.
The one, not the Christ one.
What was the first one about again?
Oh, God, I don't remember.
Oh, the Greek translation, the Greek translation.
Can I say that, Nia, let me interrupt.
Cause I don't want to miss this.
I'm flowing, but go ahead.
Look at the, no, you're flowing.
And I don't want to interrupt it,
but look, he regularly visited Greece.
Somehow he thinks his walking around modern Greece
is going to allow him to absorb Homer and Pendar.
I don't know.
I don't know what you're smoking, guy.
You're gonna laugh when you see this.
You're going to laugh and you see this.
Because in that dissertation,
well, first of all, I got to say this first.
When he, the first video he did about you,
I give it a zero.
I'm giving, I told, am I right?
I told you, I told you, Kip, Kip did great today.
I give Kip, I don't even give any,
Kip got a hundred in my eyes.
I know you, you could disagree with that.
I'm just saying, I liked Kip's video today.
Thought the energy was good.
And I thought it was great.
Dan's first video against you, zero, zero.
You want to know why he gets a zero?
He didn't give any arguments.
All he did was say, and here's five books
that no one, none of you are ever gonna read.
And I'm just gonna gas like the whole public
and make him think that they're, I'm right.
Cause I have a PhD.
Bro, that's not an argument.
That's an assertion and it's nothing.
At the end of the day, we're back at square one
because all you, you're making an assertion.
And by the way, you gave arguments.
You gave multiple words.
The Theosobase thing, that was a good argument.
I thought it was very convincing.
Theosobase is a technical term in Greek.
It's right.
It comes in the Hebrew in two different words.
I thought that was a good argument.
Dan didn't do anything like that.
By the way, Kip actually did give some examples.
He said the word Pascha, a couple other words.
He gave some arguments.
Fuck yeah, let's do that.
That's what this is supposed to be about.
Bring an argument.
Dan didn't bring shit.
All Dan did is say, no, no, no, here's five books
that no one's gonna read.
All right.
Anyways, let's put that aside for now.
Okay, let me say something, let me say something.
I just want you to know that in that second clip
that you showed him where he was babbling on
about religion, I swear that is a hypnotic drug
that religion departments have developed over time.
It's a logos that they use to low,
well, it lulls me into like, you know,
first it creates and then it makes me sleepy.
I don't know why.
But you have to understand too
that there is a lot, there is a lot of bad work.
There is a lot, you don't understand it.
If you don't understand the lingo,
you don't understand that when one scientist
has really gone wrong and the others
are all trying to correct them,
that's the problem with the theology people
is that they have to prop up that theology.
Can you just tell me, Neil, really quick,
SBC is what, explain that to me again?
SBC?
Yeah, yeah, what is SBC?
SBL, you mean?
Whatever, it dance associated with it.
Oh, SBC is one of his prestigious groups.
One of his prestigious groups.
They suck.
The whole point of them is just to,
I mean, they'll, if the facts are brute,
they have to, like their whole thing is like,
what can we get away with?
How early can we date the text?
Let's see, how early?
Let's try to get it to the Iron Age.
Let's try to get it there.
That's what they're doing.
You could just, so obvious,
they're trying to please all the Christians
and they're trying to sell Christianity
to liberal audiences.
But the Bible really isn't that anti-gay, guys.
It's really not.
It's really actually really progressive.
No, it's not, fuck that, it's fucking sucks.
And it's dated to the Hellenistic period
as you're going to find out.
But when I drop my video with Gad Barnea,
we blow it out the water for two and a half hours.
Anyways, pull up my screen, please.
So, okay, so the reason why I wanted to show you that
is little, I, how dare you question my Greek skills?
Because right here, there's a word in Greek.
You see that word?
Let me see if I can zoom in a little bit
so everybody can see it.
You see it?
Thresgeia.
What is that?
It looks like Thresgeia,
but I don't know, I'm not really sure.
And then I'm thinking to myself,
maybe it's a Koine version of some word.
Maybe it's a different version of the word Thresgeia
that I'm thinking of,
because that's a word for religion, right?
And I asked my friend who knows modern Greek.
Is this how you spell it in modern Greek?
He said, no.
Check this out, ready?
I'm gonna come back to this
and I gotta go back to,
I gotta go back to my other folder.
Just give me a second.
All right, so back to this folder, right?
Look, if you put that word into the any lexicon,
this is Perseus Tufts.
This has, Perseus Tufts has all the lexicons rolled into one.
That's why we call it Alice, baby.
No information found.
That's not a fucking word, dude.
He spelled it wrong.
How dare you question my Greek?
Bro, you spelled Thresgeia wrong.
It's not a word.
You don't know fucking Greek.
Spelled it wrong, dude.
Here's how you really spell it within Heita, all right?
So what does it mean?
It means religious worship.
Now, isn't that funny?
Isn't that funny that this word means religious worship?
That's how it's used in Greek.
You see, you got Herodotus, twice.
What is this?
You got the book of Acts uses it.
Ephesians uses it.
So Christians are using this shit out of this word.
Huh, why wouldn't we talk about this word?
All right, let's just put this aside for now.
Let's go back to the article, if you don't mind.
All right, getting all fired up over here.
So back to the article.
This is what he's saying here.
He says this, you spelled the word wrong,
but he's saying all those words, Elsebia,
which is another word we use that can translate
to religious or pious or, yeah, religious, all right?
He says, this is what he says.
He just fucking says, for example, all of these words
that we use for, all of these words that I just named
that form the basis of the meaning
of the English word religion, just ignore all that shit
because I am just gonna focus on this one Latin word,
religio, right?
So he's only gonna focus on this word, religio,
but not only that, this is what he does.
This is why he's a hypocrite for calling you out.
He decides to use three examples
of the word religio used by Plotus,
he uses the word Plotus, Julius Caesar, and Cicero,
while Lucretius prajoratively described it as a synonym.
Okay, so maybe four, but mostly three.
He's saying, okay, Cicero, you,
religio is a virtue that was contrasted with superstitio.
For Caesar, it's an obligation of an oath, right?
Okay, Plotus uses this word.
He calls me back directly and invites me to dinner.
Yeah, I had scruples, religio, and I could not decline.
So like oaths and obligations, right?
And then Cicero, okay, he uses these three.
Why are you cherry picking those three
when you just criticize Amon, ready for this?
Here is the Perseus Tufts.
So we're using Lewis and Short, lexicon.
Here's the word religio, and look how many times
it's used for reverence for the gods.
Look at this.
One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine,
10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19.
Why didn't you talk about any of those usage of the word?
Why did you just pick three, cherry pick three
random usages of the word?
Now, I get what you're trying to do.
You're trying to show, look, the word religio
was used in different contexts during the ancient world.
We don't use the word religion the same way they do.
That's because religion is English and religio is Latin.
And the reason why this is a stupid argument
is because you wouldn't do the same thing for scientia,
scientia.
The word science comes from the Latin word scientia,
which means knowing or being skilled in anything,
knowledge, right?
Here's a cicero, right?
Cicero, let's go with cicero.
You want us to talk about cicero,
let's talk about cicero, right?
Cicero uses the word right here.
He says,
ought scutere is theorem, where I suck at Latin.
Nehil ought etiamici maximae siemias, all right?
Now, if you check this with this,
you know, I'm being honest, I'm not a Latin guy,
but I know what this translates to.
I can look it up because other people have done it before me.
It says either we know nothing about such things
or even if we know them thoroughly,
we cannot be better or happier because of that knowledge.
Basically, scientias is the Latin version
of the Greek word gnosis, it means knowledge.
That's it.
We use the word science way different
than the Latin uses the word scientias, right?
But where's Dan at trying to tell everybody
we shouldn't use the word science anymore
because it doesn't mean what it used to mean, right?
Because that's not a worthy dissertation
because it doesn't do anything,
because nobody would care.
Everyone would just ignore it.
But the fact of the matter is
this is stupid dissertation anyways
because this is actually a funny thing that happened.
It's very comedic, it's very,
what happened with this is actually very hilarious.
So there was actually a time where Dan tried to police
the usage of this word on the internet.
So let me share my screen one more time.
I have another screenshot, this happened a while ago.
There was a debate between a Christian
and David McDonald's, pretty good debate.
And I was in the chat and I decided, I said, look,
from once I agree with the Christian here,
I said, religion has the public service of giving people
an outlet to grieve loved ones who pass away.
This is something that I don't think anyone can disagree with.
And then this is, that's, wait a minute.
He just used the word religion
in a context that I don't agree with.
I got to police the internet now.
He says, religion doesn't exist outside of discourse.
So it's not doing anything at all.
And then the funny part about this is, wrong way.
The funny part about this is two seconds later,
other people in the chat are using the word religion.
Religion isn't a direct correlation to a lower aggression.
We don't see higher aggression.
And then Ember disagreed with me politely.
I don't think religion, let alone any specific religion,
should get credit for human grief.
That's part of human being.
Now listen, we all know what they mean by that.
None of us are thinking in ourselves,
well, Cicero would have used the word religion difference.
So Ember, you shouldn't have said it that way.
You should change whatever you said
to worship of the gods or something.
No, because that's incoherent.
And that's not how language works.
People, we decide how we determine what words mean.
And words change over time.
Right now, when I say the word religion,
people know what I mean by it.
They don't think that I'm talking about an obligation
for like a Caesar used it.
They think I'm talking about worship of certain gods,
attending a certain church or a synagogue or a Buddhist temple.
People know what religion means,
because that's how we use it.
Now, I have one more thing that I want to present.
Oh, a couple of things actually.
Beautiful, beautiful text from my boy here.
Speaking of the Renaissance,
because I think this word is very well defined in my opinion,
and I disagree with what Dan's trying to do with this word.
I think his dissertation sucks.
I think the way he tries to redefine words
by going back to the ancient past
and trying to bring the context
of what they talked about in the ancient past
into today's world is dumb.
I don't know what, it doesn't have any,
it just doesn't seem useful at all.
People, when we say monotheism, we know what that means.
We know there is no pure monotheism anywhere.
Even Islam isn't really purely monotheistic.
There's gin, there's spirits, there's the devil,
Hashatan, all that stuff.
We know there's no pure monotheism,
but we know when you say monotheism,
you know what it means.
We know it means that there's one eternal creator
who's perfect and infallible,
and all the spirits are, that's what monotheism means.
Let's not play, and I'm gonna get back to that in a second.
My boys, Brumie and Flavio,
from the 14th and 15th century,
along with Machiavelli and Petrarch.
This is who I've been reading in the last couple days,
or last couple of weeks.
Right now, I'm into Flavio.
Beyondo Flavio, I'm reading him right now,
because I'm working on a video,
and I'm actually glad that this all happened
between Amon and Dan, because I was originally making
a video dealing with some of the stuff
that I disagree with Dan on, but I'd rather do it here,
because this video's turning into
a really deep anthropology video that I'm working on.
It's gonna be a big documentary about what is religion.
And I found the most beautiful, beautiful definition
of religion from a Renaissance writer who used,
by the way, Petrarch, Flavio, and Brumie and Machiavelli,
they all used the term dark ages to refer to
the period between 500 AD and 1000 AD.
And the reason why the scholars today hate that shit,
I think Dan's one of those people who fight against that,
and they're, no, that's incorrect, dark ages,
it wasn't really that dark, it was actually pretty bright.
No, fuck that, I agree with the Renaissance people.
I agreed that it was dark ages,
and there's only one reason why.
I don't care about technology, I don't care about logistics,
I don't care about how cool their churches looked,
I don't give a shit about how beautiful
they'd have a crucifixes and all that stuff.
There was no fucking text, no classical literature
between 500 and 1000, zero.
You cannot compare Cicero, you cannot compare,
you cannot compare Ovid and Virgil and Homer and Plato
and Socrates and Hypatia and Sappho,
you can't compare them.
There's no comparison to all of those amazing,
brilliant thinkers and writers of the classical antiquity,
compare it to anyone between 500 and 1000 AD.
Fucking dark ages, bro, period, facts.
And so this dude says this so well, he says what he says.
Religio, Nonius Marcellus writes,
is the worship of the gods.
According to Plutarch, in the life of Emilius Paulus,
the philosophers and all other ancestors
defined it as knowledge of divine matters.
Paulus Galeus says that Marcus Cicero
in a speech on the appointing of a prosecutor
maintains that shrines full of majesty and awe
are called religiosa.
And Sabinus thinks that religiosis is what,
which because of some quality of holiness
has been removed instead of part from us.
The term being derived from leaving behind relinquir.
Sulpish, or Servius Sulpishus thought that religiosis
is that which, because of some quality of holiness,
has derived its name from to remove.
And Pompeius Festus says,
religiosi are those who distinguish
between the things that are to be done
and the things that are to be avoided.
Now that is a good etymology dig for religion.
Done a, how many years before Dan did it?
800 years before Dan did it.
And it's not enlightenment.
And this is before the fucking Protestant Reformation.
So this is already, these ideas are already way
before the Protestant Reformation.
There's nothing to do with that.
And by the way, all, and Dan is actually,
Dan is making this weird argument
that this term religion only somehow helps
Protestant Christians in the modern age.
And he says in his article,
it says only for like white males specifically,
which is weird.
It's in the article, you'll see that.
But the term for religion in Arabic is widely used
in the same context that we use.
It's called Dean, D-I-I-N or however it's spelled
in Arabic, Dean.
And that's the term that we would translate
into English as religion.
And it's used in the exact same context.
So you're actually, what you're doing is
you're taking the context away from the whole world,
basically, and just saying, and just trying to hone in
on these was one little group of people
as if it only helps them.
I think you're putting your politics
into this shit too much, dude.
I don't find that a fair argument.
Okay, I'm gonna bust in
because I wanna make a comment.
And I need to say that Chewie is very quick on the trigger
and was trying to shoot somebody in the chat
and missed and hit somebody else.
And for that person who was hit,
oh, it's Dave Hawthorne.
Dave, I'm so sorry, Chewie blasted you,
but you got a big laser hole right in your chest, buddy.
If we can bring you back from the dead, we will.
But we weren't shooting, Chewie wasn't shooting for you.
Keep the chat in a place that is appropriate
for the slawn, baby, right?
Or Chewie is armed and ready.
You see that bow thing?
Woo!
All right, sorry.
I wanna say about what you were just doing, Neil.
First of all, it was a little hard to watch.
It was a little hard to watch.
I gotta admit, I mean, I took my turn.
You took your turn.
And boy, by the end of it, it must be sore.
It must really be sore.
What I saw you do was what a good dissertation committee
will do, right?
You have to get that dissertation
to the raw point of perfection.
And somebody who's gonna step up,
put some Greek up there and misspell it.
That's, you know, come on, man.
Especially when you get that offended
about how great your Greek is.
Are you?
For 10 years, for 10 years.
Yeah.
Did I tell you about the back and forth that I had
when I, with him on X on Twitter?
No, tell me about the back and forth.
Can I just throw a couple more screenshots?
Oh yeah, no, I'm out.
I just wanted to pop in for a second.
This is funny.
People are gonna like this.
Because I brought some shit to him on Twitter
that he just had to stop listening.
He had to stop replying because he knew, he tapped out.
It was game over for this dude.
So I, you know, I followed Dan.
I actually learned a lot from Dan McClellan,
believe it or not.
Especially on the Hebrew, Old Testament stuff.
I wanna know, I'm trying to learn
as much as I can from everybody.
But I noticed something.
Oh, this is the wrong slide.
Oh, here it is.
Dan McClellan, there was a post where he,
I have a screenshot of it here somewhere.
Sorry about that.
Let me just, did I really not save it?
Oh, here we go.
Okay, I got it now.
So Dan McClellan was refuting a Christian.
And the Christian made this point.
And I thought this was kind of dumb at first.
I just didn't know, understand what the argument was.
Some Christian named Chris Cougler said
that Paul didn't believe in only,
of course Paul didn't believe in only one God.
But he did believe in a cosmogonical first principle
that was distinct from all other reality,
not in degree, but in kind.
No.
Bravo to you, Chris, because you read the sources.
And maybe he doesn't.
Maybe he just got lucky, I don't know.
But if you read the sources,
you would know that that was the dominant philosophy
in the first century under the middle Platonism of the day.
Middle Platonism, for those who don't know,
was the leading philosophical dominance of thought.
All over the Mediterranean,
which combines Plato's philosophy of the Demiurge,
the perfect God, you created everything.
Mixed with the Stoic logos,
who's also a monistic, maybe even,
yeah, monistic God.
Sometimes they call the noose, the mind,
or the archaic, the first.
It comes from the pre-Socratics.
Comes from Afton's baby.
Now, if you don't read fucking the classical sources,
you wouldn't know this.
And I said, this is Dan showing off
that he doesn't know classical sources.
Because this is, I'm telling you,
I wish I can describe this better, if you know, you know.
But you never heard someone try to just explain,
I don't know, Star Wars or something.
And they pretend to be an expert in Star Wars.
But then they say like Jabba the Hoot,
or they say like some name wrong or something.
Or they get something wrong
that's so like, so sophomoric.
It's like, wait, did you even watch that movie?
How did you not even know this?
That's what Dan's doing right here.
This is on full display.
Because anyone who reads the fucking text
from the first century, or the first century BC,
or the second century BC, or the third century BC,
even in the fourth century BC,
you will find in theologians and philosophers,
there's an idea of an archaic, the first, the one.
The monad, as he's described in the Chaldean oracles,
the monad, who splits his dyad into two, becomes a triad.
And this is influencing Trinitarian theology.
Now, am I just connecting the two?
Because I feel like it, no, we have Christian sources
called the Valentinians, who are prominent
in the first half of the second century,
who believe that Christ and Zoe, Logos and Zoe,
as in John 1 describes, if you read it in the Greek,
Dan should know this, if you read the John 1 in the Greek,
you get, Theos creates the world through a Logos
who splits off a dyad as Zoe, life,
that's translated into life.
The Valentinians argue that that's a triad
in the Pythagorean sense.
And he was charged by Hippolytus in the late second century
with plagiarizing Pythagoras.
This is how we know this is our Greek ideas.
Anyways, so Dan comes along and thinks,
this is a retrogration of later philosophical frameworks
onto Paul's writings.
For instance, it presupposes creation ex nihilo, huh?
Which is an ideology that wouldn't be created
until over a century after Paul's death.
People need to think more critically
about what monotheism is.
Now, this is strange because the guy didn't even say anything
about monotheism, and he didn't even say anything
about creation from nothing,
which is what creation ex nihilo is.
Which is technically is a doctrine
from a theophilus of Antioch in the late second century,
which is what Dan probably read somewhere
and just asserted that that's gotta be
the only time it just invented from thin air.
Like there's no ideas that preceded.
Just this guy was a genius.
He just out of thin air invented this new doctrine,
but it's such a weird thing to say to this guy.
So, okay, so I have my things backwards.
You just gotta, here we go.
So I come in and somebody asked Dan McClellan,
they go, hey, Dan, isn't it possible
that creation ex nihilo was,
I think they said something along the lines
of like not necessary for Paul,
or there could be similar ideas to this?
He said something like that.
I didn't have that part screen check.
I don't really care what the person said,
but Dan's response was anything is possible.
But the overwhelming consensus,
I hate when he says that,
the overwhelming consensus is not an argument, by the way.
It's an assertion.
But the overwhelming consensus is that the Christians
developed it in the late second century
during debates with Gnostics and other Greek thinkers.
Whoa, that's a really sophomoric phrase right there.
Debates with Gnostics, what?
What did I just say?
What the fuck do you not know Christian history?
Not debates with Gnostics.
What is this like 1940 scholarship right here?
I thought we were way past the Gnostic thing.
Because that's a, first of all,
that happened in the early second century,
not the late second century.
And they're not Gnostics, they're just fucking Christians.
We call them Gnostics.
They call them Gnostics later.
So there's so much wrong in what you just said there.
So much wrong when you just said there.
So I come in, this is what I said.
Anything's possible.
How about maybe read the primary sources and check?
This is laughably wrong.
In order to be this off,
one must have gone their whole PhD career
without reading any primary sources
of the theologians and philosophers of the time of Paul.
Just because Theophilus of Antioch
was the first to articulate this as Caratio ex nihilo
in the 160s, does not mean that he just invented it
from thin air.
This is typical of Middle Potonic theology,
a combination of the Stoic logos with Plato's Demiurge.
Easily found, easily found.
You could just find sources all over.
El Canus is a big source, Plutarch talks about.
Anyway, I'll just keep reading.
And even in some degree, going back,
easily found in the writings of Philo,
his first century BC writer and first century CE writer.
He's at the turn of the century.
Writings of Philo and other middle Platonists.
And even in some degree, going back to Plato's Timaeus.
Everyone, by the way, if you haven't read Plato's Timaeus,
don't call yourself a scholar of religion.
Don't call yourself a theology major.
Stop.
Call yourself something else.
Because if you don't know Plato's Timaeus,
then you don't know the whole roots of Western theology.
You don't know the roots of monotheism at all.
You need to just stop.
You need to go back to school.
And let me finish this off before you say something
on that, all right?
As the idea develops over the course of many centuries,
just looking up, when was Curatio ex nihilo a Christian
doctrine, doesn't explain where this idea comes from.
And Paul's theology was certainly
influenced by middle Platonism.
By the way, you could tell, not just by how the way,
you could tell by the way Paul's ideas and Paul's aesthetic,
Paul's morals, all middle Platonists, all of it.
Also debates with Gnostics, that happened
in the early second century, not late second century.
And nobody called themselves Gnostics.
They were just Christians with various beliefs,
some emphasis on Gnosis and some of the groups.
This whole post sounds uninformed in many ways.
Now, before you say something, if I
was to make a list of all the major Gnostic thinkers,
all of them are dead by 160, Marcian, Valentinus,
the Carpocrates, Basilides.
Most of them are dead before the second century
even started, Saturnius, Simon Megas.
Most of them are dead.
Most of them didn't even make it to the second century.
The roots of it is first century.
They're all dead by the year 150, 144, 160.
So it's like, wait a minute.
How many of these people came back from the dead, Dan,
to debate creation ex nihilo?
You don't know what you're talking about.
All right, did you want to say something?
I just wanted to say congratulations
for towing the line.
It's not over yet, of course.
You know what I mean?
No, but I think it's important to realize, look what you're doing.
You're taking a critical look at the work,
and you're dealing it from the perspective of those sources.
I just want you to know I'm digging your work.
This is where the gaslighting comes in.
This is where the typical Dan comes in.
Typical, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh,
I'm a Mormon.
Dan comes in after I just threw all the primary sources
down his throat.
He comes in and says, I've read the primary sources
many times, which I can tell he hasn't because he wouldn't
have said that.
Just straight up fact.
Doesn't follow.
That's not logic.
You wouldn't have said what you fucking said
if you read the primary sources.
Duh!
I've read the primary sources many times,
and I'm representing the overwhelming consensus,
the overwhelming consensus.
You can check out May, Hubla, Winston V. Goldstein,
and more recently, even Anderson and Brickmeal
to read about the primary sources that you've misread.
To be promotion, promoting creation.
By the way, I never promoted a creation ex nihilo.
You're the one that brought that up.
I just said, you don't fucking need it.
Dummy?
All right.
Before I even checked any of those fucking names
that he threw at me in an attempt to gaslight,
I didn't care because I know the primary sources,
and they didn't change because you just threw some books
at me.
They're still there, and they still say the same things.
Dan, that's how history works.
It's stuck, frozen.
History doesn't change.
We can play definition games, and nothing changes in the past,
except how we look at it.
So here's what I said.
Listing a bunch of scholars' names in some attempt
to gaslight does not somehow erase the primary sources
like Plato, Aristotle, Philo, Plutarch,
and forming groups like the Hypsisterians
with concepts of an eternal perfect creator,
just as Plato talks about in Timaeus.
And this was present in middle Platonism,
long before Horatio Exnihilo was an official doctrine.
Again, Horatio Exnihilo wasn't invented from thin air.
It was preceded by these doctrines,
and I know this because I didn't read the fucking sources.
From the primary sources, you don't read, Dan.
The comment you tried to refute was not
about when Horatio Exnihilo became a doctrine
in Christianity.
The comment was about what Paul believed about God.
And you can't say that these ideas came later.
That would be admitting that you are not aware of the sources.
Then I went and looked.
First book, so he gave me May was the first one.
And I know, let's see, maybe I'm wrong.
Maybe Mr. PhD with his fucking 10 years of teaching Greek,
maybe he's right and I'm wrong.
Let's see, let's read the fucking shit
that he gave me to read.
The first fucking page I opened up was literally,
literally mentions all the sources that I mentioned.
It mentions Philo.
It says, he opens up a question.
Is it true that Philo already had something similar
to creation exnihilo in the first century BC?
We're going to talk about that.
And then it says, oh, of course, we have to talk about Plato's
Tameis as well.
All of it was right there in the fucking first page.
I couldn't believe it.
So I had to come back to Dan.
24 hours later, I came back to Dan.
I said, Dan, after checking into some of the names you listed,
the real question is, did you read them?
May immediately begins to discuss Plato's Tameis
and the question of, did Philo already teach creation out
of nothing?
And how Plato's was interpreted by facilities,
first century Christian, not late second century Christian.
You're off by about 100 years there,
interpreted by facilities.
By the way, the Megas Archon, that's a Braxis baby.
First second century Christian, the logo of my channel,
that's a Braxis, that's the Megas Archon.
He's the eternal, perfect God that created everything.
You cannot say that you don't need,
there's no requirement for creation Xthilo
by facilities as doctrine.
He already has it there.
It's in the sources, read Hippolytus, read Irenaeus.
The first second century Christian,
he even has a chapter about Theophilus of Antioch,
who he says is responding to these ideas.
Nothing so far suggests that the idea
of a single perfect eternal creator
requires the doctrine of creation Xthilo.
You can reject Philo and Plato as holding to,
you can reject that Philo and Plato
hold an identical doctrine of CEN, creation Xthilo,
but you still can't reject that eternal perfect one
is not something already dominant by Paul's time.
This is so bad, this is when I decided,
I gotta, this has gotta make a video.
I got, cause you know, Dan, you can go after low,
hanging fruit TikToks all day long,
but as soon as someone comes along
and challenges you, you get quiet.
Cause he didn't ever respond to that last post
about what I said, bro, you were wrong
and I was right, the sources, he never responds to that.
He's done talking after that.
But one of his colleagues, Jason Staples,
who's a big time biblical scholar,
big time biblical scholar, he came along,
jumps out of the woodwork and says,
Dan, I am exceedingly unpersuaded by that last statement.
What is the evidence that Christian monotheism,
by the way, everyone knows what he means by that.
So who gives a fuck how you define this word?
I knew what he meant by that.
The idea that the Christian God is the high God,
qualitatively different from everything else,
requires Horatio Xthilo?
It certainly isn't logically so logistically required.
So his own colleague comes in and fucking checks his ass.
And so Dan does respond to him, but not me.
He says, the Enlightenment Christians who coin,
we're already back in the Enlightenment again.
The Enlightenment Christians who coin the term
treated the notion of matter existing eternally
independent free and irreconcilable with monotheism
as have most Christians since then.
Then scholars started arguing creation Xthilo
isn't in the Bible and things changed.
What the fuck was that?
You just dodged the whole question.
Nobody gives up.
We're not talking about how to define monotheism.
We're not talking about what Enlightenment Christians
decided the monotheism was.
We're talking about Paul and what Paul believed in God.
Does it require creation Xthilo or no?
It doesn't.
If you knew the sources, this would be a done deal.
We're done.
But you're just completely dodged that question.
So then he says, so is it monotheism for Christians
has always required creation Xthilo?
Look, he could tell he's confused.
What the fuck?
Or just since the Enlightenment, I'm a little confused here.
Or is it just the term monotheism itself we're talking about?
No, that's it.
Dan never responds to that.
Never, he's done.
He just taps out.
He just pretends it never happened.
He's gone.
You know how Dan responds to everything on X
or on fucking TikTok?
Doesn't, he can respond to fucking Almond today.
Why is he still hasn't responded to this?
So this is the last thing I said,
and I left it along after this.
I said, Dan, are you all right?
Should we get you some help?
Talk about gish galloping.
Holy moly.
You keep going off into areas that have nothing to do
with anything that was said by the comment
or my response to you.
None of this has anything to do with Paul
and first century middle Platonism.
We can play a defined monotheism game all we want
at these stupid conferences that no one cares about.
I certainly don't care about them.
I don't care how you define monotheism.
I don't give a shit.
All I care about is what does the text say?
We can play definition games all we want.
I don't care.
It's stupid.
That's why I think your dissertation was stupid
about religion.
I think it's dumb.
Who cares?
None of that will change what happened in the past
and rewrite what people believed.
So again, for the fifth time,
based on what every single person who studied 101
ancient philosophy and theology already knows,
why does the belief in a perfect eternal one
is distinct from other daemon slash deities
require curatio ex nihilo?
The answer is it doesn't.
And anyone who actually reads the primary sources
about this period could tell you this.
Dan never replied, tapped out, done, gave up
because he knows he's done.
And that's the end of that story.
Wow.
Okay, now for those of us who, okay,
we've got to call the match and what we see.
Then we're going to say it like it is here in the museum.
By the way, I had 140 people are watching this shit right now.
Yeah, no, thank you for the people who are coming,
new people, Lady Babylon.
Yeah.
And by the way, to the guy that we executed accidentally,
Chewie, be better with your blaster.
What you've done is I really, really like the fact
that you're drawing it all back to those primaries.
And this is the real problem.
When Dan wants to erect a boundary
between Christians and non-Christians
living at the very same time, or Jesus
and those people around him,
this is what the theology has given us.
It's tamped down, you know, Julian,
do you think Julian was right after all that,
you know, as a means of calm down after the fight,
which by the way, it was gruesome, bro.
It was gruesome, remind me to bring you along.
You can, you know, we can watch each other's back.
I appreciate that.
And you're flying with some serious skill.
So thank you for being a participant.
But tell me this,
is there something in the theology degree?
Is there something in the religious history degree?
Is there something in the fabric of the discipline
that causes you to produce somebody
who's gonna make, you know,
who's gonna make big assertions
without, you know, really looking at evidence?
You're, tell me, this is what I'm asking.
This is what I want your perspective on.
You're coming at these sources new
in the last couple of years, right?
And you have managed to saturate,
I don't know how much time you sleep,
but you've managed to saturate yourself
when you're throwing things.
Listen to your, listen to you talking about Plato tonight.
That was fantastic.
Time me as God, I'm like, I wanted to find the exit.
Like, oh, I hope he didn't call on me, right?
You know what I mean?
So nice job, nice job, gorgeous job.
And kudos to you for that.
And that's all that matters.
At this Lady Babylon dojo, that is all that matters.
That is executing the art.
And I think that's what really stings me
about guys like Dan is that they bring
an element of deception to the science.
And that, and I think you're a great warrior for that,
for that reason.
So congratulations.
Is there anything else you want to throw in there
after the-
You know, it's not, I think there's a,
there's what's evident in a lot of these academic circles,
is there's certain, it may be not dogmas,
but like there's certain atmospheres
where certain things are,
there's ideas that are pushed easier than others.
That makes sense.
Where there's some group of things going on, it seems like.
And it seems like there's some political layers there.
Yeah.
And I'm not talking about one side being correct,
politically one side not being correct.
I don't care if, I might agree with his politics,
but that should not determine how I look at the ancient past.
Yeah.
You shouldn't do that.
That's all, that's all.
It's sloppy, isn't it?
It's sloppy.
And you find that a lot, unfortunately through seminaries,
you find kind of sloppy work like that.
I would thank Dan for coming tonight.
I really appreciate the fact that he's been a guest
and this has been scrumptious.
I look forward to any responses we get.
I hope for the 586 people who have come,
I feel the burden and the weight,
the responsibility of giving you
something that's worth your time.
And I hope that tonight,
you appreciate and accept as a gift to you,
the vision of Jesus, the Christ,
who is the drug-using, child prostituting guy
from a time when you couldn't always get away
with that kind of thing.
You may get crucified before that kind of stuff.
And the drugs, thank you for following the drugs,
you're all in.
Why is that the Dark Ages term?
Yeah, what were you saying, by the way,
who figured it out?
So my boy's Petrarch, he's the one who coined the term
in like the 1300s.
And then Machiavelli used it, Brumie used it,
Flavio used it.
It was big in the early Renaissance,
right around the time Constantinople fell,
people were like, this is some dark shit going on
in the last 850, in the last 800 or something a year,
whatever, 500 years.
And we know what they were doing.
They were looking back at the classical antiquities,
classical sources of antiquity.
They're looking back at Ovid and Virgil and Homer
and Aristotle and Hypatia, who's the real martyr,
not the fake martyrs that they've made fake legends about
and Sappho and all these amazing texts that we got,
Euripides, all these amazing plays that we got,
all the mystery religions that people believed in.
That's what Machiavelli was saying.
He's saying, everyone's atheist now.
This is before Nietzsche, forget about Nietzsche.
Machiavelli was saying the same shit Nietzsche was saying.
He was saying, why is it everyone,
nobody even believes in this shit anymore.
It's all just like fake people believe in religion
back in the ancient Roman days.
People look forward to the next Roman festival
of Magna Mater.
People look forward to the games of Apollo.
People look forward to the Dionysian Bacchic revelries
and the Saturnalias.
Every month there was a new festival to look forward to.
Now you got Easter and Christmas.
Yay, no one gives a shit.
And so they're called the Dark Ages.
And I know, what's that scientist name?
Oh, shit.
He got in trouble.
He got in trouble for bringing that term up Dark Ages.
And all the academics were like, bad, bad.
That's a bad term.
You don't use that.
No, you're not allowed to use Dark Ages anymore.
And you've been around academics now.
And you've been interacting with them.
By the way, you also interacted with a great scholar
who works in Haifa, right?
And he worked with Feinkelstein from Tel Aviv.
And the dude who was on the Megida dig.
Oh, God, God, what gorgeousness.
And what was he?
Can you just give the audience a punch line of that?
Because you can't.
Oh, I got a clip, actually.
OK, oh, you have a clip.
Oh, play it, play it.
All right.
This is actually a good, this would actually be a good,
this is, all right, I'm going to stay tuned for my channel
coming out in the next day or two,
probably in the next two days, something like that.
I have the full video of this clip.
And you see it in the archeological records so clearly.
There's nothing before and every, and it starts after.
That I think it's, I mean, it's really hard to argue with that.
This is what I've been saying for,
as long as I started to discover some of this information.
And then, obviously, we get the Septuagint translation
coming a little bit later.
But it doesn't seem like the construction
or the creation of the Genesis, for example,
let's just take Genesis by itself.
Doesn't seem to have been constructed that much earlier,
maybe less than a century before at some point.
In decades.
Yeah, you know, I mean, this was in the 20s.
Do you hear what he said?
He talked about the virtual.
Do you hear what he said?
He said, decades, if not decades.
And by the way, you notice how I wasn't,
I wasn't setting them up.
I wasn't trying to put any words in his mouth.
I was so liberal with how I handled that.
I'll go, hey, when do you think the,
I go, when do you think the translation came about?
How century at least?
He said, maybe decades.
We're talking somewhere between 300 and 270
is when we get the Torah,
according to a leading professor at Haifa University.
Can I, can I just say, I told you so.
You've been saying it.
And yeah, no, he's, he's right on it.
And yeah, good.
You know what?
It's nice.
That's so inspiring to see a scholar out there
who's willing to say exactly how it is,
even though, hey, you know what that means, right?
I mean, that's, Neil, that's, that's an atomic bomb.
If he's got a book, that guy.
So stay tuned for my podcast with him,
two and a half hours long.
All we're talking about is dating.
Yeah, he calls it Yahwism.
Yahoo from the elephantine.
We talk about elephantine, Yahwism,
how they're all polytheistic.
There's no Moses, there's no Abraham,
there's no Noah, there's no Jacob,
there's no David anywhere for a thousand years
before 300 BC.
And then, and then he says,
hackatases have there as the first person
that ever mentioned Moses.
Everything we've both been saying for on this,
on your channel and my channel for the last year
and two years, he says it right.
His, his, his work is so separate than us.
How is it that he's coming to the exact same conclusions
as you and me?
Because we're reading the sources.
Science only works one way.
You don't come to two different conclusions
when you have, when you run the certain tests
and put the same evidence.
It's amazing that people didn't, you know,
don't realize that classical philology,
instead of ancient Greek and Latin,
that's a very scientific discipline.
You don't, you know what he said?
It's so, first thing he says in that clip,
it is so clear.
There's nothing before,
he met, he's talking about 300 BC.
He's talking about the year, when he said before,
he meant the library of Alexandria.
Because we were just talking about that
right before that clip.
He goes, it's so clear.
There's nothing before the library of Alexandria
and then all of a sudden after the library of Alexandria,
you get all these Bible texts everywhere
and all of a sudden synagogue stuff.
And by the way, the oldest synagogue
in the archeological record is like 175 BC.
I was there.
The oldest one?
Yeah, second century.
Greek, it's all Greek that's there.
That's all they've got left is the Greek
because they didn't have any Hebrew, right?
And people are always shocked.
By the way, speaking about Dan,
he tells people that the biblical story
becomes historical during,
at the time of David.
Which means King Solomon,
who had all these wives and concubines,
the richest man in the world,
who had all these lands and territories.
Where's the evidence of that?
What do you mean historical?
What?
That, I ran up.
His only book that he has out,
his only peer reviewed book,
Yahweh's Divine Images.
I read it.
In the first chapter, he's dating the Bible
to like 700 BC.
He is in that book.
Yeah, that's...
Guess who published that book?
SBL.
SBL.
Okay, got it.
Okay, now I understand.
Yeah, I hope they made some cash on there.
On their deception.
Yeah.
Yeah, okay, I was going to say something.
It just kind of fled my mind.
I'm kind of overwhelmed because it's,
you know, with the Megiddo dig,
and your professor from Haifa,
he knows...
He knows Finkelstein, right?
Yeah.
Yeah, anyway, with that dig,
they were saying at Megiddo...
Aren't you on that dig?
Yeah, I was.
And what they were saying from the season
that I was there at least,
what they were saying is that
one of the layers was Solomon's, right?
This is Solomon's way station,
and this is where they take tolls and tell you,
there's no...
That stuff's all made up.
It's all made up.
That's why when they dug down to the K-Lite floor,
I was like, yep.
That's part of our video.
That's another thing Gad was saying.
He goes, we used it for the second and first temple period.
What does that even mean?
It's all based on the Bible.
There's no first and second temple period.
By the way, Herod, what is that?
The third temple then?
Why don't we call it the temple that fell in 70?
That's the third temple.
And it's not even...
Poppy, the great Saxon temple in 63 BCE.
The temple's gone after that.
They had to rebuild it after that.
There's a whole bunch of temple periods,
but we only say first and second.
Why?
Because that's what the Bible says.
Yeah, it's like an infiltration,
because when you say this is us
and we are different,
just like Dan was doing tonight.
This is us, Christianity,
and we are different from everybody else around us.
Then you can treat your scholarship that way,
and your history can come out completely
just a bastardized form of reality.
And it's been in those periods
when people discover the source, right?
When you go back to the source.
And you know what I'm talking about,
and you've been there, right?
If you worship the muse, baby,
it's those sources that are everything.
Those sources are everything.
I'm going to throw it to you then,
and I'm going to say,
hey, give me your last thoughts on the evening.
It's been an interesting week.
We've had a lot of things going on.
Give me your last thoughts,
and we'll throw it to the...
Joey, if you can get any questions
that you want to bring them up.
But go ahead.
Ah, man, I think we need to...
There's one thing I do agree with Danon,
is the notion of serving...
religion serving this class of Protestants
and Catholics and Orthodox Christians
needs to go,
as if we're still in the Dark Ages.
I'll just say it like that,
because once we can bring back the idea
that religion has to do with the reflection of the self,
the inspiration of what we call the muse,
the Dionysian spirit, the frenzy,
the inspiration, the Bacchic mania, baby.
Give people fired up about something.
Artistic expression, as in the ancient Greeks
and the ancient Romans and even the ancient Indians
and all the way in the Hindus.
There's a lot of ancient Africans as well.
Bring back the ancient expression of the self as religion.
Bring back the images again.
Idolatry is not evil.
The image...
Bring an image of every single type of person that exists.
Hermaphroditus.
Everything needs to be on a fucking...
as an altar to be worshiped.
An image that represents the self.
Not just one face of a bearded guy on a cross.
No. We need to kill that.
That's what religion needs to be.
That's what I'll say.
What are you talking about?
Are you talking about cult?
What are you talking about?
Yeah, bring back local cults again.
Mystery religions. Do it.
People will actually have something to believe in again.
Instead of dogma.
Right?
Remember that term that they had at the Oracle of Delphi?
What was that phrase that was on the wall
at the Oracle of Delphi?
No, it's the South Town, right?
Or was that...
No, that was on the polo, the temple polo.
No, that's not...
Yeah, it's the Oracle of Delphi, right?
Yeah, love it.
Bring back the image of the virgin warrior.
Those are the things that made people want to live.
Right?
Yeah, the reality.
The reality. There's a zeal.
What do you say though, Neil?
Hang on.
What do you say?
Because people are saying in the comments and stuff,
and I hope people in the chat, we can talk about this too.
But people are saying there's...
Dean and possession and things are...
People are talking about pray for Dan,
and that group is assembling.
What do you think about that?
Wait, what?
Say pray for Dan.
Yeah, pray for Dan.
Do you have anything in the comments to say pray for Dan?
No, I wasn't looking at the comments, but...
There's...
Yeah, no, I'm sorry.
No, pray for Danny.
Pray for Danny, right?
Pray for Danny Jones, because he's interacting
with demonic forces of the devil.
Oh my God, it's so...
Danny, my interview with Danny is coming out next week, so...
Oh...
By the way, for the 561 people who are watching,
who are new, or a lot of them are new,
because it jumped up about 300 since the last...
Since before the Danny interview,
which by the way, congrats on you because...
And for really doing good in that interview.
Anyways, Danny talked for the first...
We talked for three and a half hours.
The first whole hour was just about what you said.
It was me responding to your interview,
without even seeing it, just kind of feeling out
what Danny was telling me that you were talking about.
So it is kind of a part two, in a way.
It is kind of a part two to yours.
Good, good, good.
I mean, it sounds like it'll be a nice bridge.
That's gorgeous, and you know what that is?
Look what's going on, man.
That's collegial advancement in science, baby.
That's what you're doing.
You're talking about text, and you're talking about...
Look at text, and then translate.
Speaking of text, one more text before we go.
One more text before we go.
I got it on the bottom.
Remember, remember we were talking about
the idea of the whole...
The Mark 14 theory that you...
Or the Mark 14 reading, as you would call it,
actually has some evidence behind it.
The PGM is a temporary text with the Gospels,
and it tells you to...
To Helios wrap a naked...
and linen a scene done, right?
From head to toe.
Hands, ringing your noise.
And it says...
It says...
What is the words that Jesus says on the cross?
So, there is an argument...
It's a solid, slam-good argument, I think, to be made.
That these could be some sort of...
This could be some sort of magical text going on.
I'm just saying.
I just opened up a whole new can of words right there.
No, no, no. You know, Neil,
I've got a whole book of Christian...
Early Christian magic somewhere.
And those texts.
I think a lot of them are Coptic.
But, yeah, no, seeing the use of the magic,
there are a lot of naked boys that you're going to find
running around in...
There's a lot of weird shit like that in the PGM.
Magical text.
I found 20 like that.
There's like 20 of them like that.
I'm so glad that you brought me those naked boys tonight.
I appreciate it.
Anyone know where I can see a copy
of the performance of Matthias?
They got him excommunicated.
Now, technically, who is that, Milo?
Milo, let me tell you this.
I wasn't excommunicated because in order to be excommunicated,
you got to be communicated.
And I was not communicated.
So, they couldn't excommunicate me.
They could just fire me.
And that's what happened.
By the way, that performance of Matthias...
Oh, it's absolutely delicious to have it.
I just want to...
I'm glad you brought it up because I just want to say this.
Imagine, just imagine this from it,
a chorus of Catholic college girls
dressed in leather with dildos pointed at priests
who had been accused of being pedophiles.
Oh, my God.
That was the sexiest...
The Monsignor told me.
No, no, no.
I want to tell people what the effect of that was,
historically, because I want this done.
Somebody writes this down.
The effect of those performances, right?
So, we're giving these performances during the school year, right?
And for the theater department.
And it's a big project.
And it's just gloriously done.
Very professionally handled, outstanding work, right?
All around.
Costumes are...
Oh, God, they're gorgeous.
And so, in the midst of all of this,
in the midst of all of this, there's a chemistry
that's going on between the stage
and the audience that's perceiving the play.
And that chemistry could be felt in the seminary.
The seminary servers skyrocketed with porn.
With porn, the furies, those Catholic girls
brought out the fury.
And all the servers, porn,
warnings, boo, hey, hey, right?
Because they monitor all that stuff, right?
When was this?
This was when I was at St. Mary's.
And one of my students was the Monsignor,
who was in charge...
This is a college, though, right?
Yeah, St. Mary's University, right?
In Minnesota.
And the person that was one of my students
was also the Monsignor, who was involved in...
You know, overseeing when bad things happened,
you know, and making them right.
Or at least, you know, making sure
that the train got going somewhere to Wrightville, right?
He was a former Navy guy.
You know, I absolutely loved him.
I absolutely loved him to death.
Great guy.
And, you know what, he would have been...
If he didn't become a vicar general,
he would have ultimately, in another life,
he would have been in the museum.
And he would be standing next to the poets, Neil.
You know what I mean?
So, anywho, that was totally unrelated.
But I want people to enjoy all the demon possession stuff.
All of these...
These emails are fantastic.
The people, look, I'm a real priest,
and this guy's really possessed.
Or look, I'm a shaman.
I like that Iowa Scarow wrote,
and he's like, this guy is totally possessed, right?
So, yeah, we're gonna get the Greek...
Plato said being possessed is the highest form
of a state you can be in.
That Bacchic mania, baby.
Yeah, exactly.
Exactly.
It's gonna be...
You know, the other day, Neil...
That's the Holy Spirit.
When you see...
By the way, this just blows my mind.
And you know who wrote a lot about this?
It was Carl Kereny, an early religion scholar
from the 1900s to 1940s,
I think somewhere in between there.
Early to middle...
First half of the 20th century, let's just say that.
And he was friends with Carl Jung.
They co-wrote books together.
Actually, I have it right here.
This book right here is co-written by Carl Jung
and Carl Kereny.
Essays on a Science of Mythology.
And they talk about, look,
when you see these snake-handling Christians
speaking in tongues,
and going shaking because they have the Holy Spirit,
that's Bacchic mania.
They're adopting that from the Greeks.
This is an ancient idea from the mystery religions
that's being passed down all the way until today.
Totally, totally, totally.
And you know, the Christian community
is going to have to face this more and more
as the knowledge spreads.
They're going to see their own origins.
And they're not going to like what they see
in the naked boy.
The naked boy is just that cherry on the top
of the cupcake of doom.
So let me finish with that
and tell people, Chewie wanted me to let you know
that we've got things.
They're going to start getting rolling
with Amenu, a place where people can come
and can learn and can be enlisting
in basically taking a lot of ancient Greek dope
and growing your brain in a warrior's way.
And let me tell you something.
I have so many students,
so many students who entered into the same initiation I did.
The ancient Greek gets into your brain
and it starts changing it.
And it gives you vision.
It gives you vision in a way that you can't do
with the Anglo-Saxon.
I don't know, not all of us are created equal
in the world of language.
Life's rough.
It's survival of the fittest.
And Greek made it to the top
and then squashed everybody else around
or just, oh, God, Athena, you're so sexy.
By the way, I remember Carl Sagan.
Rest in peace, Carl Sagan.
He's the one who stuck his neck out,
great scientists of our time.
He stuck his neck out and said
that Dark Ages was a real legitimate term
and I'm standing by it and he got in trouble for that.
I even heard a scholar say he did damage for saying that.
On his show, on his show,
look it up, it's on YouTube, the episode one of Cosmos.
From a show from the 1990s or 1980s or something.
Old show, it's called Cosmos
and he opens up the show brilliantly
talking about Eratosthenes and Plato
and Aristotle and Archimedes
and all these amazing writers
from mathematicians and scientists
figuring out the movements of the stars
and all this shit and the death of Hypatia
and the Alexandrian Library
and then he uses the term Dark Ages that followed it
and they were like, he did damage for saying that.
That was mean.
You shouldn't have said that.
That's not a legitimate term to use anymore.
Nope, I agree with Carl Sagan.
I got Carl Sagan's back and I'm going to stick with it.
Look at what have you become.
You have become some kind of renaissance.
I'm expecting you to write out soon with like armor or something.
I'm going to be like, oh god.
Seriously, seriously, I am so impressed
and I'm a little bit set back.
Let's end on this.
I'm a little bit humbled tonight
because Neil, I got to confess to you.
I don't do some of those sources like you do.
Like Machiavelli, I was like, oh shit.
You know, hey.
You know what?
You know what this is?
This course is on Livy.
It's amazing.
Okay.
You know what?
Everyone talk about the prince?
Boring.
This course is on Livy.
That's an amazing text.
I will do.
I will do it and look people what's happening.
Look what's happening.
This is a dojo.
This is a place.
This is a renaissance dojo.
And that's what I really, really wanted
with Lady Babylon.
Everybody who's new, thank you for coming.
You're all sexy.
Join the Satanic congregation.
Hail Satan.
Hail Satan.
Teenage Mutant Ninja Turb Shell.
Magic even stronger than the drugs to sell.
Are the songs.
The magic fleece.
Darkness through dreams.
An animal skin with the song of the queen.
Written there with magic ink.
Guarded by a dragon in the grave.
Of Mars on the east side of the black sea.
Dragon venom from the guard with horns.
I am being Ionic.
Watch the image.
Jude's letters in Greek.
Cornucopia.
Ouroboros.
Cleo, Medea and Bacchus.
The dragon venom will knock him back.
Phase interferometry.
Tracer's floating.
Crazy eyes.
Drinking purple mead and whiskey.
With Lady Medea.
Straight out of Babylon.
Venus with a penis.
Gold horns of Alexander.
Hitch you with the man the broad set on the DMT.
Way up the element on peas.
Slang what words will it mean?
Dragon venom of darkest dreams.
