I'm always late.
Why did you ever change your name?
Because you were like a wave on the ocean
Wild and free you came
And you were like a star coming out of mountains
Never to be tamed all the way
Why did you ever change your name all the way?
Why did you ever change your name?
Welcome back to our second to last Wednesday night Bible studies on
Lady Babylon you have come tonight to something sweet
I have things for you. I have things for you. You're going to love this tonight
We get to bring Jesus
We're gonna bring him right here. We're gonna put him right in this seat
And we're gonna interrogate him
We're gonna for your sake the jury
So that you have the capacity to decide his fate
Afterwards we may have Gnostic informant appear with some tags
He's been working diligently good for him with tags
He's becoming so much more enthralled with the sources
Yes, yes, tonight on Lady Babylon
Now what finer purification could we perform tonight?
Then to bring in somebody who was there
Let's start off this session with a purification through celsus
Somebody who was there somebody who saw what was going on
Let's take a look tonight
Let's take a look tonight
This is the opening of the Bible studies
You're going to love this tonight
Let's take a look tonight
Let's take a look tonight
Let's take a look tonight
Let's take a look tonight
Let's take a look tonight
same battle. This is fantastic and everyone here you've come here because you know and you're drawn
by those texts. You know you are. Let's get the real stuff. Let's get the real juice tonight. I
want to bring him in. Where is Jesus? Let's just bring him in right away. Ladies and gentlemen of the
jury. May I introduce to you Jesus Christ. It's your turn. It's your turn.
Come to me. Come to me. Come to me. You know you said you had to. You had to. I summon you
from the kingdom of Satan. I summon you here to testify today.
Your pain will be our pleasure.
Let's bring him up. It gets me charged. I love it. Wherever two or three are gathered in my name,
I will be there in your midst right here, right now, right out of his mouth. Let's get the answers.
Go for it, Chewie. Blast off. This is John 145 and Philip found Nathaniel and he said to him,
the one who Moses wrote about, you know, and the law and the prophets, we found him. And guess what?
His name is Jesus. Yeah, son of Joseph from Nazareth. Nazareth. Hit us with the second one.
State your name please. Jesus of Nazareth. Nice to meet you. Nice to meet you. Tell me
a little bit about your childhood. Did you stay in Nazareth or did you end up going off somewhere
else? I was born in Bethlehem, right, in the days of Herod the king. And look, look, look, look,
these magi that came from the east, right, came to Jerusalem. Okay, these magi. Who are these
magi? Let's keep going. Let's keep going. They were dudes asking, where's the one who's born,
the bossy laus, the bossy laus. Yeah, the bossy laus of the Jews. The king of the Jews. Fantastic.
That's who you are. That's what you were born. Fantastic. Yeah. They saw his star. What's that,
Jesus? His star. His star in the east. They came. They bowed down. They bowed down to you, Jesus.
Yeah, they bowed down. They bowed down to a baby. These guys are weird. They're all on drugs, right?
These magoi tons of drugs. Are you ready? By the way, tonight, take it down for a minute, shall we?
Tonight, you want to see the drugs and you want to see them as he's using them with his kids.
I'm taking you tonight to show you what happens when Jesus cr-
back. I'm alive. That scared me. Some kind of interference. We're here to show you tonight.
We're here to show you tonight. That moment when Jesus Christ becomes completely stoned.
Yeah, with his boys. Let's go and look at it. Jesus, I'm going to ask you a few questions.
Let me ask you a few questions. I've got to enjoy it, right? Who wouldn't enjoy it? Who gets a chance
to do this? Thank you so much, ladies and gentlemen of the jury. Who gets a chance to do this? Go ahead,
Chewie, bring it up. Coming into the house, what do these magi do? They saw the little kid
with his mother Mary, right? Falling down, they worshiped him and they opened up their treasure.
They opened up their treasure. Yeah, they opened up. You know, carrying them around,
you got a little box. It's full. It's full of what? Jesus, what they give you is dorra,
is gifts they gave me gold, frankincense and myrrh. Only these aren't the gold and the frankincense
and the myrrh you know about. This is the frankincense that is a part of a compound formula. This is
the smurna. You don't know. You know, it was on his face when they arrested him. You know,
he said it was blood. No, don't get ahead of yourself. Smurna on your face. What did Jesus
have on his face when he got arrested in a public park with a naked kid? Let's go. Keep going. You
guys are going to love it. I bring you the, I bring you the top, top shelf tonight. Look at this.
So they went away and behold, an angel of the Lord appeared in the dream to Joseph. Wait a minute,
we got angels appearing and he, what did he say? He said, take that Pideon, take that kid,
right? Take that little guy and his mother and get out of here. Go to Egypt and stay there until I
tell you otherwise, right? Because Herod, take it down. Herod wants to kill him. Herod wants to kill
him. Joseph had a dream. He had a vision. He had a vision. Okay. Are we going to jump into the
prophets? Yeah, we're going to jump into the prophets only. We're going to see it from the
historical actuality this time instead of from the fairy tale when the evangelicals tell you
Bible times, as soon as they say those two words run, right? It's an unreality. We're going to look
at the text and exactly what the text, they were not making up a thing. It's all coming from the
text. You're going to be surprised when you see the drugs. Let's go. Love it. We know we love it.
Yeah. And he said, you know, get him and go off. Herod's trying to kill you. Go to the next one.
Next one, she went, yeah, but when Herod died, look, look, look this. Angulos came. He appeared.
Onar in a dream. Onar in a dream. Wow, we were in Egypt. Daddy had a dream. So, okay, I see where
you're going. I hear you and the jury hears you and they hear your prophetic personality, Jesus.
Love it. Love it. But let's go and ask a couple of questions. So,
dad brings you back. Now, ask me the riddle me this, Jesus. Were you educated? Did you do
something with all that gold? Did anybody notice you walking around with all that gold? My goodness.
Gold and next thing you know, you'll be buying maid servants. You'll be buying virgins.
Yes. Perhaps we'll find some of those virgins tonight that you could have bought with your gold.
Yeah, maybe we will. How about this, Jesus? I love your clothes. Your threads, man.
Let's not take them apart, right? Let's see who gets this. Let's let the fates determine. I want
those threads. I want those threads morning star. You've got the grove. Let's go. Next text.
Let's follow Jesus, right? You see? You see what happens? Clown. Blow it up, please, chewy.
And oh, look at this, guys. In Greek, you're going to love the little, look at the genitive absolute
that starts this little thing out. Yeah, with the Sabbath coming on. What happened? What happened?
He began to teach in the synagogue. Wait a minute. These synagogues that started to get
billed a couple hundred years ago, right? They're new. They're full of Greek. What are we going to
do? Jesus is going to go around and teach them. Is that what you're going to do? He's a teacher,
ladies and gentlemen. And many people hearing him, they were kind of struck saying, where did he get
these ideas? And this wisdom that he's got, you know, this wisdom that's been given to him.
And what else does he have? He has duna mace and every Bible on the planet in English will translate
this as miraculous miracles, miracles. But we know that's not what it is. We know because we don't
follow the fairy tale. If you thought Jesus was snapping his fingers and stuff was happening, you
are an idiot. And I mean that from Greek. You are what people called
Peter and John. John or James? I forget. But Peter was there. We're looking just a second.
And they called him idiotes. They were uneducated. He didn't even use that word.
We'll look at it. We'll look at it. But that word idiot is definitely there. If you thought
that was happening, it's because you haven't lived. You haven't lived.
Yeah. Boom. Miraculum. No. So what is the duna mace? What are the duna mace? Plural. What are they?
What are they then? He's got good speak. He's got good. Here is where I'll show you the actuality.
Bring it up. Look at this. Duna mace. Generally, power. Power, force, might. The expression of
that power. The expression of some capacity is duna mace. Yeah. And by the way, one classicist
is worth 50 Bible scholars. Yeah, seriously. I would take a season classicist any day of the week
to the best Bible scholars from every top seminary in the country. Seriously. For this reason,
I'm just about to show you. Watch what the text will bring you. We'll show you. Okay.
Look. Duna mace. What else is it? Well, it's a medicine. You're kidding me. I'm in a medicine?
No. Look, look, people, at the end of the first line. Look, look, look, look. Polufarmakoi
duna mace, right? The polypharmic. And we know because you and I have already been there with
Nero. Remember when Nero showed up? We're looking at the recipe. What is a polufarmakoi?
We already know. We already know. We have ears to hear. You've been here the whole time.
Yes, you know what that polufarmakoi is. Oh, my goodness. Oh, my goodness. Jesus. I'm not
ignoring you. I know you want the center of attention. Just chill out there, Mr. Nazareth.
Okay. Let's go to the next text. He's got to do what I tell him to do. Okay.
And so, gee, I think we're one before that. One before that. Yeah. No, that's it. Up,
but keep it up. I want you to see. Now, look at B. Look at 4B. It's the action of those medicines,
right? Which is a title surprise, surprise of a work of Galen, right? Part of the title. Anyway,
on those powers, on those powers, a magical substance, right? Something that has a magical
potency. That is what Jesus is doing. Yeah. He is inducing the drugs. He is bringing you the power
of the medicine because he is the divine Son of God physician. The great physician. Not just
physician, but great, great physician. Aren't you? He nodded. Thanks, bro. Thanks. Let's get another
text there. I don't like this. I feel like I'm being too nice for so long. I've wanted to do this. I
just have a, here's the opportunity. I love everybody for coming. Even the evangelicals who
want to see me do my thing. Thank you for coming. It's a little bit twisted, but I appreciate it.
I do. This is fantastic. And look, so Jesus goes around teaching. He goes around teaching,
presenting himself as a teacher, and he gets these little kids to follow him. And
something happens. Somebody comes in. They're like, what? Who is this guy? He goes back to his
hometown, right? And what happens? The people there are like, isn't this that tecton? Isn't this
that tecton? The son of Mary, right? Brother of James and, and, isn't this that dude? Yeah. Aren't
his, aren't his sisters here too? Yeah. And what happened? What happened? They got scandalized.
They got scandalized. You know why? Because they knew who he was. They knew his tricks.
And you know what he couldn't do anymore? He couldn't use his drugs anymore.
So he went out to a village. Now why, and you have to ask yourself why? Remember,
the Magi are the ones who started this whole trip. Jesus, the Magi. I got to start asking
him questions. The Magi started, started everything out. Ball gag down. Yeah. The Magi started
everything out. Why do you think Jesus is going around? Stoned. We're going to look at him actually
getting stoned. Tonight, you are here to see Jesus Christ get stoned. You're going to love it.
I've been saving this one people. Oh, I'm pulling it out now because this is the stuff
that's delicious. Let's go to the next one. Look, and what is that tacked on, right? It's a master
of an art as in gymnastics, right? They talk about physicians this way, right? I just want
you to see that it doesn't have to be a builder. It doesn't have to be a carpenter, right? It's
really a technician, right? A master of a certain area, okay? And he's got his students with him.
It only makes sense that they're saying, hey, hey, right? You know, didosculos, right? Teacher,
and here he is, children everywhere. Let's go to the next one. Boom. Oh, love it. Mark
6-4, and he said, and Jesus said, and you know, you know, because he's answering. Okay, let's take
a step back. What's happened? He conked out. He conked out in his own place of where his family
were. He couldn't do anything. He couldn't do anything. Nobody bought it. Yeah, even his
brothers and his sisters, and that's especially his brothers and his sisters, right? Because why?
Because they knew him. They knew what he'd been doing the whole time down in Egypt. What do you
think he did with all that gold? Yeah, right? I'm going to show you the frankincense and the myrrh.
I'm going to show you those, but I'm going to show you Jesus on frankincense and myrrh. You want to
see Jesus on what they use on the island of Cyprus to worship the great, great queen Aphrodite?
You want to see it? You bunch of Satanists. I love this. This is fantastic. Let's go.
Yeah, what is this? No, so Jesus says, hey, you know, prophet doesn't get any honor, right? He's
not without it. Prophet's not without, technically, he's not without honor, except, right? He may accept
in his own backyard, right? In his own patri, right? His own stomping grounds where all his
relatives are, right? In his own house. Prophets don't get honor, right? Isn't that amazing?
Mind control. Brilliant mind control, Jesus. Love it. What's the question on the next slide?
Yeah, which one is next? This one? Yeah, go ahead and put it up. Okay. Can you do miracles?
Can you do miracles, Jesus? Right? Can you do miracles?
Wait a minute. You don't understand the miracles? Oh, okay. I'm talking dunamis.
You know what I'm talking about. Can you use those powers? Can you use those powers?
You couldn't, could you? Did your steam run out? You lost it, didn't you? And you couldn't around
your own people. And let me tell you this, that moment of weakness is the most delicious thing
I've ever seen in my life, because it's an inability, Jesus. It's an inability. Look, people,
you cannot get anything more explicit. He didn't have the potency to pull it off.
He couldn't do it anymore. Yeah, yeah, they took away his drugs. Shame on them. And you say,
wait a minute, Jesus is a prophet. Jesus is a prophet. How are their drugs? Keep going.
Keep going. Did we skip? Chewie, did we skip? Are you sure? Okay. Okay, we'll get there. He wasn't
able to do anything. You know, except this and what, what was he? Look at the end of this.
Look at the Aime, oligos, except for what? For giving, putting his hands on some people
who are arostos. And arostos is not always ill. Sometimes translated as ill, but it can also be
like in a mental, mentally ill state. So he's laying his hands on him. And he's a person,
he is applying the therapy baby to these people. He still do that, right? He can still do that
to a few of these. But his duna mace, he doesn't have it in his own backyard. He doesn't have it
in his own backyard. Fantastic. Took away his drugs. Let's keep going. Let's keep going. Blow
it up. And Jesus was just, all this says is, and Thalmas and he was, Jesus was just, he was like,
what? I can't believe these people didn't buy it. They got no faith. They're faithless.
Right? And so what does he do? He goes around the villages and the areas around where he lives
so that, you know, he can get out and meet some fresh face and maybe his, you know,
maybe his medicines work. Yeah, let's go. Fantastic. Bring it down. Oh, love it. And so what did he
do? He calls together the 12. These are his 12 children and AKA apostles. And he begins to send
them out two at a time, two and two, right? And what does he do? Right? He, he gives them the,
he gives them what it takes to cast out, right? These bad spirits to perform. Look at the last word,
a cathartone. Look at that. The a cathartic. This is purification. What is Jesus? Jesus,
what are you teaching your disciples to purify, to purify? And okay, so this is no necromancy,
right? No necromancy. Yes, okay, fine. And these cathartic rites, these are pretty much,
oh, there's been a thousand years of them up until this point. You're not the first, are you, Jesus?
No, no, no, he's not the first. As a matter of fact, he's, he's on the scene quite late, quite late.
Yeah, this is a mad guy. Next one. Yeah. And what happens? He, the, the, he's going to teach his
people, right? Right? They're going to cast out, they cast out a lot of demons, a lot of demons,
they cast them out because these are cathartic rites, right? And what do they do? They went around
touching people with oil, baby. This touch people, oily, oily, oily, oily. Get used to oil and given
therapy to the people who didn't feel so good, right? To the people who work quite, quite right.
They made a right oil them up in the process. These are the oil boys. These are the oil boys.
Thank you about that for a minute. Just step out historically as we sit here and look at Jesus.
He is sending teenagers out to oil people and to cast out their demons.
Okay. Okay. I just, is that clear? Did everybody on the jury hear that?
We good? Okay. Let's go to the next, go to the next one, please. Boom.
Mark 615. Some people say Jesus that you're Elias, right? And other people say that you're
one of the prophets. Yeah. Yeah. This is just the way it is. This is just the way it is.
What is a prophet? And the next question should be, I want to pull up my question list, Chewie.
What is a prophet? What is a prophet, Jesus? Give us a definition here. Oh, people, people,
look at this. Somebody ordered up Alice, Alice in Wonderland, one who speaks for a God and
interprets his will to man as in the prophet of Zeus. That's what that says in Greek, Zeus,
right? Zeus. And an interpreter and expounder of the will of Zeus. For example, Tiresias.
Oh, you didn't know a prophet and everybody starts panicking. Are you panicking now because
a little bit of Hebrew propaganda from antiquity, from pukes like Josephus and Philo has permeated
your brain over the centuries? You got to clean that out. Have you seen anything yet from the
New Testament? No. You're looking at a Greek concept. Guess what? Prophet is a Greek word.
It's a Greek word. The concept that the Alexandrians who wrote the Septuagint in the third century,
the concept of the prophet having a vision. Guess what? Guess where that comes from?
This tradition, the Greek tradition is a thousand years before this already established.
It's a Bronze Age thing. Prophets, Bronze Age. Yeah, they're already there in the earliest stuff
in Homer. Homer. Can you believe Homer? Oh, Calcas.
Love it. What's a prophet? Let's keep looking at the definition of prophet because
I want to introduce the Satanic congregation to what a prophet is for the first time.
Look at that second line right after Tiresias. It says, bahu profetes, right? The prophet of
Bacchus, prophet of Bacchus, perhaps of Orpheus. Yeah, and Dionysus, you know, same, same. No
differences there, right? And what else? Delphi and Apollo. You have prophets. You didn't know the
Pythias were prophetesses. Yeah. Did you know that by the time Jesus is walking around calling
himself a prophet because that's what he does? Jesus, when you say to a crowd of people why you
can't do your mojo, well, it's because a prophet has no honor when he's at home. Okay. All right.
So what else is a prophet, Jesus? No, we need that back. What else is a prophet, Jesus? Look at
number two. It's a title of official keepers of oracles. Okay. If you guys thought I was making
this up, don't you know that Jesus is part of the Iraqi tradition? He may be a pirate,
but he's part of the Iraqi tradition. The Christ has to be. Right? Why do you think he's walking
around saying he's a prophet? I'm a prophet, I'm a prophet. Let me prophesy. Yep. Look at number
three, an interpreter. I like that. Of what? What do you interpret the mantis? Look at that Greek
word, mantis. Right? Mantis. What is the mantic? That's Apollo, baby. That's that priestess at Delphi.
That's what she gets is that mania. Are those from the same root? I think they are. Yeah,
mania, mantis. Who is a mantis? I know some praying mantises.
Yeah, Jesus is going to turn into a praying mantis. Did you like this? I brought you here
tonight to turn you into a praying mantis in front of my audience. Yeah, you're welcome,
son of God. I love it. Let's go to the next one. Number five, an interpreter at Declare.
Number, Roman numeral number two. Harold, sort of Harold. Now look, look at Roman numeral number three.
It stinks of poop. Intellectual religious poop. Look what happened. They don't know how to fit
your own, your Christian tradition into the, into the definition. So what did one of the
editors that Liddell had for this? What did he do? What did he do? Well, look, we got a,
it's got to have its own definition for the Bible. When it's the Bible, it gets its own definition.
You know that doesn't stand up to science because there's things that are being written
that are contemporary to the Bible, right? And the stuff that applies to them applies to the
Bible. So let's blow this up, Chewie. Let me finish off. Watch what happens. Go beyond that creation,
a revealer of God's will, a prophet, inspired preacher, an organ, an organ, an organ,
an organ of special revelations. Do you hear the Christianity in the definition? So far,
you have gotten the Greek in everything that's come before it with glorious sources. Look at that.
Look at the sources in here. Eat that up. Eat that up. Who else didn't, did we skip over?
Appamentities. Look at number four people. Appamentities was a prophet. Do you know who
Appamentities was? If Gnostic Informant comes, I'll ask him to say something about Appamentities.
But Appamentities is, because he's got some, he's got gossip on Appamentities and Paul. Yeah, Paul.
So I'll let him tell it. I'll let him tell it if he comes. But look, Appamentities is there. And
who's that freak? He's the freak who gave Solon what Solon needed to start the wheels of what
eventually became democracy. Yeah, from this guy, Appamentities, who's a prophet, who is a
profetice, a prophet people, Appamentities. And do you know what this prophet, this weird prophet,
do you know what he looked like? He had tattoos all over his skin. They took his skin when he was
done with it, and they turned it in to a scroll. Isn't that nice? Isn't that nice? That's respect.
He was able to pass down to you. You're sitting here today. If you're sitting in the U.S. of A,
yeah? If you're sitting in a democratic government, if you're sitting there, if you're one of those
workers, you're only there because of Appamentities. A known drug-using prophet who had visions. And,
you know, you got to give it to him for all the science. You know what I mean? Just smart. Smart.
Yeah. Yeah, it's with the drugs. It's the drugs, right? None of this physics, right? You can't get
there without the drugs. What do you think the dunamis are? What do you think the powers are
that Jesus is doing? It didn't say Miraculum. It said Dunamis. Fantastic. Let's keep going. We
still haven't seen Jesus' stone. I want to see it. It's kind of a climax. Look at the last, go back,
and look at the definition. Look at the very bottom here, people. Look at it. I just want you to
note it. It also means an herbalist. And when they say herbalist, they mean somebody who grows
and prepares drugs. Drugs, right? This is where you get your drugs from in the ancient world,
right? And let's check out the medical. None of the watch. Here's how you need a classist
over a Bible scholar any day of the week. Are you ready? Go to the next one and blow it up for me.
Fantastic. Put your glasses on, stupid. Okay. Look, ton profeton. Who is this? This is Galen,
baby. You just sit back and love it. Oh, yeah. Look at this. I can hear it. Oh, here it is. Here
it is. Look at this. Oh, oh, look at this. Look at the publication date on that, people. I got it.
1829. 1829. Are you ready? Are you ready for this? Here it is. Ton profeton, de auton,
die nechventon, alelois. Et mezon, et min apuria, genetai dois me profetais. Look, there it is.
There it is on that second line down, kind of in the middle, profetais, profetais. Wait,
what is Galen doing talking? I thought this was second century. What is he doing talking about?
He's a died and the wolf physician, Hippocratic loving guy. He is way into the anatomy. He's
into going into Rome and giving exhibitions. There's a famous one that he gave, if you don't
mind me telling you. Let's shut up, Jesus. There's something. There's something wonderful that
Galen did. He went into Rome and he was like, I'm going to show the peeps at the exhibition
where all the smarty smarts get together and look at things like anatomy. He's like,
watch this, and he takes in and he ligates the recurrent pharyngeal nerve and gets a pig
to stop squealing and then releases the ligation and the pig starts screaming again. He says,
he didn't say that because he wasn't French. But Eureka, and there it was. There it was. Now you
know the origin of the voice. We know that somehow it's connected from here and it's acting here.
Fantastic. Yeah, I bet you couldn't prove something like that. Don't give me that.
He should have had his own cult. So what is he saying here? Blow it up. What is he saying here?
He says, look, the prophets, they aren't in agreement concerning the drug that he's talking
about in this section. And he says, look, the confusion is even greater with those of us who
are not prophets, right? So this is one of the drugs that he's talking about that's being used
by the prophets. And you say to me, oh, do you mean the prophets were using drugs?
Yeah. Yeah. Prophets use drugs. This is a medical text. Prophets use drugs. Fantastic. Next one.
What about diascortes? Let's get another physician in here. Let's get another physician. What is,
oh, asaron. Asaron. What is asaron? Asaron. Well, some people call asaron, I need to see it.
Some people call asaron nardos. It's an agria. It's a wild form of the nard. It's a wild form of
nard. Thanks. You mean the stuff that Jesus is carrying around is this drug? Yeah. And, okay,
it's a prophet's drug, right? Let's see what, let's see what, oh, look at the next word,
profeta, the prophets, the prophets, prophets. What do the prophets call it? Haim arreos,
the blood of Aries. Oh my God. Have you had the blood of Aries? Have you had the blood of Aries?
This is my blood. This is my blood. These priesthoods, these priesthoods, blood and flesh, blood and
flesh, Hail Satan, blood and flesh. Let's keep going. It's baked in. It's baked. No, I need to go back
to the one that it was. Boom. Yep. Okay. And now you're right. Let's keep going.
No, actually, let's go back. I see why. Sorry, Chewie. Stop turning this ship around. So,
the prophets, the prophets call it the blood of Aries. Ostanis, who if you know who Ostanis is,
who is Ostanis? Who, pray tell Jesus Christ is Ostanis?
He's a what? He's a what? A magus. He's a magus. He's a famous magus. And what does he call it?
He calls it Thesson. Thesson. And what do the Aeguptioi call it? The Egyptians, they call it
Ker Eera. And what are the Romeoi? What do the Romans call it? Per Presum. Per Presum.
And when some people call it Bakar. Yeah. And what do the Thuskui call it? What do they call it?
They call it Sukinum. Sukinum. Really? Okay. All right. Some people call it Nard, right?
What do those Gauls call it? What are those Gaulic people call it? Right? We know they're in
Turkey, right? We know these are the ones in Turkey. What do they call it? Bakar. That makes
sense. Bakar. And it's a great smelling plant, by the way. But let's go to the next one. What does
he say? What happens to this plant? Oh, he's, no. Look at the bottom. Second line. Second line
from the bottom says Thebiodectois. Start from the beginning of that line. Agedekayemina.
It causes the menstruation to flow, right? People did not take it down for a minute.
I forgot to tell the audience. I forgot to tell them. I should have told you a long time ago.
There are ways of drawing down menstruation. There are ways of working in concert with your
cycle using plants and animals, right? Substances mixed together that for you can cause you a catharsis,
can cause you a cleansing or purging. Now, you can sit there and you can let your body do it
itself or you can put your body back in touch with Gaia and let Gaia make you the most healthy.
That's what this doctor is talking about. This is one of the drugs that causes us to menstruate.
Wow. Talk about control. Talk about control, controlling the flow. When I started reading it,
I was like, oh, on the drug side, I was like, whoa, whoa. Because if you think about it, that's also
a form of contraception, a form of contraception. Where is Mike Johnson when you need him?
Let's go. Next one. It's good for, it works not only to bring down menstruation, but it also is
useful when you drink it, he says, when you give it with wine. It's useful for those who are involved
with the Thadia. Those who are either struck or who are intentionally involved, take it down,
involved with drinking or administering or pushing or snorting. How many ways did we miss
anal suppository, right? These do pestering. If anybody knows what pestery is, look it up.
Look it up. It's too delicate for my ears tonight. Yeah, pestery. Let's go to the last one.
What else about this plant that the Magi are using? What else about it? Well, he tells you what it does
and what, you know, you can take it with mellocrat too, which is like honey, honey water.
But I want you to notice on line nine, the third line from the bottom in the middle,
it says, magnetai decai murois. Yeah, it's going to be mixed with that muroin. It's going to be
mixed with it. So those sex drugs that the people on the island of Cyprus are using and
celebration of their mystery, those are here. And they're used with the very same drugs that
Jesus Christ was given. And where do these things come from? They come from Pontus,
they come from Phrygia, they're Illyrian, they come from Italy too. All right, so they're very
well aware. Mediterranean society, take it down, is very well aware of exactly what these plants
can do, right? And the knowledge is incredible. We have lost this knowledge in the last thousand
years of Christianity. We have lost this knowledge. Soon as Julian gave up the ghost,
right? Soon as he finished his quest, everything went to the Christians. And just like he said,
as soon as they start teaching, they will warp. I saw somebody right in. I didn't get this comment,
but I saw somebody right in last week, or maybe it was the week before, and say something about
knownness and say, this is a text that is outside the Bible, the sacred nature of the Bible. It's
not that inspired. We're just not going to accept it. We're going to cut the authority. You know
how the Christians set their canon by cutting out the things that scared them, right? And the
things they didn't want to teach, they cut all those things out. As a classicist, you're trained.
You can't take a body of literature and treat it any different from any other body of literature.
They are still human texts. And we're not there to establish a doctrine. I'm sorry, ladies of
frustration, but we are not there to establish a doctrine. We are there as scientists with words.
We are philologists. Yeah. And that's why you always come up with a fairy tale.
And you give it to the people. And those people suck it up. And I know you do because you bring
it on to this channel. You bring your narrative on to this channel. Remember what Celsus said?
They're idiots. They're illiterate. If you consider yourself an intelligent,
well educated, literate. When I say literate, what do I mean by literate? I mean, you know letters
and you read. I don't mean you recognize the stop sign. I mean literate.
And the early Christians weren't. And Celsus was pointing it out. He was pointing it out to them,
right? Notice what the Christians do. They pick on those who don't have access.
Yeah. Yeah. An educated Christian.
Yeah. Doesn't exist in the world of the second century. Yeah. Yeah. Isn't that interesting?
Isn't that interesting? Let's go on to the next source. This is bubbling hot. And we still want
to see Jesus getting high. Yep. Some people say he's a prophet, et cetera, et cetera. Keep going.
Who are these idiots? Look at the second line, people. Look at the second line. The second to
last word. Idiotai. So Peter and John. Peter and John are going around. And the people who are
watching them do their thing, they can't believe their parecian, right? They're struck by their
free speech. They're struck by their boldness to speak. And okay. And unfortunately,
they grasp, they hold on to, they finally comprehend, they realize. They realize what?
Yeah. That these people are idiotai. That Peter and John, that they're idiots, and they're
agramatoi. That's just the alpha privative, ah, plus the gram root from graph to write.
They literally, they cannot read. They're illiterate. It doesn't say uneducated. If you read a
translation, it says uneducated, it doesn't. It doesn't. It says they don't read. Was it on the
skills test? Jesus, when you obviously weren't using Roman state standards because your disciples
can't friggin read, thought they were your students. Let's go into it. Jesus, let's, let's, let's ask
about your students. Where's the next slide? What did people say about you? Oh, here it is. What was
our question here? Jesus is saying, anybody who receives a prophet, write a name of a prophet,
he gets the reward of a prophet, he gets the wages of a prophet, right? He receives justice in the
name of justice. This dude gets a reward too. Keep going. And whoever would, whoever would what?
Whoever would water one of my micron, one of my little kitties with a glass of cold water,
right? Whoever give them this, whoever give them that cup, the name of that student.
I'm saying to you, amen. I'm saying to you, he's not going to lose his reward.
He's not going to lose his reward. The one who rewards the prophet. You know what Jesus was
making? He was making profits. And you say, well, that kind of makes sense that he was doing. It
kind of, you can feel the magic pass along, even though you have these Renaissance paintings or
you have these old, older Christian Byzantine skinified things of all the 12 apostles and they
look like horrendous. Let's go. Sorry. But you know, when you've seen classical art, the stuff,
the stuff that is following is garbage, garbage. You can't say that. You can't say, I have nobody
to fear. So I can say exactly what I want to say. And it's garbage. Look, it's a Byzantine knife.
Oh my God. Are they all sick? Do they have the plague, chewy? I think they all have the plague
again. Look at them. They're all like super, super emaciated. Don't look at their bodies. Cover up.
Do you have the portrayal of breasts and Byzantine Christian art?
You be hard pressed. Start looking now. Okay, let's go. Mark 941. So whoever gives,
this is just a restatement, whoever gives that cup of water, right? My name, right? Why? He says,
because you are of Christ. That's all I wanted you to see here. You belong, he says, kiddies.
You belong to Christ. You belong to the one Christ did. That's how the cult works. That's
how the mystery works. Right? That's why it's always described as a wedding. Don't be surprised
if the imagery in your mystery cult has poles in a wedding. Don't be surprised. It's how it's
at the core of everything. Right? Who's Mars, Mary? Oh, who do you think? Right? Fantastic. Let's go
to the next one. Oh, yeah, whoever is going to, whoever is going to scandalize one of my
micron, one of my little boys. It's starting to get disgusting, Jesus. It really is. Whoever's
going to scandalize one of my little boys, one of the little boys that puts all his trust in me,
right? It's better. It's better that he ends up getting thrown into a river with something
hung around his neck from the mill. Right? Oh, right. Thanks. Okay, keep going.
Tell me, this micro, who is, who is this? You know, these disciples of Jesus,
they're wee lads. They're wee lads. Jesus, tell me, quick, Jesus, tell me.
What are they called? What are your disciples, your apostles called? What are the 12 Jesus?
What are the 12 called? Technia. Technia. What are Technia? Technion is a small child.
Yeah. It's a small child.
Children. Children, come with me. Come with me, children. Now, let's look at something funny.
We've brought you today. Go to that last one. Yeah. And here he's calling him Pideah again,
because he's a pervert. Right? Either that or he's weird. Jesus is totally weird
that he's calling middle-aged men, children all the time. It's really weird. Let me wash your feet,
kids. All right? Did you ever have somebody say that to you? Let me wash your feet.
Okay, let's go to the next one. Let's put, you know, it was the thing. It's the way they did it.
I want you to look at this article. This is just a randomly plucked article from the
bin of historic crappery. How old were Christ's disciples? Here they are. Otis and Frank are
going to figure it out for us. I don't know what they, I don't know who they are. I don't know
if they're husband or wife. But I do know this. I do know this. They wrote about the age of the
disciples, and they have a real problem. Take it down. They have a real problem, because it looks
like they're so young. And every time they're getting in a circumstance, it looks like it's
little kids reacting. And we know, as Frank and Otis know, we know the mathetes was a student.
It was a teenager, yeah, from primary to secondary. Somebody all the way from about nine,
all the way up to about 18, 19, about there. Yeah. So Otis knows it. Otis knows it. They're
trying to write an article to figure it out. Let's follow them. Look at how fun this is. This is
glorious. I love this kind of stuff. He took the children in his arms. He placed a child before
those who asked him to be greatest in the coming kingdom. He welcomed the praise of children in
the temple. Remember when they all ran to the temple and Jesus kicking shit over and he's like,
and the kids are like, and they're screaming. This is what he's talking about. He's always,
he's kind of, he's got a herd of children, a herd of children. Who's this man with it? Did
nobody thank for a minute? Hmm. Okay. He loved the rich young man. Yeah, he did love that rich
young man. I remember that. I don't want to be that rich young man in the after because who
wants to be known for that and egalitarian heaven? Certainly not me. He's that rich SOB.
You know what I mean? Do we not find another marked instance in his friendship for the family in
Bethany? If Lazarus were married, it's strange that his wife does not appear in the narrative.
And we get the impression that the sisters had no husbands. It would, however, be unusual for so
many in one household to remain single after reaching the usual age for marriage, which we have
seen to be 17 or 18 years in the case of men. That varies. That age varies according to region.
There's no blanket like this guy believes in Bible times. And in Bible times, there are absolutes,
right? You can throw a rock from one village to another where the customs are totally different.
So, okay, in general, are these the ages? No, no, they're not.
They hit the women's age, though. They're in the neighborhood because women are married off
as nymphs because they are in a biological state where they can produce children most efficiently.
Okay, they're farmers, people. Remember, these are farmers, herdsmen, right?
What? Right? Okay, so that's what he's getting into. It's really strange that Mary and Martha
and Lazarus, what are they doing? They seem like children. They're perfectly set in an environment.
They're children. Jesus has more kids that he's walking around with. Let's see what he finishes.
Let's finish up that section. If Lazarus were married, it's strange his wife does not appear in
the narrative. Should we jump down? Should we not think of the sisters as girls under 15 years of age?
A young girl would be more likely than an adult male such as to make such a complaint to a visitor
as Martha did about her sister. When we read that Jesus loved Mary, Martha, and Lazarus,
we see another example of the affection. The affectionate delight, ew. The affectionate delight
that he took in the young. Okay, Jesus took affectionate from the mouth of Christians themselves.
Jesus took delight in the youth. Let's bring that next one. Okay, look at this, people. The
important point, however, in connection with our present subject is that as Jesus was so attracted
toward the young, oh, I know that sounds bad. I know it sounds bad. They must have been strongly
attracted to him. Oh, God, that sounds worse. That sounds worse. Can these two people
make this any worse? And it would have been strange if among those most earnest to receive
his teaching, there were not some as young as those who in modern mission fields are likely
to be among the earliest to become his followers. Okay. Did you, did you smell that?
Wow. Wow. Can you believe that? Does that, okay, people, you can't blame them. They're Christians
and they're trying to answer the question of why is Jesus associated with a group of 12 boys?
And why is, why is he in the company always of other young people everywhere he goes into
tombs and he's got boys in tombs. He's even dead and his body's gone and all of a sudden there's a
kid. What's going on with this guy with all these children? And he's yelling at me. I'm not a child
trafficker. I'm not. I promise. Okay, let's go. Let's keep rolling. Is there one more? We will
not press the point. Oh, I just want to bring this. This is for the British audience. Just
we will not press the point that it was very boylike to forget to take bread when going out on
the lake. Right? You see what the apostles are doing? They're screwing up like children. He says,
this is an angry, angry British man, I think, and that young people would be more likely than older
ones to have an open coral overseas to the table. Remember the whole question about who's going to
sit where? Right? You think a bunch of 35 year old men would be doing that? You think a 35 year old
man would be happy if his mother came in to Jesus and said, let me ask you a favor. Can my
kid sit on your right hand? Seriously, people? And you thought these were, oh my God. Oh my God,
they're children people. Perhaps we should not make much of their fright, he says, when the
squall burst on their boat as they crossed the Sea of Galilee. Remember I told you we looked at that?
And the kids, they all get crazy. They're like, and he's like, maybe we shouldn't make much of that.
Why? Look, Dr. George Matheson, this guy has hoo-ha up his, up his, you know what? Dr. George
Matheson marveling at their abject trepidation. Big word says, listen to this quote, listen to this
quote. And if you wonder, if you wonder, King Chuck, why it's not worth your allegiance.
If you wonder, here it is. Here's history burping King Chuck right upon your bib.
Here it is, here it goes. Fancy a company of English sailors overtaken by a sudden gale
and giving vent to their feelings in a simultaneous shriek of terror. Imagine that. Fancy them.
Why? Why? Next one. Why is that fancy to me? Make your point.
He explained the mystery for these men are not English. Oh, okay. Look, it's a bunch of,
it's a bunch of people in Judea. These aren't Brits. There's no British sailor,
there's no British sailor that's going to say something like, he's going to see that squall
and he's going to be stiffer upper lip than anybody around. And he's going to say,
according to his British pride, yeah, yeah.
Yeah. Are you kidding me? Are you kidding doctor? You're a doctor and you're going to
seriously? Are we talking about texts? No, because these are Bible scholars. These are not
philologists. Everything that he just said, it doesn't matter. It's totally irrelevant to the
text. You cannot speak with your stupid mouth and affect a text that is 2000 years old.
You can't do it. You can't do it. So why do you bother? All you seminarians, all you professors
of Bible, why do you bother with the books that are so meaningless that have nothing to do with
the original sources? All you like to do, you like to inject your own garbage.
Let's go. Next one. This is Matthew 2020. Yeah. And he went to the, so what happens,
the mother, this is the mother, you know, of the sons of Zebedee, right? What does she do?
She comes there and she gets down in front of Jesus. She says, let me ask you something.
Let me ask you something. And what does she go on to do? She goes on to ask him, let my
kitty sit on your right and your left hand. He's like, listen lady.
Yeah. He's going to take him up to the room eventually. He's going to take him up to the
room. You know what happens in the room with Jesus? You get his flesh. Okay. I'm warning you
people. You wanted to see Jesus on drugs. What does somebody do Jesus at this age? What does
somebody do? How about some of the, some, some of the women again on the third day while she was
working at the purple? Who are we talking about? Who are we talking working on the purple with
her fingers? We're talking Mary, the mother of Jesus, the Magus, right? We're talking Mary,
this prophet, this is his virgin mother. She was raised in the temple, you fools.
Yeah. She's got her fingers in the purple. Isn't that nice? Salome likes her.
Hmm. Which one? Which one? Quick, go find her.
Here we go, Mary. What's going on? Some dude came in. He was hot, as hot can be. By the way,
I promised you I would do this. Henry Cavill. If, if I am a teacher of Greek, ancient Greek,
and if you would like to learn the language that inspires that stage where the actor stands,
I will give you free lessons. I'm told by Chewie who will rip my arms off
if I don't make this offer. So there you go. Are you happy? Are you happy, Chewie? Okay. You finally
got it. Don't, don't. Thank you, Henry. I appreciate your time, sir. Okay, let's go. What else is
Mary doing? After nine months, he came back to his house and found Mary pregnant. Oh, seriously,
how'd she get pregnant? Wherefore, being in the utmost distress, he trembled and cried out, saying,
Oh, Lord God, receive my spirit. For it's better for me to die than to live any longer.
No, okay, because he's afraid. This girl came out, this girl came out of the temple. This girl
came out of the temple. She was being raised in the temple with the purple. She was being fed
by angels. She was a dove. She was a dove. Who do you think the Magi would come to?
Did you think the Magi would come to anybody who was not the virgin born? Of course they wouldn't.
It's part of the cult, people. That's how we get there. Go back to that text.
Yeah, stop thinking about Henry. Get your head in the right place. Okay, and the virgins who
were with Mary said to him, Joseph, what are you saying? Wait, the virgins who were with Mary? I
told you they did something with that gold. I told you they did. How do you think a girl gets into
a temple? How do you think she gets there? Right? There's connections. The virgins who were with Mary
said to him, Joseph, what are you saying, you old boomer? We know that no man has touched her.
We can testify she's still a virgin and untouched, you know, because you can touch and still not be
a virgin, but this one is untouched. We have watched over her always. These are the virgins
talking. You hear the doves? Always she has continued with us in prayer. In prayer, people,
I want you to notice that daily do the angels of God speak with her. Do you know what a prophet
does? A prophet speaks with the angels. Daily does she receive food from the hand of the Lord?
Do you know how she hears those angels? She hears those angels through the purple. We know not how
it is possible there can be any sin in her. She is pure. But if you want it, wish to tell, okay,
and then she goes blah, blah, blah, right? I want you to see, take it down. I want you to see the
virgins talking now. You say what? The virgins, do you remember those girl prostitutes that fingered
Peter? And when I say fingered, I mean like in the 1950s way, you know, like, you know, you catch
somebody, right? Right? Yeah, I should have a hat and a trench coat. No, but they caught him.
They caught Peter. They were a couple of female prostitutes, underage female prostitutes. They
caught him, right? Who do you think these virgins are? Yeah, who do you think these virgins are?
They're working in the temple. Yeah, there's got to be gold behind this baby. There's got to be gold.
They bring it to him. Here it is. What are we here for? We're here for that virgin baby.
Yeah, yeah, gonna bring that, bring that star. Yeah, morning star. Okay, go to Egypt.
Now let's, let's go to the next one. And there will be in the final days. I know, thanks for
waiting, Gnostic, if you're out there. If you're not, I'm going to make fun of you. And there will
be in the, in the last days, says God, what? Ek heho, I will pour out. Those of you who were in
my class and you just looked at the hymn to Adonis, notice Ek and heho were separated before by a
death. You can take that prefix right off of its verb. You don't need to have it sitting on top of
it. It's like the Greeks already made the connection. You don't need it. Appo to Pnellmatos from,
from my spirit. What am I going to do? I'm going to pour it on the, on all flesh. I'm going to pour
it on all flesh and what's going to happen to that flesh. If this is making you excited, it should
worry you a little bit, right? Because you're starting to, you're starting to smell the vapors.
You're starting to get what's going on. And I'm going to make it, I'm going to put it on your
flesh, your flesh kitties. And what's going to happen? You're going to be prophets, the sons,
your sons and your daughters, they're all going to be prophets and your little pretty kids.
They're going to see visions and the old goats are going to have dreams. Take it down. Do you see
what Jesus was doing with his business? Do you see what the business of the prophet is?
Hit us again. We're almost through this people. Thank you for staying for so long, but we're going
to be done and we're going to go on after that. If you're sitting there with your, still with your
big TV for the people who said, I want you to sell my big TV and with the whole family,
shout out to you guys, get some pop, a little more popcorn, bring it down, right? What does he do,
Jesus? Back to Jesus. You're so disgusting. What does he do? He takes hold of Peter,
James and John. He takes them with them. And oh, here's the drugs people. What, what happens?
He begins to, and you got to tell, I'll tell you what Xombo means. Xombo is like when you take
a person who just got hit by a, by a linebacker. Yeah. And now they're laying on the ground.
They're kind of like, you know, they used to illustrate it with stars around the head. You
know what I mean? That is being out of your senses. That's that stunning, right? Jesus and the boys
begin to enter into this phase, this state. And what is something that's a demonet? Oh,
look at, look at this. Look at this. A demonet means to be sorely traveled, dismayed, to be an
anguish, to be an anguish. And notice that it's mental anguish. Go down to the next word. Yeah,
what is a podemos, to be a way, to be a way that they tell us. Alice tells us from Wonderland. She
tells us, hey, she whispers, hey, this is related to this derivation wise, away from one's country
or abroad. Do you know what it means to be out of your head? Look at that second line,
taste the mace, no mace. Yeah, to be gone, baby. He's entering a state of stonedness. And he is
dazed. He is dazed. Now, isn't there a naked kid somewhere? You know, every time you're with Jesus,
there's going to be a kid. And this time the kid's naked. Yes. Go back to the next one. Oh, love it.
What happens? And he says to them, what my soul, my soul is peri lupos, heo sanatu, to the point
of up until the stage of death. This is where my pain is my loopy. Look what he's doing. He's not
balling on the ground because he stubbed his toe or he broke his leg or something, right? His psyche
is being affected by what they took, what was on that bread that Nonus tells us, I don't care if he,
you like him or not, or think he's canonical or not, that Nonus tells us was full of the
antidote, was full of the poison that the antidote that he was given on the cross was meant to
counteract, the oxos, that was meant to counteract that stuff that he was putting in the bread that
he gave to Judas when he drugged Judas. Yeah, love it. Let's keep going. Let's keep going. Oh,
it's a long one, people. Jesus says, get up. Yeah, pray. What happens? Jesus is whacked and he comes
back to Peter, James and John. He leaves the naked boy that's in the middle of the park with him.
He comes back, stone throws away to where Peter, James and John are keeping guard. These teenage
boys are keeping guard. And what does he say happens to him? He did fall asleep and he says,
wait, Bill Cosby says what? He says, get up and pray. So you don't, okay, it's creepy. So you
don't enter into the temptation. So you don't enter that phase. You remember where that temptation
comes from, that perasmon, that comes from the place where we get kicked, the eremon, not the topos,
but the eremon, that wilderness, that void. That is where we get kicked under the influence of the
drug. And when you are there, that's when the trial takes place. That's when the trial takes place.
And he tells them, get up, get up and walk around, walk around and move, people, walk around and move
and pray. Are you ready? What are we doing? We're praying. What is Mary doing when she's being fed
by the angels? What is she doing when she's working with a purple? She's praying.
Keep going. We got to finish up. People are like, hurry up, old man. I'm tired. Watch what happens.
Jesus, can you tell me Jesus? One more time. Oh, one hit. Oh, I, oh, I can feel, I felt that one right
on his privies. Let's find out what this means. What happened, Jesus, to all your boys? Now,
they all ran away. Jesus lost his boys. He lost the lost boys in the end, right? Only a couple of
tried to follow him and they got scared off anyway because the female prostitutes were like,
dude, you're the boys from Galilee. We know you. We know what you guys are up to. Why do you think
one of them gets him in the temple, right? And Peter's walking behind him. Why do you think that
happens? Oh, they go fishing together. The priest, the dude who's overseeing temple access, he goes
out with one of Jesus's boys. You didn't see that kid there? They don't give him a name.
Right? He's got his oil. Yeah, let's go to the next one. And what happens? There was a
Neoniskus. There was some kid. Look, it even uses an indefinite here. Tiss. Just some kid.
There was some kid serving Jesus wrapped up in a, excuse me, wrapped where? Wrapped epigumnos,
wrapped on his privy members with a bandage. And they went to grab him, the arresting people,
because you know they were going to enter that into the record. Jesus Christ, you and I are
sitting here. Take it down. You and I are sitting here. And you and I cannot use that boy as a
witness because of history because he got away. If the Romans had caught him, you still would
have been crucified. But church would have never been born. Church would have never been born with
that naked kid that was with Jesus when he was arrested. If we had that naked kid's testimony,
Jesus Christ would have been one of history's biggest criminals, not the Savior. And certainly
not the one who is twisting your world. Yeah. Yeah. It's Rico Laws, baby. Let's go to the next one.
Mark 1452. And what did the kid do? He left behind the sendona, right? He dropped the sendona. He
dropped that bandage and afugin gumnos and ran away. Gumnos. There is no mistaking this word right
here in people. In Greek, this word right here. There is no mistaking. It means naked. Naked. Gumnos.
Naked. Good. So what happened to your kids, Jesus? They all ran away, including the one that was with
him that had a medicated bandage on his private parts with Jesus in a public park at 4 a.m.
And what about Jesus' face? Did the arresting officers get any sort of description? Yeah.
Remember, he has this bloody kind of dark, reddish, clotted blood stuff for his hudor.
His hudor. What is it? Bring it. Give me the next one. Give me the next one.
And going out to pray, you know, he comes across as apostles, right? We're turning back from that
prayer. He comes back to his apostles and he finds them comatose, right? And what are they
comatose from? They're comatose from Lupe, from that state, that state of anguish that leads to death.
They're there. Can this cup pass, Jesus? Can you take this cup away? Right? No.
Fortunately, people, it's the will. It's the will of you know who. Gotta bring that cup. Jesus has
got it too, even with his stuff that's all over his face. And look here at the bottom, people.
Just look. As Jesus has stoned, look at this bottom line. Comatose. They were like clots of blood.
And what are they doing? What are they doing? Coming down into that earth, coming down into that
basal layer where we know Erechtheus. Erechthonius, if you want to say.
The Erechtheum is built in honor. That offspring of the virgin. Who is Erechthonius?
He's the offspring of the virgin. He's half serpent.
Half serpent. He is the son of God. He is the son of God produced by the
the Etuchos. Yeah, the God bearer. That's who he is. Let's go. Go to last. We're almost there.
Last one. People look. No, go back. Back up one. People look here. What's happening when Jesus has
this stuff on his face, right? Which makes you wonder, right? You evangelicals, you can excuse this
and say, oh, this is, you can have a disorder of your sweat glands and it causes you to produce
a dark red material. This is what Jesus must have. It's amazing the links that you idiots will go to.
It's amazing. Let's go. And I mean idiot people, not like a modern idiot. I mean like an antiquity.
Somebody who has no access. Yeah, fantastic. Let's go to that last one. What's this stuff?
Where is Jesus when he's in the middle of this? He is in the middle of Agonia and you think you're
a Catholic, you're a Protestant and you know the agony. You're Mel Gibson and you know the agony.
You put it up and put it up on the screen and you know what you did? You lied because you don't read
Greek. You don't read classical texts. You have no idea who any of these thousand authors are. You
have no idea these thousands of pages. You have no idea. All you get is what you hear from a priest
or a preacher or when you pick up your book and King James molests you with his translation.
That's all you get. By the way, we're going to be done soon and not only with this episode but with
Satanic initiation and I am looking for students. I'm looking for students who are serious
and who want the tool. Who want the tool, right? I joked about Henry Cavill. I wouldn't
charge you in. I may charge you half. But that's a serious offer, Judy. That's a serious offer. But
I'm looking for the best of the best. I'm looking for Samurai is what I'm looking for.
I'm looking for Ronan and I'm looking to train them. So anybody who's interested, anybody who's
interested needs to find me. Go to the next one. Jesus is an agony people. What is his agony? What
is the agony really? It's a contrast, a contest or a struggle. Notice they put gymnastic exercises.
What is that all going to do? What is that all going to do? It is a place up here where you go
and Jesus is there as a magus with his children who are drugged. This, take it down. This is the
reality. This is the reality of what you've got in Christianity. This is the real that I'm bringing
you today. I want you to see Jesus for the person that he was, for the person that he was.
I want you to see him with the people that he worked with. I want you to know whether you're
Christian or Jew, Muslim, atheist. It's the same group. You're all atheists. I want you to see
Jesus for who he is. It looks like we don't have Gnostic tonight. Gnostic was going to tell you about
Epiminides. Perhaps he'll call up. It's time now Gnostic to come up. I'll give him two minutes,
but he may tell you about Epiminides with his quote that Paul uses. It turns out people that
that quote is from, do we send him? Okay. I'll assume he can't make it, but he had an excellent
point. That's that we have a source. It comes through Fodius quoting somebody. Tall of me,
somebody or else. Anyhow, by the way, there are thousands of these unknown people from Antiquity
who an author like Galen will say, the physician Andreas says in his great work, blah, blah,
blah. You didn't even know there was such thing as a dude named Andreas who was writing medical
documents, right? But yeah, he's there, right? And one of these talks about, one of these talks about
Epiminides quote and says, Hey, this thing is actually from Medea. Medea was the one who used
it. When Paul quotes Epiminides, he is quoting Medea directly. He is quoting Medea directly.
Yeah. When she called the Cretans liars because they had misjudged the contest.
Yeah. Paul quotes that through Epiminides, which is highly, highly ironic, beautiful and
ironic at the same time. Tonight, we got to see a little bit of Jesus. We got to see a little
testimony. We got to see who the man was, where he came from, what kind of life he was living,
what kind of life he was living. Now, we only have two sessions left. We only have one more
satanic initiation and we only have one more Bible study. So I will be bringing you on Friday,
the Omega. Thank you all for coming. Hail Satan.
Why did you ever change your name?
