Take me to that happy hour I never had
Show me the girl I never met I want it so bad
Where is that golden palace? Where is that horc called destiny?
I think she ran on without me
Welcome to Season 2 of Lady Babylon's Satanic Initiation.
Tonight we will get a glimpse into the personal.
We're going to look at a woman learning the history of women.
We don't have much time so I'll make it brief.
Tonight I want you to know that I had a request sent to me this week.
One of many student requests of a person looking for someone to guide the research
of a sophomore in high school on a paper on the history of women in antiquity.
She sent the request to me specifically and not to other instructors on the place that I teach.
I wrote her back swiftly and with determination because I was asked as a graduate student
to come into the women's studies classes and to teach some women's studies from the sources that I work with.
The medical sources, pharmacological, the magic to bring those sources forward and to show people.
This is great opportunity for me to advance on who else would not want to learn.
In the email that I sent her back, I made it very clear that what she needed and what I could provide,
see if I was a good fit or not, was the sources that harbor these images of the ancient woman
and who she is, the sources themselves.
We don't want that lattice that's built up on scholarship.
Scholarship, great scholarship, modern scholarship on women.
We'll look at modern scholarship on women by talking about quoting Mary Beard,
who many of you have probably heard of.
She's associated with the classics department, or she was at one time, I don't know if she still is, Cambridge.
So a scholar of scholars, so before we quote Mary and bring her into this brawl,
my object is to teach you the sources, if you're my student, to give you the sources that you can work with them
via the instrument that I use, namely the ancient Greek.
This is standard classics protocol for, this is what we do, we translate.
Anyway, Mary Beard, how can she help me now to be able to give these the next generation of women, the history of women.
Sadly, the responsibility can fall short of the deliverance if we turn aside from the primary sources.
People want to give you theories, and this is where our public safety announcement comes in today.
People will want to give you theories, and theories are a whole, there's a market of them, and they drive an economy of scholars, academicians.
You will always have them with you.
Whatever society you're in, these people will exist, and their system is driven by their ideas.
The problem is, we come to the museum where we hold sacred the news.
We do not hold forward ideas or theories.
We look at the words.
We look at the last material expressions that we have surviving from these cultures.
That's what we look at.
I don't want you to have to go to a back alley with a stranger.
I don't want you to.
Tonight's question is, who is the one who is to be believed?
Is it the bald guy with the tattoos?
Or is it the Cambridge professor?
Who is also of high-ranking value within British aristocratic society?
Yes, who's more believable than that?
Yes, yes, the dame or the dude with the shaved head.
So you can be deceived.
You can be deceived.
You can think that you're getting a source, that's a legitimate source.
That person can tell you anything, then, if you've fallen into the trust.
Oh, it's okay.
I trust you.
What we do here is we insist upon our sources.
We insist upon our sources.
Don't tell me what your ideas are.
Tell me what the sources say.
Can we bring up the quotes from Mary Beard?
Yes, there is at first sight a rather impressive array of powerful female characters
in the repertoire of Greek myth and Greek art telling.
In life, ancient women had no formal political rights.
They had precious little economic or social independence.
And in some cities like Athens, respectable married women were almost never seen outside the home.
Any time that you have a generalization, I mean, how do you judge whether any of this is accurate?
Any time you have a generalization about antiquity, you're talking about two millennia of time
and you're talking about dozens and dozens of independent cultures.
Oh, my goodness, to say that to give a generalization, it doesn't matter what it's about.
Now, this happens to you all the time if you're in church.
It happens to you in church because remember, this is how it starts.
This is how you end up in the back alley.
Okay, so I'm telling you, these are the lines that start the process.
In biblical times, everybody sat on their hands all lunch and whistled Dixie.
Yes, you might believe that from an authority.
You might believe that.
But if you hear the generalization, realize generalizations never hold up in history.
They never hold up.
You can talk about cycles.
You can talk about repetition.
You can talk about trends, but you cannot hold a generality up.
Anytime a scholar comes to you and says, all blanks did this, you know that they have an agenda to push.
Something's being pushed.
When I taught the section of the women's studies course that I taught, I brought all the concrete in.
I want you to see these women.
These are the women I want you to see from antiquity.
Give us the list of women, please.
Yes, starting with women.
Yes.
Who else do we bring you?
You need to see midwives.
You need to see the teachers.
You need to see doctors.
You need to see priestesses.
You need to see Queens.
Let's throw them into why not a social club here.
They're fantastic.
Anybody else?
Oh, of course.
The witches.
The witches.
Let's not forget the witches because everything is coming from the witches.
It's all coming back from the witches are lying through the cave.
Here's the pharmacology.
It's the pharmacology.
Bring up the second quote of Mary Beard, please.
Yes.
Athene drama.
And the Greek imagination has offered our main imaginations a whole series of unforgettable
women.
Names like Medea, Clytemnestra, or Antigone, among many others can still ring a loud bell
for us.
They are not, however, role models for anybody far from it.
Please pull up.
Now, again, you're sitting there.
You're sitting there and you're saying these are the words of wisdom from Cambridge, from
the eye that's tough, that breeds all of those such intelligent creatures comes this voice,
this irraculate voice of Mary Beard.
And Mary Beard tells us something about women.
And now I don't know whether to believe it.
Now I don't know.
Are these people not to be?
Were they intentionally written as not to be admired?
That's what she's saying.
It's odd.
And okay, let's just get in our spaceship and let's go back in time.
Let's go to Italy.
Let's go to the Marcy, the culture that develops near the temple of Angitia.
And who is the temple?
Who is Angitia?
This is Angitia.
And who is Angitia?
She is the one who brings the healing to us.
She is the one who brings the healing.
She is the one who cures us of the snake bites.
She is the one who knows all of the pharmacology.
Who is this person that showed up in Italy and gets worshiped as a woman?
Forget about what did you say?
Property or political rights?
When people are building temples to you, this is a kind of power.
That has nothing to do with your estimation, your modern anachronistic estimation of feminine power.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Feminine power.
That's Angitia.
And who do our sources tell us that Angitia is?
You know it.
It's Medea.
It says her son ruled there.
He ruled there.
Yes.
She visited coming from her union with the Greek prince.
Yes.
They set up a society.
They set up authority.
Yes.
And this is before an entire group, an ethnic group, living around the Black Sea, decided to call itself after its queen.
The 13 year old city and queen in full armor is a beautiful.
They just, they just dug up is a beautiful, beautiful refutation of everything that Mary Beard said.
Yes.
Beautiful refutation.
The chief, the most powerful, the greatest.
Yes.
Full armor.
Arrows.
Probably poison.
Nice.
Nice.
And where are they perfecting all these poisons?
Insidia, right?
With the, with the mobile tribes of horsemen.
Yeah.
And their royal lines.
Yes.
Fantastic.
Greek influence.
African influence.
Gorgeous.
It's Edim.
It's Eden.
Nice.
Let's go ahead, put flash Mary Beard's picture up there because we don't, we want to give her credit.
Right.
That's Mary Beard.
You can find her work on online.
Yes.
Now, whether or not the person is going to, let's leave and get to you up there, whether or not the person is going to allow me to teach a history of women based upon the physicians and midwives.
And there is a difference.
The Eaterina is the female and it may actually be the oldest word for doctor.
Okay.
So is it probably coming from the midwifery?
Yeah.
Right.
And we know that the, all the old drugs are old abortion drugs.
What are we going to do about this abortion business?
Right.
If you're going to talk about women, you better talk about abortion.
It's a huge issue.
Maybe more so than you think because one out of three women dies in childbirth.
Yeah.
So family planning is serious.
It's life and death.
Yeah.
So whether or not we're going to get these images brought to you will be determined by whoever wants to know the sources.
Or the modern lattice of scholarship that clouds over those sources.
Right.
This puts an interpretation on something that gives it a, an agenda, a movement.
This is meant to cause this and people, these guys that will come behind that will get you and take you behind the building.
They are from Princeton and they are from Harvard.
They're from Oxford.
They're from Cambridge.
Wow.
How did this happen?
The, you know what's funny?
Um, Princeton's program is imploding, right?
They just, they announced it.
Well, it was six months ago.
Maybe that they're cutting their Greek program because he's the language of the oppressor.
Yeah.
That's what they came up with.
You know, it's their ideas and they're throwing them around in a hundred years from now nobody will care.
But we may have forgotten the text.
And we may not have people trained to bring that out of the ground.
Yeah.
To bring it to.
You know, you're not being taken behind the building if I'm giving you or anybody is giving you the actual sources.
If you are working with the evidence at the crime scene, that's what, that's what matters.
And otherwise you should say, I don't care.
And here's that I don't care moment.
Thanks to Zane Campbell.
Can we cue that?
I don't care a moment.
I don't care about nothing today.
I'm going to do what I was going to do anyway.
I don't care about another morning.
I don't know no Halloween.
I don't care about what you think about me.
I don't care.
That is the scholars.
True truest emotion, right?
We should care nothing.
Those of us here should care nothing about anything, but the integrity of those voices of antiquity.
That's what we should care about.
I would love it if Mary Beard would start reading some of the pharmacological sources, some of the medical sources, some of the focusing maybe on some of the religious cult sources, some of the magic, maybe.
There's a whole area of hymns.
You know, those Homeric hymns, those Homeric hymns, Mary, they're about a lot of women.
So we might want to consider that in Athens, the place that you so brilliantly told us was so repressive that you can walk to the top of the hill, Mary.
You can look into the temple and you can see the Virgin.
You can see the Virgin, Mary.
That's what we need to bring is the Virgin.
Bring back the Virgin.
Yes, if you want to study ancient women, study the Virgin.
You'd be fascinated.
What are all these priestesses doing?
Oh my goodness.
What are these oracles?
Mary, the oracles.
What are the oracles doing?
Mary, those oracles are women.
You know that, Mary.
You know that.
What are they doing?
They're distributing the power of antiquity.
Yeah.
Distributing the power of antiquity.
Medea, whom Mary Beard has decided is not worth emulation in antiquity.
Her word was oracle.
Pindar, perhaps the greatest poet that the Greeks ever produced.
Pindar preserves her oracle.
Taking directly from the hands of the pithya herself.
Yes.
These are not people to emulate.
These are not.
No.
No.
In antiquity, they were.
They were the.
I want you to make sure that your Bible times are in the right place that we
understand what when we're in Bible time water, I want to take you really
quickly to Eros.
I want to take you to a text tonight.
Yes.
Yes.
Isn't this beautiful?
I'm going to read it just for a second.
Kaisophos.
Autodidactos.
Eros.
Iona.
Nomelon.
Protagonon.
Haeos.
Zaphrus.
Oh, isn't it?
Bring it off.
Let me just translate.
Let me just translate to you.
Yes.
And the wise self taught God Eros.
The one who administers the one who administers the ion.
Isn't that nice?
The administer of the ion.
Yes.
He pounds at the gates, the dark gates.
Of the first born chaos.
And he is readying or engaging himself in his, bring up a text again.
Eodokin the elaton.
Yes.
Eodokin.
And for those of you who were here last week, you'll see Eon on the
front of Eodokin is from Eos.
Let's bring up Eodokin, please.
Yep.
There we go.
Oh, nice.
Holding arrows.
This is actually to describe the pharetre.
Right.
You know, you're, we're talking about quivers here.
Right.
Something that holds arrows.
Look at the second definition though, of that, in that.
Yeah.
Yeah.
There we go.
Containing poison.
Eodokin here is in the feminine is that was just containing poison.
Like the fangs.
Right.
The teeth.
Right.
So it's an instrument.
Those arrows are an instrument.
Arost.
Think not.
Not Pudgy baby.
Right.
Think of Aros, the primal.
Right.
The one who brings everything with dark night into existence.
That's the figure we're looking at.
He has his arrows, his quiver.
Full of his arrows that do what?
Bring the God head.
Okay.
That's important.
It's given him a label.
It does this with the drugs.
The Greek does this with the drugs as well.
When we saw the death, bringing drugs.
Right.
The early death, bringing drugs here.
It's the same thing.
His, his arrows are labeled as the ones that bring you the divine.
The ones that bring you the divine.
Yes.
And he's, he's got these that he keeps and on them are written in gold letters.
Written in gold letters.
These oyster bring us up the oyster.
What are oyster?
An arrow.
Look what the derivation uncertain.
Now, for those of you who have been here a while, you know that oyster is just lacking
that row there.
I told you about the row that disappears like the diagram.
Yes.
So there's again, an association, you know, we're building on a people and a culture
and that culture was poison using arrow wielding peoples with Queens, with Queens.
Yes.
And anyway, arrows goes on with these arrows describing a list of the 12 stars.
Those 12 burning arrows.
We're, we're in magic now in case you don't realize we crossed over.
Uh-oh.
We got to recognize what's going on here.
Where are we?
Necromancers.
So you've got the 12 arrows and he starts out of course with IO.
IO, right?
IO.
And we moved from IO to Europa.
Yeah.
And then you realize, oh, wait a minute.
He's composing a list of these women just like Herodotus did.
Wait a minute.
Wait a minute.
What?
Herodotus made a list of women who were being abducted.
They were being taken away from their homes and established elsewhere as oracles.
Yeah.
Yeah.
As IO is literally in the oistress, right?
That's who she is.
So by the time that we have this list and it begins, it begins with IO and Europa.
And by the way, Medea is one of those mentioned in Herodotus, right?
He's one of, she's one of those.
Yeah.
Right up front.
And these are causing wars and whatnot.
These situations are causing war.
Apparently these women are so important not to be emulated.
Mary Beard says, but apparently in antiquity, they're so important that people are starting
wars over what they can do over their capacity.
Hmm.
Fantastic.
Maybe it's worth taking off your lens and looking at it from their point of view instead of
yours from the last 2000 years forward.
Right?
Yeah.
So here they are.
Here they are.
And the last of the women on these lists, this list is Olympus, right?
Olympus.
Who's Olympus the mother of Alexander, right?
Who under the possession of the burning purple communes with Zeus himself in the form of
Amon as a serpent.
Right?
So what do we have going on?
You have two very conflicting images of antiquity.
One of them is real, just based in sources.
Just read the sources to yourself.
Don't.
Everything that I told you tonight is just directly stolen wholeheartedly from the sources.
Read those sources.
If you read the modern, you're going to get a version that might not stand up to what the
sources say.
And to be honest, modern scholars have so let down women's studies.
They have completely dropped the ball completely.
If you knew half of what was being investigated by just the witches, pharmacologists, sorceresses,
Magi, cults, the Orphics, if you knew just a half of what they were working with, what
they were experimenting with, you would be shocked and you'd understand what the mystery
was all about.
You'd understand, oh, this is the performance of the mystery.
This is the performance of the mystery.
Yes.
So my question to you tonight that I want to leave you with because we're approaching
touchdown is what reality are you following?
Whose reality is it?
If it has anything to do with any dead people, you're going to get lured into a corner.
Controlling the information that you are given about your reality has been happening as long
as we have recorded written history.
It's been happening.
That's why we follow Pythagoras.
We form that museum.
If we're going to set down a colony, if we're going to raise a colony, if we're going to
bring civilization, we have to raise that temple to the muse.
Without that temple to the muse, we have nothing.
Right here, right now, we have access to everything.
These documents are all there.
We have access to them.
Cambridge, Oxford, they don't have it wrapped up in a cabinet.
No.
No, we have access to it now.
So I would love an army.
I would love an army of women to start writing women's history.
I would love it.
I would love it.
And that way you don't have to have me teach your daughter.
You can teach yourself confidently knowing it's from the source, but, but, and I think
this is why London Times said what I at the conference that I was at presenting, they said
this work that I was doing was the last frontier of classics.
Yeah, it's not just that it's the last frontier.
It's that it's what we have entirely missed that has skewed our understanding of history.
So I would encourage you tonight.
I would encourage you tonight to realize that what you may be perceiving may be a mechanism of control.
A mechanism of control.
Right.
Go back to the muse, go to your sources, work with the sources.
And if you want, if you want the to get down to the very dirt, go to the instrument itself.
Do not trust somebody because they have a name or a reputation or a badge from an association.
Trust them if they're dead.
Trust them if they're dead.
Yes.
If you drag up an ancient Roman, bring them in, pull up somebody from, I mean, the mind.
Can you imagine the affrontery, the bold brashness of saying that this woman who was hailed as an Oracle, who has had temples built to her, who raised and lowered entire kingdoms.
Wow.
To present you with an image of the world.
I think it's, I think it's really why Jehovah lies in the very beginning.
Remember Joe for Jehovah.
He tells them right off the bat.
This is no good.
If they eat it, they're going to have their eyes open and they're going to be like us knowing good and evil.
Yeah, they shouldn't be like that.
Right.
No.
Right.
Tell them it's going to kill them.
You're just going to have your eyes open.
And then what does the text say?
They had their eyes open.
It follows along.
The text follows along with the, with the proposition that the lie is coming from Jehovah trying to stop them.
Right.
Just no good.
No good.
He's been a liar from the beginning, from the very beginning.
And I think that's what I think that's what the problem is.
When you fight for Jehovah, when you fight for that thing that you, they have identified as modern scholars have identified as such a terrible patriarchal source.
Yeah.
You're going to come up against that lie.
Yeah.
The fruit was good.
Guess what?
She ate it and she was smart.
And she did a lot of good things.
And we made statues to her.
And no, we aren't misogynists.
Yes.
We are worshipers of the Virgin.
Yeah.
Magna Mater.
You know, there's a connection.
I'll get, I'll finish with this.
Angizia there that I showed you and her worship in Italy.
Yes.
Yes.
I'll get started with Bonadia.
And all of a sudden, when you say Bonadia, you say, oh my God, that's central Roman religion, right?
And the rights of Bonadia with, um, what are they doing with the one, the alabaster that they're using and their women's only rights.
Yes.
Yes.
Medical, medical, think medical, religious.
Yes.
These are the things this is the, this is the environment that we need to come to now in order to see.
In order to see, um, the reality and get back on our ship when we come back home.
And now if you want to believe what Mary beard has given you, at least you have some ancient sources to contradict what the modern scholars are saying.
Right.
Never trust the secondary work.
Never.
It's just somebody's opinion.
It's just somebody's opinion.
Never trust the primaries.
Rule with the primaries, promote the primaries.
And I guess now I see that Rob has come.
Rob, please tell us for the great island upon which you sit, your impression of, you know, the dangers.
Is this a good time to have a public safety announcement about the dangers of these ox fortians and gringians of coming into our society and taking out our
children, taking them into back alleys and doing things to them that are unacceptable.
What is with the islands now?
Is this, is this me or is my indignation righteous?
Oh, you're going to love it.
You get season two and you can't do without me.
Can you?
Um, is that the same shades?
Is that a new shades?
That's, that's because I was thinking, is he going to wear the same shades season two?
Yeah.
No, no, Rob, this is, you'll always see me.
Is there a problem with my shirt, Rob?
This shirt is important.
Same shades, same shades.
So we're talking about a local girl.
She's from Shrewsbury.
There's Mary and I'm willing to bet it's bad.
I do, I do like beard.
But I'm willing to bet it's Mary bad.
Yeah.
Yeah.
She's a local girl.
And if I would collapse on me at the minute, that's the right time.
But, um, do you think she might be an Oracle by any chance?
Um, yeah.
And excuse me, Miss Baird, however you pronounce it.
Um, we'll, uh, um, excuse me if I've mispronounced your name.
But, um, do I think that she's an Oracle?
What are you, what are you smoking?
Are you here for the last 20 minutes?
Well, well, you know what?
Usher, come get this man.
Do you know what she's wrote?
In 1989, she wrote, the good working mother's guide did Mary Baird.
That's it.
Like, so is an Oracle a good working mother, would you think?
Um, yeah.
No, I still, I'm sorry.
But the whole insult to Medea, no, the whole insult to Medea, she
could have written, she could have written everything, everything in the
world.
Um, if, uh, for that premise to be so off, uh, about women and antiquity,
it takes, it's like, uh, I can't, um, you know, John Scarborough,
John Scarborough, the well-known John Scarborough told me, he said,
don't, don't you, you, that secondary literature is going to mess with
your mind.
It's going to mess with your mind.
I want the sources.
I want the sources.
Mary Baird is another, is another secondary source.
And it's, no, I can't Oracle.
Now, now my mind is blown.
Let me, let me take you to another book.
That was, I mean, that's 1989.
So we've got, we've got another book, which is, um, pagan priests.
Religion and power in the ancient world.
Now what's missing?
What's missing from that title?
Pagan priests, religion and power in the ancient world.
I suppose women is missing.
Maybe, maybe, maybe there's some, maybe there's some women there.
So yeah, you, you, you're quite correct.
She, uh, and she, she, because I knew she was coming up.
So I took the liberty of watching, watching a documentary on
Caligula.
You know, so, uh, what, what took from that is she knows about
poisons.
She, she mentions as emperors bumped off with poison mushrooms.
And which I was surprised as she mentioned the mushrooms,
actually.
But she, so, uh, all the people dropping dead with poison,
and it seems I want, I wonder where the poisons made.
I wonder if she's considered.
Where's that poison made?
Where's it coming from?
Uh, where, where's the root of that poison coming through?
Cause do you think she might know?
Seriously.
Do you think she knows?
Intentionally.
No, she knows.
She knows.
She knows.
That's where she gets that reference.
Yeah.
Right.
And he knows, he, he'll talk about poison that, but she doesn't
know the medical sources.
She doesn't know.
I guarantee she doesn't know.
She doesn't know.
Diascorties.
She doesn't know.
Scrobonius Largus.
Right.
She may have heard.
Diascorties, but she doesn't read Scrobonius Largus.
Right.
And so how, how can we talk about cult drugs?
If she doesn't read the people that we're talking about cult drugs.
This is, this is a fact.
Modern day classicists do not study the medical side because it
demands too much crossover.
So it's their loss.
It's their loss.
Sorry.
Where do you suppose she's getting that information from, for
the distinction as the poison's coming from mushrooms rather
than any other source?
Cause she's got that distinction there with the mushrooms.
Yeah.
That's, that's quite, that's quite interesting.
And also I was interested in the time.
Yeah.
The time.
She's talking about.
Tell us mushrooms.
Cause, cause this was written hundreds of years after apparently
and it's, this, this story is of Caligula has written
100 years after by the, by the source, isn't it?
And I'm wondering about the timeframe.
Have we got St. John drinking poison at the same time?
You know, John.
St. John.
St. John.
I don't know of a source that talks about St.
John drinking poison, but it doesn't mean it's not after.
He was offered poison in a, in a chalice, won't he?
And there's, there's images of him out there and he's holding
a chalice with a snake in a cup and a chalice.
And, and as the story goes, as he drinks the whole, the whole
measure and it doesn't affect him in the slightest.
Is this, is this later medieval?
Is it Byzantine?
Do you remember what this is?
I never heard that one.
But there's a lot of the, a lot of the Gnostic and a lot of the
Coptic stuff out there, the Gospels that, that, yeah.
When you go through images and you get John up on images,
you'll, you'll find one with it and like, it just adds to the
snakes everywhere, snakes everywhere.
You go into research is snakes, serpents everywhere, littered,
littered with these things all around.
So she knows, she knows, she knows about the poisons in my
opinion.
It was Mary bad.
So do you want to listen to her honors list?
I mean, this honors list is you talk, you talk about credentials
and have you got any credentials?
And you know what I'm like, I go through these credentials and
I noticed this Princess of Asturias Award.
She's won a Princess of Asturias Award.
And I just got, you know, I'm looking out for the ST
Sigma Tower route.
I am in that.
And do you, do you get any sort of impression from that, that
that Prince of the Princess of Asturias Award?
No, no, that doesn't do it.
That doesn't, again, Rob, it doesn't do anything for me.
Once you've shown me, yeah, that she can read satanist.
That's great.
Once you've shown me that you're going to talk about an area
that you know nothing about, right, that you're not bringing
the medicine into, that you're not talking about women who are
in these positions, and then you have the effrontery to bring
up Medea and say that she is represented as somebody that
you would not, you would not want to be.
I cannot, I don't care if she's from the Royal Society of
the Throne of Satan.
I don't care if she's got burning purple on her coat of arms
anymore.
We've now violated the muse, right?
She's not going to those sources.
She's supposed to be a classicist.
She's supposed to do this, to make a statement like a flashed
up there, right?
It's unforgivable.
It's in the world of the real, it's unforgivable.
I mean, she'll go on with a career and a problem, and
everything's fine, and people will read it and they'll think,
yes, and maybe some of them will think, oh my God, she's part
of the society, society of Astaria, and none of it will
matter, because we'll miss the frigging sources, Rob.
We'll miss the sources.
And that's, that's, that's what needs to be pounded, right?
Why are we not doing that?
We have the opportunity to do that.
What other accolades do we, do you want to talk about?
I have a suspicion though, is they don't, you say they
don't read the sources, but they must be aware of the
sources, and ignore the sources, and not include the
sources for, for a reason.
There's a reason there, why, like in, in Professor Rock's
situation, you know, you pay a price for revealing some of
the sources at times, don't you?
Yeah, you do, and, and there are things that people don't
want to talk about.
Nobody wants to talk about magic, right?
It's, maybe in the last few years has started to become
more popular.
But when I was doing my degree program, you know, there was
one or two people in the country working on it in the
U.S.
That's it.
Which is funny, because, because you have far more magic
than you have just about every other genre.
So, so why aren't people studying it?
Well, it's because we've lived through 2,000 years of
Christianity and its anti-sorcerer, anti-Satanist,
you know, power, power, and yet still 330,000 people
getting abused, right?
We need the facts.
We need the facts.
I don't think she's, I don't think anything.
My difficulty is not with Mary Beard.
My difficulty is with separating our sacred, our sacred
duty to the sources and our desire to be looked upon
and loved and cherished as a genius.
And here's the documentary on blah.
You know, I, I did a documentary too that based on
my book, right?
And it's a, it's a, a, a sinkhole.
It's a sinkhole of meism, right?
It's a sinkhole of meism.
That documentary should be there, not for the glory
of the individual, right?
Or for the professorship or for the seated chair of
so-and-so or the distinguished visiting scholar of so-and-so.
It should be access in the museum.
It should be what you see when you walk up in the museum.
You see access to the sources right away.
That's what we're supposed to do with classics.
That's what Tom Jefferson did, right?
And that's not what has come out of classics.
If there's a, if we're fighting tyrants, it's probably
a good reason that there's probably a correlation with
Princeton just decapitating its own Greek program, right?
Yeah.
Guess what?
That's, that's what happens when you let that information
go.
Yeah.
I know it was, I know it will sound like I'm being
awfully hard, awfully hard.
Do I sound hard to you, Ryan?
No, and I'm coming from a kind of sarcastic point of view.
It's like sarcasm because, because there's a, where's
that one going?
Confronting the classics.
Confronting the classics.
Traditions, adventures and innovations.
You know, is she confronting the classics?
I don't think there's any confrontation in that,
is there?
Personally.
And what you need to do is confront the classics where
there's information that you have and that Professor
Rook has given us.
Amongst others who wouldn't dare, wouldn't dare step,
step foot into these realms where it's basically you get
your, you get your wrist slaps and step back, don't you?
Is that, is that this situation?
I really want to know what the situation is.
The situation?
In this academic circle where, where basic sources,
and sources what are easily accessible and now, now,
in our day and age now, sources are accessible, aren't they?
You didn't, you used to have to go to the library.
You used to have to go get order books and take a good while
to do a good amount of research.
Nowadays, you can get that done on you, in your hand, can't you?
Yeah.
So in these academic circles, why is it the case that this is
taboo and we cannot talk about it or discuss it, not even raise
it to up for discussion?
Just even by, like, intellectual people will not allow this
taboo subject of drugs.
And they've tried to change the word, don't you?
They'll change the word to antheogen and we'll change the
word to make it a little bit more acceptable to discuss.
And that's done, that's done wonders, hasn't it, for the
discussion, changing the word other than drugs.
Because as soon as somebody mentions drugs, it's like,
ah, nobody does drugs.
Don't do drugs.
Drugs are bad.
It's like a Nancy Reagan period, isn't it?
Yeah, I think it's, I think it's the built-in anti-drug
culture that we've got, but I think it's also the fault of
the, it's partially the fault of the academicians that they
don't study certain fields because their job is to carve out
something that they can stand on the top of the hill.
I was there, right?
I lived with them, I ate with them, I worked with them.
Your job is to find some hill somewhere where you can
distinguish yourself.
Anybody else who comes up the side of that hill, you knock
them down, right?
These are my ideas.
This is my, that's, no, that's not what you do.
That's not what you need.
And you don't need that from me or Karl Ruck or anyone else.
You need the sources and now you have access to them.
If you want to look up these drugs, you have diascorities
sitting there.
Go look up the drugs.
Go look up what the women are recommending you do with the
drugs.
Go look up any, any cases of abortion.
What happens?
Look up the gynecologists, find them.
You can find them.
They're out there, right?
Not out, not all of it's been translated yet.
Not all of it's been translated.
And that's the only, that's the only reason I say you've got to
go to the instrument.
You've got to have that instrument.
You've got to have that ability to pick up the New Testament
and read it.
It's the same for the seminarians.
If you can't read that thing, if you don't know what those
word means, if you're just going off and interlinear, this is
how they do seminaries.
They give you the Greek on one line in English, English right
above it.
Boom.
Well, what are you doing then?
You're not really doing anything.
You are memorizing a preset definition.
Let me give you the example logos.
I hope this will, I hope this will reach people logos because
it's common.
Everybody will translate this as word and everybody is wrong.
Everybody is wrong.
A seasoned classicist will tell you.
No, logos doesn't mean word.
That means an accounting or a reckoning.
And this word flows through philosophy, through
pre-Socratic philosophy.
It flows into an area of specialty.
Yeah.
Where when somebody comes up and says in the beginning was the
logos, you're not going to understand what it means.
If you think it means word.
You cannot read those texts.
So when you come along as a pastor or as a classicist like
Mary Beard, if you come along and you say, oh, I'm going to
tell you what this means and you use that interlinear
translation and it's not because you've been reading Greek.
If you haven't read Plato as a pastor, if you haven't read
Hippocrates, don't tell me about Luke.
Don't tell me a darn thing about Luke.
If you haven't read Hippocrates, you don't know what.
Oh, yeah, you don't know.
Drugs.
Drugs again, right?
If you don't know those topics, don't talk about the
frankincense.
Don't talk about the Magi.
If you don't know who the Magi were, if you haven't read Cal,
if your pastor hasn't read Caldean philosophy.
Caldean philosophy.
Caldean incantations.
Then forget about it.
You're not going to understand the Magi.
You're not going to know what that star was and you can have
all the crazy ideas in your head you want.
But don't blame those original sources.
This is your fault.
You're the one who sat there in the audience and you listen
to Mary, right?
You didn't go back to those sources.
Stand up.
Ask Mary.
Give us the source and why is it?
Why is this source talk about a woman as a physician?
Why does it talk about a woman as a physician?
Who's this?
I thought women didn't have any power.
Didn't have any place.
Didn't have any socioeconomic.
Why are Paul's supporters all women?
Wealthy women.
Wait a minute, Mary.
I thought in the great world of antiquity, no women had
disability.
They were all oppressed.
Do you hear what's happening?
This is how stuff like fascism comes to rise, right?
Once you control that information of history, you control
everything.
And I'm not saying, I'm not saying, Rob, and I'll get off my
podium now, but I'm not saying you need, I'm not saying that
you, you need to buy what I'm selling.
Never would.
You don't need to buy me or Karl Rock.
You don't need to.
You need those sources.
You need to look at them yourself and figure out what they
are, you know, figure out what those people were saying.
We just dug up that.
We just dug up that 13 year old queen, a sitting queen.
Go to her as a source.
Right.
That's a source.
Here she is.
Preserved bones and armor.
Yeah.
Thought it was a boy, didn't they?
Thought it was a man for years, didn't they?
They genetically proved it was a girl.
Yeah.
But for years, they just assumed, didn't they?
They just assumed as it was a male, you know, from the report,
yeah?
And then they were sanctioned to do the DNA analysis.
And that's come through, which was quite a surprise to them.
Why do you think they assumed it was a male?
I don't know.
They're probably the size or the, because it's the armor, the
arrows, you'd assume it's a masculine trait, wouldn't you?
The hunter, traditional hunter, I'm guessing.
I think she's got one bone, bone-headed arrow in the
rest of the bronze, bronze-tipped arrows.
Very interesting.
Very interesting.
I wish there was a better means of getting to that source,
because you're like on ancient origins and different various
websites that are just giving you like a rundown.
There's nothing.
I'd appreciate something like you can get into it, into the
details, what the analysis is.
I've seen some things like that where they've said, and she
had blue eyes and red hair, and I'm thinking, how do you know
that?
How do you figure that out?
I've no idea how they go about figuring something like that out.
No idea.
That's what they come out with.
We still don't know yet.
There's still a lot of analysis that can be done on arrow
heads.
You know, George won't get in there.
Can I have the test done on arrow heads for this
chemical, this compound, and see what we can get out of it,
because I do it once.
Wouldn't that be like the sinker?
Okay.
Right.
That's apparently how rock was vindicated was from those
containers of the communion, of the cacan, right?
Yeah.
Fantastic.
It would be nice to get that vindication and get that
conclusive proof.
Yeah, they were using arrow poisons.
I mean, you've got it documented.
It's quite clear.
It's quite clear.
It's quite clear from listening to that documentary from
Mary Baird that there's marketplaces selling poisons and
venoms, and it's quite clear.
That is, it's so accessible and people are using it left,
right, and center.
Then it isn't some black market thing, is it?
You're going down the market and buying these things, and
you're getting these things made by various ingredients put
together, and that takes a skill.
That isn't a skill in emperor.
That isn't a skill anybody around him has.
That's a skill that's developed over time, I guess, isn't
it?
Yes, and that's one of the things.
That's one of the groups that Mary missed.
She missed the root cutters.
And those are women, you know, described as sorceresses, right,
who are involved in the drugs.
They're called polypharmacone, right?
They have much drug knowledge.
Those root cutters are women.
Euripides mother was a root cutter, right?
Not her.
Wait a minute.
I thought Euripides mother stayed in her house all the time.
Right?
No, she was a root cutter, right?
Well, what's a root cutter?
And then all of a sudden you have a conversation for a
sophomore in high school, right?
A girl in high school.
She should hear this.
She should know what root cutters are if she wants to
learn about ancient women.
And go to Mary and Mary can tell her, don't worry about that.
They all stayed in their homes and it feels so much better for
us to righteously stand up and say, oh, look, how bad these
people were, these oppressors, to create this fairy tale.
But the actual truth of the matter, the reality is always
more interesting.
I'd love to see a book written on the root cutters.
I know Mary's not going to write a book on the root cutters,
right?
But she's into drama and we know that Sophocles has a play
called The Root Cutters.
So maybe she'll get on it.
I don't know.
Probably not.
I'm being, I'm being.
It's too busy writing books about how much of a productive,
successful mother she is carrying to, you know, look at me.
It's too much of that rather than look at where we've, look at
our roots, look at where we've come from and where we can ascribe
power to, about our importance in society.
Now it's like, look at me.
I can carry around a couple of children and do a degree.
You know, how many honoree degree, what's an honoree degree?
Yeah.
How many honoree degrees she's got from different universities?
Scary.
What is an honoree degree?
Well, she's just done nothing and they just give you the paper
work and say, yeah, you've got a degree in this university now.
Loads of universities have given her an honorary degree.
I wonder what the, what do you think the cost of an honorary
degree is?
There's something transferring there.
There's some kind of, yeah.
How many do you possibly need?
Cause it's a list.
You know, it's just go on a Wikipedia.
It's very simple.
It might be a bunch of lies, but it's doubted, but it's a bunch of,
it's a big list.
And she's a Dame, she's a Dame as well.
So that's that.
That's pretty much an OBE.
That's, that's an order of the British Empire.
That's equivalent to being a knight.
That is, that's a knighthood, essentially.
Good.
I'm glad, I'm glad I said that.
I'm glad I said that.
Knighthood.
That's the best that the British have to offer the world.
Is it not?
The knighthood.
Yeah.
I think there's one above that, you know, I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know all the, I know it happens twice a year.
There's a list that gets constructed twice a year.
And the undotes, these OBEs and honors to all sorts of people.
The wheel, David.
Yeah.
And that's why we should believe Mary and not the guy,
not the guy with the shaved head, right?
With, in the satanic initiation.
Don't, right?
She has the accolades.
She has everything there.
I mean, don't get me wrong.
I got accolades too, bro.
But, but they're, but they're not, they don't stand up to the
official steel seal.
And with such misinformation, with such a rate of history,
because that's what she's doing in those two comments.
That's what she's doing.
She's raping history.
Right.
She's creating something that's not, she's forcing something on
history that is not there.
Yeah.
It's not qualification shouldn't carry that information should
is, shouldn't carry that information and bolster it and
support it with, oh, and I'm this, by the way, you can't,
you don't contend what I'm saying because I'm a dame.
I've achieved these awards and gone through these certain,
and it's just like, yeah, well, why?
Why can't we just look at the sources?
Why can't you be just equal to the next person?
And then we can evaluate the sources as equals and get
your own impressions from it.
That's what you'd try to facilitate, isn't it?
Yeah.
Tell the audience, tell the audience this, Rob.
Tell me if you think this is correct or way off.
It's not the people that have the accolades who carry the reality.
It's the people that they burn first and then set up to set
statues monuments up to later, right?
Yeah, I think, I think that's very accurate.
Yeah.
We'll end on that high note.
Rob, thank you for coming and representing the island.
Thank you.
Your people, your people are geniuses and I want,
I want you to maintain those traditions so that we can be
proud.
We can be proud.
Thank you, Rob.
Thank you.
Thank you very much.
Thanks for the comments, everybody.
And good night.
Good night.
Hail Satan, guys.
