to Lady Babylon. Thank you for joining us tonight. We're in for a real treat. We have
a special guest star. Everybody please welcome Antichrist. We're going to meet him for the
first time. Yes, fantastic. And we will be looking at some questions. We have a real
special thing tonight. I'm going to press ahead with the translation of the formula
of the cup. The cup. Whose cup? Christ's cup.
So people were telling me they were especially interested in kind of plumbing the depths
of the hardcore pharmacology. They want to know about this cult operation. They want
to know what it's doing. People told me they liked the presentation that was my translation
of Revelation 17. Yes, using the orphic terms. So it's a translation for those ears to hear
using auto kerns, Vox Orphica. Yes, so people like that. So I'm going to bring you something
very similar tonight to meet your tastes. And it's time for us to meet the Antichrist.
I'm going to do is go ahead and put the text up. We've all seen the Andromachus text. This
is Nero's just by way of reminder. This is Nero's arch doctor, arch physician. And he
is in the midst of bringing this formula back this him. Yes, this cult ritual. Nero wants
this stuff. Yes. So we're going to look at the beginning of the translation, starting
and ending at the same point, the Christ and the Antichrist. And I want you to realize
that I'm choosing my words very carefully, because the Christ and Antichrist are the
dote and antidote within the mystery. So when Jesus is saying that he is that, he is not
pulling it out of thin air. Where does it come from? Where does this term come from?
I tell everybody, no room for guessing here. We don't want any sort of ideas or general
theories or, you know, we're not here to develop theory. Yeah, we're here to bring you the
evidence. So let's look at the evidence from this preserved in this Nero to see what they're
doing at the time or what the cults are like. So I just flashed the Greek up you up to you.
I'm going to read the translation that I call the goddess called calm from the communion of
vipers. And I am using the title that is given with the text. So here is the text itself. I want
to read you from the Christ to the Antichrist. And of course, realize that this Christ, what is
Christ at its basis, just realistically and rationally and, and actuality. What is the
actuality of Christ is the one who has been stung by the gadfly. Creo in its oldest form means
the one who's stung by the gadfly. The one what's that word for gadfly? It's oyster. Right. The one
who has the oysters, right? You and I would say estrus. Yeah, the one who has that. There is an
antidote of calming that we call galene. That just means the calm sea waves, the calm storm. The
idea is you think of the immediate time post storm when it's silent and the waves are flat.
It's that time. It's the galene. You know, half these people are on ships and are into trading. So
you can't, you can't fault them for the terminology. And to know that gives us a clue about what the
words actually mean and how to translate them. So we're learning a lot of context here as we go.
Oh, lovely. The goddess called calm from the communion of vipers. Hear me, Caesar, and know the
compounded anti Christ. Give her of unconquerable freedom. Hear me, Nero. Her name is Hilaria
galene, good goddess. Hilaria galene, good goddess. Know for a fact that she does not
shun the dark harbor. She has no concern for danger. When someone has overmeasured the hated
opium and placed their greedy lips over gloom inducing wine cup. Nor does she who calms the
storm turn away from the mortal whose cup is full of aconite hemlock or the communion of
chilling nightshade. She fails not to come as anti Christ to the yellow dye of Medea's
communion, the so called bringer of sorry, bringer of premature death. She comes to assist the use of
the blistering beetle who pushes the blood. She comes to the initiate struck with the viper
venom of echidna darkness bringer. Nor does calm lose her composure in the presence of the horned
serpent, the pain inducer. Galenae pacifies the dry, viperine thirst bringer. The venom of the
scorpion is not protected from her. Not even the ASP herself, the communion that possesses the venom of
the most powerful necromancers. Nor does Galenae bend the knee to the feared oak die. Nor with her
present does the initiate remain under the influence of the death state. Nor does the oaken
bleeder when overcome with one of their bloodletting potions despair. Never when good goddess is
present. With Galenae, the hated venom of spiders are unable to injure a man. She puts off the
shivering burden of pains. Nor does rock navigating Hydra, the sea snake, burn. The first ruler and
path are of the warm salt sea. Meeting the amphibious snake would not bring the limits of
sweet life. The lips of Syrian women sprinkled with death. The one relying on Galenae rejoices in the
moist flowers of summer. Oh Caesar, whoever walks the Libyan seashore cares not for the danger.
Nor does the serpent who goes forward and backward bring doom. And neither does the toad that pastures
on the dry plain. With her, with Galenae, one would easily find the cure for a bloated stomach
and heal the short panting asthma. Whenever the spirit within rolls around the stomach,
swelling with pregnancy and forces the bitter pain of birth. When the guts swell in an unpleasant
whirling. When someone should have an inflammation of the sting of the beautiful gadfly. She's there
to help when the entire frame of flesh is bilious standing out with prominence. I'm going to stop
there so that we can catch up with what is going on. This is the beginning of the hymn.
And what we are doing is we are hymning the antichrist. We are hymning the concoction
that we will consume. Yeah, or that will be administered to us. I should say is technically
because sometimes they're putting it in the eyes. Right. So that's not consumption. And certainly
of the rectum is not consumption. But this is that compound derived from the cup.
They have this special word for those of you who didn't pick it up. There's a special word in
ancient Greek that you saw from my translation that is the drug that causes the death state.
So they actually think about that for a minute. They actually are sitting around
and have developed a drug compound that they can administer and put somebody into a death state.
Yeah. Yeah. So a couple of things I want to point out. We're talking about that antichrist and her
name is given in three different ways. Hilaria. Yeah. Hilaria. Galenae. Yes. Good goddess.
Hilaria. Galenae. Good goddess. And those of you who know about Roman Greek religion will
talk about the Hilaria and what it is. Yeah. So these are not these these are native Greek terms.
This is strongly ethnically Greek. This is as Greek call for a core center.
The language makes that clear. These little couplets that are the poetry are written in a way
that betrays a familiarity with the form of hymns produced in what we call the Orphic hymns.
So yes. Yes. Yes. And it will have more Hapox Legomina words that are only found in one place
than any other text besides Hesechius in order to understand the vocabulary of this very special hymn
that we're reading this antichrist in order to understand it. We have to go to the ancient
lexicographers like the Victorians did. And we have to say what does Hesechius say about this
really really rare word. Right. Because you know we can't define it if we see it just once. You
really you can't. The only way is to go back and say well what are the ancient lexicographers
saying. Hopefully they said something about it and about its roots. And and yes. Guess what they do.
So a lot of this is there in this text. You are getting the most rare file
of ancient mystery cult. You're getting the rarefied air of it with these. I mean you are hearing the hymn.
You're listening to the invocations. You are feeling the formula as it's coming out. So I
just want to make a couple of comments about that may stand out. This potion of Medea this communion
of Medea that we talk about this Medic communion
is from a vessel as sure as being from a vessel. All right. So from a the
Medea or the Medua or the Medea is that cup. She is the one who brings that communion to you.
Now if you are in a mystery right if you're one of the initiated you have shaved your head.
You have entered into the morning
and you've done all the fasting and all the you know particular drug regimen that you're supposed
to be doing right depending on whatever the locality was wherever it was you know the plants that are
used there in those locations. Okay. So yeah notice by the way too the wonderful variety of plants
that we're dealing with that the glane is the glane is a remember the glane is an antidote right
and so he is the glane is actually going to be used for the person who is put into that death
state. If you don't have the glane on board you're not coming out you're not coming out of the death
state. That's all part of the death and resurrection cult that we are in. All right. We're opening
you up bringing you into the reality so that you may be born again. The way you don't see it but
the way is embedded in this poem. Yeah it's embedded the way. Fantastic. So there's a couple
points I want to make. The potion is the cup and that cup is that cup of pornea that we're using
right. It's coming from her dark harbor and remember that dark harbor the word for harbour
there is the word for vagina. Yes yes mm-hmm the yes the flowers that are in and when I say yeah
the flowers that are there that we pictured those flowers are the vagina right the Victorians
even knew that and wrote it down right that's where we get our knowledge of it right. Wait a
minute this is the word that they're using for the labia. Yes right exactly so it's joined there
the pornea is part of it. Remember Jehovah is a misogynist extraordinaire right there's a reason
that we have to kick out that Lady Babylon right yeah there's a reason it she works she is the cup
that brings us the communion yes and with the combination of her Christ and her Antichrist
you can perform this right which will enable you to wake up to the reality you go somewhere
and you'll come back you'll be horrified you'll be amazed you'll be stupefied life changing
you quit your drinking you know you swear off your gambling you know right right and you begin to
live a life of the way right right yes the life of the way it's embedded in the Greek that I just
read you it's embedded in that Greek I want to make a couple of points with our last 10 minutes
here I want I want you to notice that and by the way the dark harbor is associated with specific
divinities specific divinities so we have to be careful there right look at what they're using
opium okay nobody's surprised they're using opium there's Virgil tells us how to grow opium
you know so opium opium opium it's everywhere they're mixing it in everything right so what do
you think they get their concepts of stupor from right there's this state that you can enter into
when you're you know chasing the dragon if you will uh you enter a state of yes um I have one
victorian to find it as a sullen a state of being sullen um yes perhaps that was his opinion
he probably was chasing the dragon though so maybe he knows anyway um we have opium and we have uh
the oh and notice that he said the opium is over the wine cup right because you what do you do is
you take little lozenges of goodies and you dissolve those in your wine right and you get like a
you know you get a a cup a poma uh what they would call in the middle age is a potion right
yes lovely you see the reality it's it's gorgeous it's gorgeous um she fails not to come as
antichrist to the yellow dye so for those of you who are talking about the dyes the dyes um I think
deon was talking about the dyes and somebody sent in the manuscripts for uh the papyri on the dye
making you know the dye making and what you know we're looking at whether or not this those dyes
were psychotropic well they're using them not only to dye things with but get this right the world
is not what you think don't impress your world on it right these dyers are the ones that were
getting the religious cult through you say what yes why do you think there are baptists right
right back to baptize something is to diet yes so they're making these and apparently
there is one that they use in in uh in the performance of according to this in the performances
at dodona which is one of the great you know people will argue it's the oldest greek oracle
you know it's it's the prophecy of zeus how zeus able to prophesy with this cup the oracle becomes
she who knows what is what was and what will be did you ever wonder why they were talking walking
around talking about the christ being that one yes now you understand the alpha and the omega
right that's the that's the power of the christ yeah the oistramania
um yeah and there and johova is always an enemy of that feminine produced
source you can you can step out and say this god has an issue with the production of this
right and what it means i'm sure because we know the jewish sible um um exists because
somebody stood up and said look at all this misogyny right what is all this misogyny doing
right good for the jewish sible good for her it was one of them they stood up you know it was
somebody at dinner one night and they were like wait a minute they were looking around they're
like wait a minute i'm in a world that is controlled by a force that hates women that truly has a
problem with women yeah and all of a sudden we're back in birth did you notice to him comes back
to the birth right with that fetus yeah gorgeous we're going to burn off our immortality here
right we have to have the antichrist to do that we have to um yeah a couple more points i want to
say um uh she comes to assist the use of blister beetle so you're getting some more drugs that
are involved that she is balancing um and they know that the blister beetle pushes the blood they
know what happens what causes erection they're not the their uh doctors are not that in the in the
dark um yeah the viprovenum of a kidney darkness bringer now we're getting into some specific
types of drugs there are some other echidnai who are using the this thing that puts you into darkness
um like a mist yeah there was a mist over his eyes yes now you know right he's just getting
rid of his demons he's exercising his demons right it's a bachic purification yeah fantastic stuff
um gelene pacifies the dry viparine um thirst bringer that's the dipsass right snake the one
that brings the thirst and i want to ask you did you notice how many serpents were involved here
did you notice how many different venoms and did you notice it's um within balancing the
doubt and the antidote that they're they're revealing their own cult um he says look there are
these these goace these old necromancers right that that are involved in um this drug that is um the
asp the asp which their asp it looks like you know it's take it for what it is identification wise
but it has been identified traditionally as the egyptian cobra as the egyptian cobra so
apparently he says the most undisputed magicians right they are using the egyptian cobra
yeah and gelene is so strong she neutralizes even that
yeah this is amazing if we could trace back the genetics because remember it's a woman
who is producing this stuff right you thought the purple trade was psychedelic and expensive
yeah imagine this and now you know why people are sailing around trying to kidnap her
right and there's a line of them and herontosis herontosis opens up with their kidnappings
and the oracles this is everything this is the foundation this is the foundation of the western
world you know and it's christ and antichrist it is dot and antidote these are drugs drugs of
communion produced by the human body let me just make a couple last points um we talked about venomous
spiders and the scorpion they're using those the very famous greek guy was able to urinate those
no ejaculate yeah my nose right ejaculated yeah the venom of the scorpion and this one of the snakes
actually i think it was snakes plural yeah a combo a polo pharmacone that you can only get
from his ejaculation right and it's so bad that he was killing the women that he was having intercourse
with isn't that something ejaculating so if you're stuck in the fairy tale you know like when they
say biblical history or bible times whenever somebody says bible times you realize that's
fairy tale world right so if you want to understand what they're actually doing with these with these
drugs look at um looking at it from a very basic level right and the the religious drugs allow
you to do that right because they're putting somebody into a death state and bringing them out
of it right for a reason so they can be born again right and you can have the vision rip open the
reality right um gelani rejoices in the moist flowers of summertime and in that place the word
specifically points to vaginas right and so again the cop because we're talking about the poma
the medic poma the medic thing that we um is our communion is our communion um yeah and then we get to
the birth ending off with the oistress right they call beautiful they call beautiful why because
they're using the oistress in the in the birthing process it's an eos it's a it's a poison that um
numbs pain and facilitates birth and that's why you get kicked out of the garden you
you disgusting women that i'm speaking like joeba right that's why you have to leave the garden
it wasn't because um um it wasn't because uh you would uh you know you wouldn't be able to find a
better place condo somewhere maybe well a piece of strip land it wasn't because of that it was
because you would lose access to the drug that allowed you to enter into that painless state of
birth um which people say is that natural is that natural yeah because what was there was from what
was in the garden those were the drugs that she was using in order to do that um you know this is
fantastic i want to i want to transition and talk to um darin here for just a second um about
he said something earlier today hey darin it's good to see you um you said something earlier today
and i know this is not your expertise but you're just reaching out there and you're getting
information you know we're looking for civians um in armor you know what i mean we're uh we're
looking for some kind of warrior not necessarily heavy armor but something you'd wear on a horse
you know and you could be comfortable in while you're collecting your herbs and i'm looking for a
six foot i'm looking for a 12 year old six foot 12 ish 13 somewhere in the chorus stage um yeah and
i hear that they these may be out there um you feel pretty good about that um yeah i feel pretty
good about that so um there's a couple articles i'll post them in discord again but i already posted
them but they found in northern or well northern mongolia southern russia tuva region they found
remains of a civian woman 13 years old decked out in amazonian gear and very large so i think
you know we have our evidence there fantastic fantastic now you you have been uh working
on the discord a lot and so you're feeling a lot of questions and you've given me several
topics to talk about is there anything in general that people seem to be really interested in that
i may be able to address no promises but maybe so right now two of the big fields that are really
interesting is uh i was we've been going down this rabbit hole about the african connection in
libya and in north africa specifically deon has been bringing up the taric people who have a blue
indigo die they raise snakes and they uh you know they also uh you are doing a bunch of these kind
of rituals so we're wondering if maybe there's a connection here to uh lady babalon in in that whole
thing yeah i think the best connection there is um the fact that libya you know is not only the home
center of this great oracle you know um but i mean that's why you go in antiquity to libya right
you go into the oracle of amon right and and so um is there an association in libya with the drugs
yes particularly with the the serpents you're crazy right um so yeah and the drugs and there's
this famous drug that doesn't grow anymore that nobody can find anymore that's supposed to be
really good for you um right um yeah so um uh and who do we know immigrated from libya through
egypt and up into georgia um to be with um you know the sythians that she became such a
such a proponent of their culture and um yeah yeah i think it's all it's coming through libya
isn't it that's where this lamea is from right that's where the athena is from right so um the
minerva the minerva yeah i love it man it what else what else is out there the other big thing
we're we've been all been searching for is this snake woman the virgin blinded snake woman that
you've been referencing and i know that rech has been looking into this with the melocene and then
i've been looking into this on the indian side and i found connection with the scottis menassa
and uh yeah i think we're finding this figure so i want you to elaborate more what is the purpose
of the the the virgin snake woman and what is this connection here
yeah and why did you get his dirty little hands on on on her as well yeah he had to he couldn't
miss her she's all over the place right even herodotus and 491 and somebody may have posted that
on the discord um but um her herodotus talks about her right and who is this who is this person who
is the half virgin half uh viper um half serpent right and i think what um you know hercules is
doing his thing you know spreading his spreading his worship and his cult and his you know doing
his aero thing he's got his aero toxins from the from the uh centaur that he was you know ultimately
he kills the guy but um from the centaur um that was teaching him and he's spreading that knowledge
right and he's associated indirectly with medea he tries to go on a mission to help her but um
instead the it wasn't to help her it was to kidnap her but instead his little uh boy gets lost he
has a young boy with him and everybody's like okay this is those greeks you know this this is the way
of the of antique no it's not there's a very specific reason he has a boy with them and then
he's involved in a boy cult right get your head out of the story and get it down to the actuality
about why they're writing about these things right so um he's he's he's going around with his cult and
now i've come a little bit of a field of what the question was help refocus me yeah we're just trying
to find this snake virgin right yeah yeah yeah who is this snake virgin snake virgin he does find
the snake virgin right and he finds her in a cave yeah he finds her in a cave right so this is
heronitis this is odd we know that her hercules or heracles was all over the place right we have
shrines to him all over the place he's a big deal he's one of fathers of different um uh peoples
in Greece right and spread all through the Mediterranean as far as the as far as Spain
so um yeah so um he he meets up with her right and um notice that whenever he gets to the oracle
he's always killing the one who guards her yeah he's always killing the one who guards the trees
right where in which is the fruit yeah you see it's the same machine over and over the the girl
who is half viper half girl is merely the one who is preserving that song she is the oracle
she is that one who can come strangle you right as the sphinx she can come strangle you
i wish people could see that we could bring back the image of her on the horse with the hair
and the poison and the arrows that can turn you to stone you can wake up you can just be some
kid on a farm and you can you can get hunted and wake up in a sexual right that involves the
burning off of your flesh you can be made into the dragon you can be blinded in the process
these are actual things that are going on this is not fairy tale world they did not sit around the
Greece did not sit around and say hmm i wonder how i can create an interesting story from beginning
to end no they took all everything they've been hearing passed down verbally about the great
Heracles and while he stopped here in this place and he did this he stole these cattle and then
something happened he had to go here and he killed the he killed the oracles guardian
you know hydra's dead oh man right so anyway what else do we have going on one thing i want
us to talk about in address i kept getting all these questions surrounding the the resource the
literature that we all assembled and i think some people are coming in late or they missed some of
things but i want us to address what we're searching for as we dig through all of this later
literature that seemingly passed the greek era you know like i want us to talk about the orphic
vox and what is connecting you know lord byron and this uh you know bocaccio and all of these
characters and all this different literature that you've recommended us and what are people
actually searching for like what is what is the point of going to these places and finding this
orphic box here yeah yeah excellent excellent what's the purpose of all of that right um first
when you build a city the very first thing you must do is build a temple to the muses it's the
very first thing that ai if you will as you and i were talking about earlier that ai can only come
when that is accumulated that real intelligence right behind the artificial intelligence that
real intelligence is a quantum phenomenon
so in order for you in order for you to create a society um and i'm not just talking about a
city or government united states or this government in order for you to create a society you must
purify the area for the muse she has to be present and i think that's that's what each of these
sources that you're looking at that's what they are all following that's why they have ears to hear
and it's why guys like byron can use orphic images right as if they were a native speaker
as if they were a native listener that they could hear these terms when jesus walks around saying
this is only for those with ears to hear right you can be talking to a hundred people and there's
two or three in the crowd who are in and he can address those two and everybody else can be like
huh what did he say what what right and people explain it modern-day pastors explain it by saying
oh this is a way he's using an example he's like this great teacher in parables no no no you don't
understand when you are creating um words sentences ideas thoughts when you're expressing
logore that have a double meaning where you only were only one per a receiver can receive that
you're not giving it to the kitties you're not like this is not sunday morning bible study right
this is seclusion this is seclusion this is excluding not including that's what the ears
to hear does it excludes those who are not initiated who do not have life they can't breathe
there you know if you if you wanted i could have given you so much right yeah amazing yeah beautiful
now you're going to appear you're going to appear uh uh coming up on the gnostic informant so i just
want people to um uh to support you in that and to support um uh yeah to support one who has had
his demon cast out we have to be um if we're able to purify and we're able to cast out somebody's
devil right we're able to cast them out of that person then that person deserves to be
to have the chance to shave their head into morning and be with us and walk the way right
um so yeah um gnostic informant will also be honoring um honoring uh uh dr carl ruck
and he would like to talk about um censorship and difficulties within academia um because he
knows as as he told me which i don't think that he would have a problem with me sharing with you
that um he realizes that those forces that were he was he had absorbed and was channeling that
are contrary to uh what the initiation is what the satanic initiation is he knows that those forces
were um were exercised and he knows that those are what bring us to a place where we block out um
we block it we we accept ultimately uh the lie that is around us right when we embrace it so um
darin will be a gnostic informant i will be a gnostic informant with dr carl ruck and um we
will do so embracing embracing the bachic purification right hail hail satan that's a
yeah hail satan yeah wonderful thing okay i will see you guys and um thank you for coming tonight
thank you for having me yes
um
