Hello everybody. Welcome. It's going to be a little huffing and I'm climbing some stairs
up the side of a relatively steep incline. There are strange features of English and I don't know
enough about other human languages to be certain, but it seems extremely likely
that the languages carry a payload. And we're not inclined to be aware of this or understand it
ordinarily unless
we have an unusual purpose or we are very passionately trying to understand it or
our curiosity is profound, right? Really want to know hidden things.
I've spoken of this before when I've said
that our experience of in-languaging smuggles something in. It smuggles in a bunch of weird games
and some of these are metaphors. Some of them are sayings, right? Figurative speech.
But they are also
invisibly powerful inclinations to think about identity meaning transactions and
relationships in very specific ways that have a lot to do with the historical development
of the language we speak.
A bunch of Verte China. It's kind of crazy. You find weird things along the street in San Francisco,
believe me. So, for example, there's an us versus them. There's a very strong us versus them,
what would I call it, principle that hovers almost tyrannically in the background
over modern English, particularly as it's spoken in the United States,
but probably something similar is going on elsewhere. There's a very us versus them-ist
feature of the underpinnings of the suppositions we acquire naturally by speaking our language
with other speakers who have also acquired them and communicate them these little figures of
speech, right? These almost cartoon ideas. It is as if they are actually sketched figures,
but in language. I wonder what today modern young people would think of the phrase Uncle Sam
wants you, but in my mind it flashes a kind of a red, white, and blue image of, you know,
Colonel Sanders' weirder brother pointing his index finger out of the frame of the poster
directly at me as if he actually sees me. And in English it's worse because, in a sense,
to be seen is to be seized by being seen, and to see is to seize. This is the kind of dangerous,
weird, pun-like understructure that we didn't invent most of us are unaware of. And
there are aspects of our cognition and psyche that are aware of them.
Making them conscious, well, in either way you're going to have trouble, but you'd probably rather
have the trouble with what you can see than have a lot of trouble around stuff you can't see.
You don't notice. You don't have the, the perspectival awareness of the kind to look
from a certain angle within yourself at how behavior is structured and so forth,
how language structures behavior. And there are many experts of different fields
who are profoundly aware of this in a way that is technical.
So languages bring with them payloads and the problem with ours
is that the payload isn't old enough or rich enough compared to a language that was spoken.
I mean, what is English? It's a bastard child of the speech of the United Kingdom or something.
In fact, we might even say that one of the weirdest things about English's payload is that
it kind of encourages megalomania, right? I can see a cartoon where
somebody's thinking carefully about the evolution of English
and discovers a leg of the history where kings are giving legal decrees and they're
they're declaring them and they're writing them. And you know, you can be the king too,
just speak, speak the language of the king, you know, and take the K off, right?
Kinglish becomes English. Like literally, it's as if her ancestors were saying,
it's kingish speaking. It's a language of local authority, declaration, separate persons.
It dispenses with timelines and relationships
as easily as a hitman loads his gun, right? This stuff in the wrong hands
is lethally dangerous and it comes to us from
histories that were profoundly fraught, conflicted,
acting sometimes amorally as if the words told them what to do.
This is a people captured by the authority of language. We are that people.
And if you look closely, you will see if you study how people think,
how they think about how they speak, how their behavior changes if you modulate
a couple of variables in the language, how under some circumstances ordinary people
will are capable of saying things so profound that you might only hear such an utterance once in
your lifetime and under other circumstances articulate people cower and begin to mumble
incoherently. It's not that we have language. That would be a really wonderful thing. Language
has us. That is not a wonderful thing. That is an insane thing. And I can hear
countervailing opinions. We use language coherently. It's helpful,
useful for memory, the organization of identities, databases in memory and complex
relations between features in memory that now have a new way of existing in memory that isn't
merely straight up nervous system, but includes some map making techniques.
And mostly these are around identity function or activity, identity activity,
and what you might call origin or clade, which class of thing, situation, being, relationship,
perspective, understanding, so forth. Categoring, categorical class
profusion is one of the problems we get. But the classes can be relatively simply stated.
It's an object or it's being. And if it's being, it may have
you know other properties such as what class is it, animal, vegetable,
mineral. Of course, mineral is not usually considered a being. For some reason,
the privilege of beingness is reserved for organisms in many of these tables.
That could be extremely problematical because it'd be a really
staggeringly important thing to get wrong if you were going to get something wrong.
To evict being from objects, if indeed there's something like a superposition over
intelligences that is involved with how objects are structured and why they persist and so on.
My point though is that the languages carry payloads in older languages.
They also have dangerous parts of the payload, but they have traditional
features that are very complex and rich. One would probably be endlessly edified.
I'm suspecting anyway from the profuse intelligences and playful perspectives one might find in
a conversation in Sanskrit among scholars of their language, history, philosophy.
There tend to be this clade of folks and they're all throughout the world, but in India the
Gurus are, many of them are quite profoundly learned. And we have quite profoundly learned
people over here see there's that us and them game, them and us. We have meaning Americans.
So some of the older languages, large parts of the payload that get imported as you become
language are much more complex and much less prone to the idea of the sovereignty of the
individual, which easily breeds war. If you're by yourself in the world you better be mighty tough
because any old thing can eat you up.
The suppositions of individuality, I mean it's very hard to understand if there were any
successful individuals historically. People who just became, you know,
somehow on their own, in many cases, it could easily be understood as a fate worse than death.
Why would anyone want to be alone? The only benefit of being alone,
well it's not true. I have to be careful. I'm actually, I've fallen under the sway of some of
the baggage in English that I'm trying to point out. See I too am subject to it.
But then there are also, so I think okay what are we going to do then? What's the,
there's the problem, what's the solution? I heard some women say today.
Well if we can teach each other we can easily discover the baggage together if we are looking for
it. And not in the sense of having a kind of a witch hunt either.
Yelling at the language, that's a dumb idea. We just would improve, you know, make better
linguistic choices and we'd probably modify intelligently, continually update the way we
relate with categories themselves and we'd realize the difference between the words we're
making in situations that we're using them in and for. We would teach each other to be aware
of some of this baggage. I think there's a book, this is Lakoff, one of the authors, maybe,
metaphors we live by or something like this. And that shows a little bit of the baggage but
just the metaphoric stuff. There's all kinds of other stuff, not just metaphoric figures
and not just rhetorical figures, little phrases that indicate ideas.
You know, let your enemy go first.
If there's a problem on the battlefield,
let someone else take the damage, which is another idea. We're a bit like pigeons in this sense,
right? We clump together in cities, which does provide some degree of protection of individuals,
quote-unquote, but also many new threats.
I think throughout the history of our people, you know, our species,
there were very few situations where individuals
were common, though there were unusual persons whose relationship with their
originating peoples became very unusual. There have always been those. There have always been
something that resembles a doctor, something that resembles a philosopher, something that resembles
a seer or a prophet, something that resembles a scout or a ranger, something that resembles
a knight, a kind of a blessed battle knight who takes on weird, difficult enemies. There've always
been these kinds of things, these kinds of roles and persons in human history, always. In fact,
if you go back very far, you're probably going to find that if you could just transport yourself
back to such a situation, as an unseen observer say, as an observer that having no effect,
the first problem you run into is someone would realize you are the seen one.
They can't see you, but somebody will realize that you're seeing them. Little girl, old woman,
you know, the unusual teenage boy who sees things and doesn't speak in the same vernacular.
You see, that's part of the payload of the language. It's vernacular. That's the word I was,
the concept I was looking for. It's part of the payload. It's not the whole thing.
There's a bunch of games about value and identity, how to evaluate, when to evaluate.
Again, you can see this problem where it's very, like English really is more like Kinglish.
I'm the god of the world. I can say whatever I want. I can do whatever I want. I have no,
there's no constraining web of conserved traditions, relationships,
heritages, lineages, families. That's all gone. You're on your own with a gun. I mean,
this is the proposition, right? You got a car.
I'm just remembering that, that crazy quote
from Wise Blood, I think it is, that was used so brilliantly in the beginning of Jesus built my
hot rod. How does it go? Man, I used to be able to do it with fervor. Is it even worth it if I can?
Where you come from is gone. Where you thought you're gone, weren't never there.
It goes on something about like, nobody with a good car needs to worry about nothing.
Right? And this is the spirit of the English we are taught. It's you are alone. You are by
yourself. You are an individual. You determine what is true, what is good, what is wrong,
what is evil, you know, locally yourself. You make all the decisions. You make all the evaluations.
Somehow you're supposed to be as intelligent as a group of seven people with 12 different kinds of
skills all by yourself. And the insecurity, the inward insecurity that this naturally generates,
this lack of one's inaction people, which is counterfeited in jobs and companies, right?
Right? This lack of approval, reassurance, cooperation, playful, you know,
leaping up the developmental ladders together while resolving important, like actually noble
missions that matter. This is built into our people and compromised by our culture.
We were not all born for the same thing, but we were not born to be isolates. There were
isolates occasionally. There were scouts who didn't live in the camp, right? They traveled with the
people maybe in a tribe, right? They would travel with them, but they were never there.
They were always out and they would come back and bring intelligence about, you know, the extended
terrain and what they saw and sensed in it. That kind of thing. And you can see that in a way
many humans try to do this. They're trying to do it. All humans have a deep relationship
with predicting the future. We pretend in our materialist worldview this is supposed to be
impossible. Life organisms on earth have been doing that since fucking cell number one.
There's nothing on earth that doesn't do that. And if someone asks me, well show me the physical
evidence, what I'm probably going to say is the blinders that you're currently wearing are so
thick that the evidence your own hand comprises evades you.
How will I show you anything? People who are determined to not see and not learn
and to, you know, sit on the kingly throne of their, the fact that they speak English and
maybe can do some math if they're lucky. In terms of the rest of the world, the hubris of that is
unimaginable. You know, there are fifth graders in Pakistan that can out teach our calculus
teachers in universities. We are not as a people well educated. And so you can see how
the English speakingness creates an inherent insecurity leads to an inherent insecurity
because we speak as if we are kings and queens and you'll hear
very confused humans on the internet saying things about like this. We are kings, we are
queens, we are goddesses, we are gods. It's not entirely that they're wrong, but that particular
way of holding onto it or broadcasting it has nothing to do, it's you're doing the opposite of
what you're saying. Cognitive and relational and behavioral sovereignty isn't all it's cracked up to
be when it leads to isolation and, you know, the sorts of despair that lead to people to
just play video games or just drink themselves silly and watch, you know, streaming shows or
whatever the lost, whatever the catastrophe of semi-vampiric consumption is.
And I'm not yelling at those people. The context we're living in is so, it's literally like a
vacuum of 20 of the things that we need every day just to be human together or even by ourselves.
And it doesn't mean we have to all be clumped together all the time either. It means we have
to have meaningful roles, relationships and dimensions of identity that we enact together
successfully for learning and mutual benefit. That one thing, that thing, we need that.
And some will say, well, I don't really, and I'll say, well, I hope you're not working or anything.
Well, I need money. Well, why do you need money? I mean, the conversation quickly travels into
an exploration of how we get set up to try to acquire an abstraction of relationships, value,
nourishment, healing, love, so forth.
I was thinking earlier that it's very peculiar if I say, for example, in English,
and I'm sure this is this part kind of this sort of weirdness is probably true in other languages.
If I say to you, I'm not going to talk to you about leverage or succession.
You can see that the speech act itself is doing the opposite of what it is saying.
And this is a kind of, this is a figure of speech. This is one of the forms of vernacular.
Similarly, if I say, truly, our next guest needs no introduction, what do you suppose is coming after
that? And so you would imagine that intelligent people would realize there's a problem with the
construct, but it's become traditional to employ a flawed construct in this particular case,
in the case of that specific figure of speech. So it is possible
if I were to try to say to you, you know, I really, really mean everything I'm saying.
It's not very helpful, but if I show you that I mean what I'm saying, if my passion is contagious,
if my curiosity is contagious, there won't be any use in me saying things about meaning things or
not. If you place a delicious meal before people, they will enjoy and consume it. If you keep talking
about how good the meal is, many of them will eventually depart. They won't even eat it.
And so this is another thing that English imports.
You know, Aryans, braggadocio, bragging, peacocking, which in case it isn't obvious,
you know, older peoples, they have some unique people, you know, language to language and
people to people. They have some unique recollection that part of what their languages import is a
tradition against certain kinds of speech. And moderns might say, oh yes, they're very superstitious
about speaking. No. Even though there may be features of that that aren't,
there may be some threads of that throughout the language. What's actually in there is intelligence
about the unexpected consequences of inelegant speech or hubris in speaking or arrogance in speaking.
Think of how many people you know who will think something resembling
if you really want something, if you want something that's really difficult to obtain or
very precious. Don't speak about it. Or you can imagine some teenagers driving, driving the car
downtown on a Friday night. It's all packed down there. There's no parking. And they're trying
to find a parking space, you know, and they almost get one, you know, something happens
where someone says something about like, I think we're going to get a space and the other two
freak out and say he jinxed us. And then a few moments later, a space that they were next in
line for gets taken, right? And they think, oh, it was the speaking was a problem. There are many
traditions about clumsy speech, inelegant speech. And by inelegant, I mean crude.
Surely, it should be obvious,
that the way we relate with language has a structural
effect on our imagination, our cognition, how we respond to ambiguity, what causes or
relaxes vigilance in us, all of these things. So,
you know, I never realized before tonight, many of the things that I have spoken around,
particularly the whole Kinglish thing.
And the irony and danger of speaking as if
one is the pinnacle of authority,
that the one from which all measurement comes, right? That is actually the kingly, queenly
power is to measure, to meet out. This is the power that is given to judges, in a sense,
in courtrooms, which is one of the weirdest caricatures of justice imaginable.
Though any reduction in humans torturing other humans makes me happy,
but transforming it so that it's not physically vicious to the degree it is emotionally and
relationally vicious, it's very strange. And by the way, you can see, it should be obvious, that
solitude and individuality, the namelessness in a prison experience is meant to be torture.
Of course, they take many freedoms away.
But it's funny, because by doing that,
they incline the prisoners to cooperation. Problem is, the prisoners have been scripted
to form and obey mostly malignant hierarchies, what are called cars in prison.
You have to pick one when you go in.
It's the worst boy network, mostly,
the people who are willing to act morally and with violence run the system.
It's an underworld inside our world, and that's a world made by English.
The payloads of other countries carry traditional ideas of filial virtue, communal unity,
mutual caretaking, respect for elders and children.
And often, there's some problematical authority that comes along with it,
respect for the provisional leader of the counterfeit country we grew up in.
I think the goal of our country was to be, was to resist counterfeiting,
in a sense, which is a very ironic mission to undertake.
Because, in the same way I said, if I say I'm not going to speak to you tonight
about leverage and succession,
right, once I announce leverage and succession, if I announce we will work together to ensure
that our country can't be counterfeited or stolen by bad ideas, people,
lethal games of language and concept, we will keep the light of human relational, communal,
and cognitive liberty alive together.
You know, four of the people signing the document are going to defect tomorrow.
There is so much money to be made, so much gold to be stolen so many lives,
to be converted to misery for the sake of tokens, numbers.
And we inherited these near term histories during our lifetimes, while English changed around us
to reflect the ever deeper counterfeiting
of virtue, verity, and vigilance.
And when I say virtue,
I mean
the accessible origins of that principle as they exist in our own hearts,
not some dictatorial list where we can check off the boxes.
I mean the real stuff.
And similarly, a verity,
a language that jump starts an amnesis,
the capacity of a language
to deliver a payload that's incredibly profound and also largely
missing the pathogens.
There must be languages
that have,
there are branches of every language that carry
noble and heroic payloads. There are branches.
Crucially,
without being surrounded by a milieu
of rich, creative, literary, philosophical, and scientific diversity,
and conversations, and debate, and exploration, and celebration, and literal heroism,
how will we remember what it means to be human together?
You know, I'm not saying it can't happen to you at church or at school
or in the Air Force or the Army.
You're going to get something in there and I know what it'll be,
but it'll be highly in service of counterfeit virtue and straight up lying
and straight up back-stabbing, back-dealing.
It almost doesn't even matter if there's a devil or not because the humans sure act like there is
one and there's a branch of us that's competing to enact it and that branch tends to hold power
because the altruists aren't particularly, you know,
they're not particularly sword and sorcery inclined. They're not warriors.
And once you involve warriors, it seems you involve many dangers for counterfeiting.
The problem though, it seems to me, I think it's very ironic and strange that I'm saying this,
is that, okay, your best few, your five best plays
are always going to be in the direction of establishing something so amazing
and human and intelligent that nobody wants to be left out.
And then making that thing self-dissolving
so that it has to be reformed from new principles fairly regularly
so that it doesn't become sclerotic and then you try not to conserve hierarchical power
in the structure of the systems, the teams, the families,
and so forth.
I wonder how far this street goes.
There's a way to create a self-dissolving structure that leaps ahead in its capacity
to perceive and resolve dangers.
And it can do the same thing creatively, technologically, scientifically,
but it can do it much better because if the recipients of advancements are trustworthy,
we can go a lot faster together.
Also, the problems our infrastructure, societal infrastructure faces are monumental
and the existing stuff, existing human electronic and physical infrastructure,
is delicate, outdated, prone to fall apart on its own.
If we're lucky enough that nobody intentionally takes it down.
So that stuff has to be remade.
Our own government was supposed to be remade regularly.
I think they thought 25 or more years per pulse, something like this maybe.
Kinglish.
Yes, it's weird.
The connotative structure of English serves the conceptual proposition of single persons.
Which that kind of inbreeding, the force of the inbreeding of a competitive perspective,
us and themism, should be obvious there.
You better be able to table a lot of power as an individual if you want safety or
you have to gather together with many others somehow and how then do you preserve your
individualness. You can. It's what are called business relationships. Another idea imported
along with the English we learn. Business relationships are not personal relationships.
And vice versa. Though, of course, at higher hierarchies, that's for the low hierarchies,
for the higher ones, they go together. You always have both, or you often have both.
You know, if you joined a monastery,
say, you decided you would study Zen or
Advaita Vedanta or Sufism.
You would begin a new way of relating with being human, a contemplative way in these cases, I think.
But also a educational transformation unless, you know, most of the people I knew, for example,
who studied Zen, had very large libraries and some of them had taught themselves Sanskrit.
Others had taught themselves Chinese. These are not easy tasks.
The Sanskrit is probably easier in some ways.
God, I hope the street goes somewhere useful. I think it's going way too far away from my house.
I've gone for a much longer walk than I had planned. So,
there are branches of study. You know, if you read through philosophy or if you study mathematics,
you essentially, what you're doing is you're recapitulating the history of mathematical
development in our species. It's the same thing with philosophy, the study of ancient languages.
What you are doing is you're having an intellectual an amnesis, you see, unforgettable.
And this is very profound. So, this is what I mean by there are branches in our culture
if your parents are artists and complex thinkers and creative or they are writers or poets or
musicians or all three, you will at least have a local example of a milieu in which discovery,
exploration, play, rediscovery, awe, wonder, enthusiasm, perhaps ecstasy or even visions
is not, these are common. You know, the garden has all the plants, right? You just
dunk her up with, we just grow beans around here, son, and we don't lack strangers
that you find all over the United States. Again, though, any community is a bit like
the topology of English. There's going to be artists and creatives and intellectuals and secret
agents, you know, hidden throughout the terrain. It'd be good if we had a signal whereby we could
easily recognize one another and authenticate our identities. That'd be fun. Or even a way of
signaling rather than a signal, right? A way of signaling that would evolve.
Good languages do this. I think, Kinglish weirdly is a slave language.
And there have been attempts to fix the problem before Esperanto might be one of them.
I don't know a lot about it, but we who speak it and write it and read it, presuming we can
much, would do well to understand some of the threat landscape of what English imports into
thought, semantics, and expectation. And at the same time forge new ways of referring
and playing in that field
that preserve our communality, our common concerns, interest identities, and so forth.
Where the actual hell am I?
What ridiculous street is this?
Okay, I get it. Kind of not. That's not Clarendon.
I think I walked to another city accidentally. This is so fucked.
Yeah, I walked way, way far away.
All right, so if I say to you, I'm not going to be speaking this evening to you about
succession or leverage, then you can see that I'm doing the opposite of what I am saying.
Another very strange modern common vernacular
that is ironic is something like,
before saying something, someone says to you, I'm not going to lie, I thought we were going
to the football field right on. As if they're doing you the unusual favor of not lying,
which is pretty strange. It's also become common, and I sometimes do it,
but to make a statement and then congratulate myself or pretend that you're correct congratulating me,
and you don't even have to go all the way. You can just go like, you can say part of it,
and people know what's going on. They know what time it is, and there's another
colloquialism in English, what time it is. It's funny when I was talking about them earlier,
I was trying to think of someone they just were not coming to my consciousness.
So there is, though, a way of doing the opposite of that.
So instead of doing the opposite of what I am claiming I am right now doing,
I'm not going to talk, I'm talking about, you know, SNL, L&S, whatever.
Does this street go somewhere useful? I am so fucking lost. Okay, I guess not.
I mean maybe, who knows, I can't fucking tell.
There I am speaking ungracefully.
Oh my, my, my. So if you imagine a bubble of many bubbles, and each of the bubbles are possible
choices or actions, thoughts or ideas, words, etc. So before I make a sentence,
I do have the opportunity to imagine any kind of sentence that can be said,
and to, they're from traverse what we might think of as a series of choices,
selections, negations, and so forth. We could think of it that way, probably isn't exactly that way.
But I could think of these possibilities and then I form the actual sentence or
sequence of sentences that I have just spoken to you now. So what I have done is I have told you
what I am doing while I am doing it, I have done what I am saying. It's the opposite of
doing the opposite of what I am saying. I will not speak of thus and such. It's very difficult in
English to try to evade the problems that arise in negation. I didn't do that. It's already too
much weirdness. It's very strange, all of this stuff.
What the hell is going on? There are street signs where there are no streets,
where the flapping slot am I? Okay, there's a street sign here for the sake of one house
or something. I don't know. This is nuts. Oh, I see. Okay, I see.
This is probably where I want to go. I don't fucking know. Let's try it.
So it is possible to do things that you are saying in English and there are certain kinds of speech
that actually allow you to accomplish a non-ordinary action by speaking very
intelligently about the potentials.
Right? About the, where does this go?
I have no idea where the fuck I am. I mean, it is so bizarre.
Oh, this is not where I want to go. Okay, I'm just lost.
There is a lot of detour around here.
It's interesting to be lost, but it's a little bit late at night for me. Okay, so
you know, language is a magical thing. It becomes an everyday thing.
Many humans have discovered
that it's not necessarily that there are magic words, quote unquote. Rather,
it is that there are magical ways of relating words and consciousness
that produce very unusual and totally unexpected results.
Okay, this is so funny. I'm going to have to backtrack. I basically almost did walk to another city.
This is fucked.
So when you think about the difference,
think about the difference in someone, in someone's ability to see
into identity possibilities, situations, problems,
in seven ways rather than three. So the other night I was in a conversation
and someone asked me essentially what happened to cause the humans
to go insane and become bad to each other in the world, at least at the group levels a lot,
and certainly in many of our cohorts. And I said, well, in the first story,
there was something that actually resembles evil and we couldn't keep
away from it. It was attractive, we grabbed some, we got it on us and it got inside us.
In the second story, we had intelligent parents and they went away.
There was an accident or something and they went away. And then in the space where
the intelligent beings had interacted directly with our minds, the shadow of their absence
terrified us and we acquired an inner shadow and it's like this.
In the third story, the onset of tool building causes a problem
in how we structure consciousness and makes us susceptible to
what I call thrips, which are sort of like
viral behavioral language, something like that.
In the next story, there are two primary colors, red and blue.
We once had wise relation with both of them, something in the structure of our minds changed.
We lost relation with them and the imbalance produced an absence in us
that could act as if it were a being.
And we struggle with this. Now, I could keep making stories or rather vignettes,
but what I want you to understand is we are trained to a very problematic form of consciousness
that I call one thing mind, one thing. That's just this, one thing mind.
But what we really want to have is like five thing mind. Five thing mind, not that.
One thing mind, kill yourself, run into wall, not good, blinding. And English imports
this one valued identification system. And we want to preserve that where it is useful
and surpass it in our use of the language so that we realize quickly. It's not just this,
it's not just that. One valued thinking. Unfortunately, there are people out there
who are like, I wonder what those UFOs are? Well, they're not one thing. They might not even be
a category of phenomena we have a placeholder for in our lexicon. What if they represent,
for example, the category, what if they represent, this will take me,
what if they represent the super category of identity, meaning of whatness and who-ness?
If they are the super category, they are not what or who. They are is, being, in, relation.
What you do, what you don't do, this changes who you are and who they are.
And this is intelligent. And this is actually how damn near everything actually is.
You know, Joe, most of the time, amazing guy, catch him on a bad day, not a lot of fun to be around,
threaten one of his children. The monster in Joe will certainly come out.
Unless Joe's like super wise, in which case he will liquidly transform and both resolve the
problem and not have to become a monster. So, identity. Now, if there's a position
above our categories, we should be familiar with that position. That is where our mind should dwell.
This is a structural feature of our very confused relationships with
semantic qualities and positions. Like, ordinarily, as English speakers, we inhabit a position
underneath the lexicon or at best co-equal with it. We should not only inhabit a position
above the lexicon, cognitively, relationally, in our awareness of the peculiarities of speaking
and thinking in words, writing and so forth. We should naturally draw each other up above
the lexicon and up above the semantics if anyone should begin to fall down into that.
Ancient peoples were quite good at this. They knew the danger of believing the language.
They knew the danger of falling beneath it and having it tell you
what you are, who to be, blah, blah, blah. And this isn't just a patriarchy problem.
This is a problem with the capacity to speak as an individual, as if you're individual. This
comes with that mess. It's not merely patriarchy. Though, you know, patriarchy and the suffering of
many other, many what? Many clades, many groups, many persons
is certainly part and parcel of the payload of English. Okay, is this the way I want to go?
This looks like it might be. Although, I really hope, oh fuck, where the flappity slot am I?
And which way do I have to go?
Okay, it looks like this way. That's my thought.
That says this is a dead end, though.
So, I don't know if Park 4 is small.
Let's see where I am here.
I sure hope I'm not going up that fucking mountainside. That is not going to work.
That stairway is crazy insane. We're talking about, yeah,
that shit loopy.
It would be like climbing up the side of a pyramid or something.
So, you can see that there's a position that is something like the un,
the unformed potential for categories themselves. In fact, the word category
refers to that space, right? It's not a category. It's the categories. And there's a position
above that, I think, which is before the kinds of distinction that would allow us to impose the
concept of category. We want to be familiar with the places above language and remain aware
as we descend into those, into the behaviors of speaking and writing and thought,
so that we retain a sort of what, like those old diver's lines, right? Before they had tanks,
they would lower guys in suits with air hoses, right? We need to retain a link to the upscale
before of language and to the human, the aspects of human intelligence above language.
The aspects of our own thought, feeling, not knowing, sensing, perspective that are above
language and then travel down into it intelligently from above. Then we will see many features that
are otherwise invisible to us. It gives us, it dimensionalizes the perspective in a variety of
new ways. And we, when we tell, if we make a metaphor or something, it's often better to
make two or three rather than one. And we should avoid the construct, it's just blah, blah, blah.
It's just this, it's just that. Except, you know, I'm not saying never, we should never use such
language, but it's very deceptive to the mind. Soon we think we know what everything is,
which is a huge problem because we don't really know what anything is at all. We have a bunch of
tokens that we paint on familiar phenomena. That's it. The name of the token doesn't tell you what
that is, doesn't tell you much. In fact, it's deceptively convenient. It reminds me of American
culture, deceptively convenient, hiding a bitter isolation, loneliness, lack of communal,
vast lack of communal organs.
It is a profound liberty to be able to forge
a complex cognition on, you know, within the manifold of our human experience. But it's also
very dangerous. It easily leads to unexpected and often invisible deprivations. And so there's
a vast terrain of impoverishments that many of us have suffered at the hands of the language we speak.
It behooves us to gently and intelligently recompose ourselves
beyond the confines to help each other to recover the kinds of liberty in our thought,
considerations, learning, and creativity that are natural to our people,
but largely prohibited and counterfeited by our common cultures.
This is my dream, and I hope we will pursue it together.
Thanks for joining me. Bye-bye for now.
