Hi, my name is Darren.
I'm the author of organelle.org where I write about topics that are translations of things
I learned during a nine month contact event with a non-human intelligence.
I'm not exactly sure what the nature of that intelligence was, sometimes I think of it
as an angel.
During our contact, it taught me many astonishing things that fundamentally altered the nature
of my own intelligence.
I'd like to share one of those things with you briefly.
It's a very, very powerful idea that I think has the capacity to radically alter human
intelligence and could change our world.
It has to do with how we count and with one of the most important appendages of our bodies,
the hand.
Now, one of the things that's interesting about the hand is that this is the part of
our own bodies that we see almost every time we act.
If we type or play an instrument, if we eat or pick something up, if we open or close
something, lock or unlock it, if we drive a car or motorcycle or bicycle, our hands are
constantly in front of us.
It's interesting to me that there's just mainly a single body part, although we sometimes
see other parts of ourselves, our feet or our forearms, that is constantly being presented
to our eyes and I think we've been overlooking something very important about this appendage
for a long time.
Let me see if I can share with you another way of understanding our hands.
This has to do with how we count and one of the reasons that this is important is that
we have this phrase in English that doesn't count.
It actually means that it's meaningless or we don't count it.
In fact, how we count our hands has a huge impact on the way that we count and understand
individuality, unity, distinction and sets and the way that we're taught to count, many
of us are taught to count on our hands and we are taught to count this as five.
That's the count for each of the individual appendages of the hand.
I'm going to call that the human count.
Now if you look carefully at my hand, you'll notice that there are sort of obvious lines
of division on the inside of my hand.
In this sense, the inside of the hand may be thought of as the side of separation.
If I turn the hand around, you'll see that although there are many sort of rough lines
all over the back of my hand, there are no obvious lines of distinction.
This side of the hand may be thought of as the side of unity.
Notice that you need both sides, distinction and unity, to have a hand at all.
These sides are not in conflict.
They both come together.
There's no other way to have them.
Now an animal might be understood to be a little bit more intelligent than a human
in counting the hand.
It would look first at the inside of the hand and would recognize a problem with the human
counting method.
The problem is, we do not count the most important thing.
The animal would like us to count the most important thing first for a number of reasons.
First, if we don't count the most important thing first, we may forget that it is important
or we may forget to count it at all, as has happened with most human cultures.
Secondly, counting the things in order of importance keeps their importance present
in our consciousness and awareness.
The most important thing about your hand is not your fingers.
It is the place where the members come together, the unifying body.
We do not count this.
We do not count the place the members come together or the palm.
The animal would count the palm first, so we count one for the palm, one for the thinking
member or thumb, and one for each of the working members or fingers.
The animal's count would be six.
Now an angel knows something that the animal does not, but it also remembers that it must
count the most important thing first.
For the angel, the most important thing is to count one for the unity of the hand first.
First your hand is one.
Then, the angel would turn it over to the side of distinctions and count one for the
unifying body, one for the thinking member or thumb, and one for each of the working
members.
By the way, I refer to this as the thinking member because it's really the appendage of
the hand that gives the hand, the human hand.
It's many of its most unique and powerful capacities.
The angel knows an even more important secret.
After counting one for the whole, one for the unifying body, one for the thinking member,
and one for each of the working members, that is seven.
By the way, one, two, three, four, five, six, seven holes in our head, not five, not six,
seven.
The angel would then add a plus to the count for the wrist.
The angel's count would be seven plus.
The wrist is really amazing because it leads across a gap to an astonishing set of extensions
to the hand.
Let me explain.
You, like your hand, have one unifying body.
Like your hand, you have one thinking member, and like your hand, it has two major sections,
neck and head.
Like your hand, you have one, two, three, four working members.
Like your hand, they each have one, two, three major sections.
In case the significance of this is lost on you, you are the hand of something.
Like your hand, you have a wrist that leads upscale to a more astonishing implementation
of the same paradigm.
We'll get to that in a moment.
If you were to see a hand sticking out of the ground and not know what it was, you would
never imagine that across the wrist lie senses so astonishing as eyes, the ability to smell,
the possibility of taste, kissing and speech, and the possibility of hearing.
Across this plus that comes after the angel's count of seven, lie impossible extensions
of sensing.
Now, the hand itself has astonishing capacities of feeling and manipulation, but across the
wrist lie a whole other set of domains of senses, and you are like your hand in this
way.
You have a second wrist and it is not physical because if it were, it would have more mass
than the entire universe.
Your second wrist is like the wrist of your hand in that, as you'll notice by looking
at mine, the wrist does not connect to the thinking member.
It connects to the unifying body.
Let me explain further.
In your gut, you have an older brain.
This brain contains its own kinds of neurons.
It also contains hyper structures of anciently evolved semiotic bacteria that can form relational
sensing networks on the fly.
Some of them may contain the capacity to sense magnetic fields, disturbances to those fields
and information within those fields.
There is between your gut and your brain a trunk of nerves, but 80% of the traffic on
that trunk goes from gut to brain, not from brain to gut.
Your second wrist connects you to a set of senses that are unlike anything ever hinted
at in human literature, fiction or imagination.
Across your second wrist lie forms of connectivity and sensing that similarly exceed the senses
that we are familiar with in the same way they exceed the senses of our own hand.
I hope that after listening to this, you may understand that it is important to count the
unity, to count the unifying body, to realize that we count the same way, the count of a
human is seven, and that you have a second wrist that you may be able to discover, activate
and explore across.
In case you think that this is only something that's instanced in the human, I could sketch
for you many other features of this same kind of relationship in almost every natural form.
For example, one of the most astonishing and useful forms to look at is a tree.
A leaf is a bit like a flattened version of a tree.
It has kind of a central trunk, it often has veins.
These are usually filled in with material because it's used as a receptor for sunlight.
But then of course it has a wrist, which we call the stem, and that wrist leads to a working
member, which we call a branch, and that branch leads to a unifying body.
Now, fascinatingly, half of the tree reaches upward and branches upward into the atmosphere,
towards space to receive sunlight and carbon dioxide and other chemistries, whereas the
other half of the tree branches downward, and instead of having leaves, it has hairs
and infinitely complex little bacteriological networks that surround the root system.
This is somewhat like our relationship with waking and sleeping.
During our waking parts of our lives, we are in the atmosphere.
We see the sky, the stars, excuse me, the sun, and we receive light and we see what is actually
apparent all around us in the world.
During our sleeping experience, we inhabit darkness and we dream, and we are down in
sort of the dark roots of mind and experience.
And so in this way, there's an analogy between the upper part of the tree and the lower part
of the tree and our waking experience and our sleeping experience.
There's a lot more that I could share with you about this, but I'm going to leave a lot
of that to your own discovery.
This has not come from a book.
You will not find this written anywhere.
This comes from direct experience of learning with a non-human intelligence who wanted to
show me something that was actually much more profound than this, that I was able to
encode by translating it into an examination of the most important appendages and forms
and relationships that the understandings that I was shown revealed to me.
I hope that you may enjoy it, and I would like to encourage you to teach others to count
the hand differently, particularly children, because if we learn to count the unifying
body and to count one for the whole and to understand that there's a connection between
those and an upscale representation, it will change the basic nature of our intelligence.
Additionally, I just want to point out that like the leaf, the hand is sort of a flattened
and utilitarian version of the same paradigm of which our body is an instance.
Similarly, across the wrist, there is an even more expanded similar paradigm that makes
our body seem very flat.
I hope that you will enjoy this idea and expand upon it and share it and explore it with those
that you love.
Bye.
