So I was just telling Chris that each of your pupils is surrounded by your enemies and your heroes
and people who are your friends and your helpers and the people who you're afraid of and that criticize you.
Kind of your right eye's iris is sort of the people who criticize you are on top,
the other ones on the bottom, they're kind of not too loud.
In other words, your encouragers are on the bottom on your right eye.
On the left eye, all the people who love you and encourage you are on the top, they're the bright ones,
they're the message you hear.
They protect you and look after you and the ones that can criticize you are also there,
but they're kind of on the bottom, they're in the shade.
So when your pupil's open because you're in love, that's because all of your ancestors and everyone,
even the critics, want to know more, right?
They all want to know more.
So you are the pupil in the center of that circle and you open wide and you let everybody in.
But if there's too much light, right?
If everyone around you is too bright and too big, you get shrunken.
Or if they're too critical, you might shrink down, just like that pupil in your eye.
And that pupil is also the donut hole that is the space that you act around and you use it to see.
So you don't see what your actions portend in terms of their purposes, but someone outside you can look into that hole.
And basically, they can read your mind and they can also read something of your soul.
And they can read something of your future and your past because you use all of that to see.
You use the donut hole around which you arrange your gestures and words.
So why you say something, why you do something, rather than what you said or what you did.
But why is the purpose?
The purpose is the pupil of your actions and that pupil you use it to see.
So you usually can't see it yourself.
Someone else from outside can help you see that hole.
That hole is actually like death.
It's a space you use it.
You need that space to let in light and intelligence in.
And that's the root of what I was telling Chris.
I'll pause there.
Thank you.
