Today is Thursday, December 5th. It's 326 a.m.
I don't really believe any of the things that I've heard about human nature.
In fact, I don't believe that anyone knows enough about human nature to speak intelligently about it.
Certainly not in the sense that we can say what it is.
The reason that's true is because most of what it is is by nature unspecified.
That is, we call it into existence an expression with a dance, a dance of relation.
And that dance can be intelligent or it can be something else.
We may not know exactly what intelligent dancing means, but like beauty, we know when we see it.
And like the difference between what we can almost immediately realize as false beauty or a representation of beauty,
like the difference between that and something we immediately know intimately as divine or deeply, truly beautiful, we can recognize this difference too.
That is, we can recognize the difference between something alive and a representation, at least if we stop to do so.
Now, we live in a time and a milieu where most of the opportunities are not presented.
And the opportunities that are presented are dangerous and parasitic, predatory, abusive.
They masquerade as they are mimics.
And their goal is to produce sheep, literally.
The more sheep that can be produced, the better all of these frameworks that we build cultures around function.
The more effectively they function for their goals, which we think are our goals, but are not.
They are the goals of beings of a kind that don't actually exist. They're theoretical beings. They're our collectives.
They're not us. They don't. They're not the sum of our ideas, hope, dreams, needs.
There's something rather spooky. They are like a giant ghost made of exaggerated pictures or images or representations or tokens of ideas and language,
both of which are not inhabitable. They are toys of seeing at best. They're not laws or truth. Truth is alive or it's not.
Now, this might sound like a very philosophical conversation before I talk about the internet and how we relate with it.
Except that the internet and how we relate with it is deeply instructing the nature of human intelligence, our future.
It's also deeply instructing the nature and future of life on earth in ways that we are unprepared to examine so far.
And part of the reason we are unprepared is that our collectives, whether intentionally or not, whether by conspiracy or just by their actual nature,
when unguided by our intelligence and intention, when unguided by our wise and insightful agreement, our collectives become poisonous and toxic.
It's not very surprising our own teenagers and children will do the same things.
But if they had the power and hubris and resources of our collectives, the outcomes of even relatively minor misbehavior of our children or teens or even adults who misbehave,
would be much more catastrophic and possibly even world-threatening, which the behavior of our collectives is.
Now, the reason that I want to talk about this is simple. I'm very, very concerned with a single thing, intelligence.
And what it means and looks like, not only defining it, becoming it together right now in ways that we haven't been thinking about because we've never really had a chance to,
and also because the pressure of our cultures pushes us toward being sheep.
This is starting to change right now in our time, dramatically, all over the world.
But in other places, there's almost a reverse, well, there are a set of forces that oppose that change very directly because, for obvious reasons, they're threatened by it.
Not only is their current power threatened by it, their image in all of history is threatened by it,
because if mankind were to suddenly even take a minor step up in our relational intelligence, our ecological intelligence, our linguistic intelligence,
and how we relate with language and knowledge, and how we relate with technology,
we would look back on history suddenly and realize we'd been gravely and horribly mistaken and most of our many, many of our heroes would become villains.
And this is actually the problem when you've been incorrigibly stupid in a public and kind of prideful way for a long period of time,
much as our own nation has, and particularly now.
Well, the interesting problem here is that we have to have sort of invented the internet.
And as the birthplace of the internet, we have responsibilities, and we're not serving them well at all.
I'm going to demonstrate both how we are not, what the dangers of that are, and what some of the opportunities are.
I'm going to show you a set of visions that I think will help you to see and think about our relationships with language, knowledge, nature, social intelligence,
technology, information in the internet in a very different way, in a simple way.
There was a lot of words there, that was a big list I know, but it won't be that complex even though my talk will probably be long.
And I'm going to ask you to bear with me, and I'm going to apologize in advance.
I'm improvising, and although I've given these topics a great deal of thought, and I believe I have some insight on them,
I'm not pretending that I know what other forward thinking people have done or are thinking.
I only know some simple facts that I can demonstrate easily.
I'm going to try to do some of that right now.
So we are an unusual species, and one of the things that's unusual about us is we've developed the capacity to translate what would ordinarily be physical evolution
and also relational evolution, which includes our relation with nature, into technological evolution.
In other words, representations or functions.
So instead of undergoing this physical evolution that we might undergo, or the relational evolution, which includes intelligence,
we undergo technological evolution, and we can't see what is sacrificed in that process.
Generally, we're looking at a process of amputation and then replacement with tokens.
This would be like Paris the Thought, someone killing their child and then getting a doll of them and relating with the doll instead of the child
and thinking that that was actually better than the child.
Now this is what we do, in fact, with our minds.
And if you were to ever see the living thing that your and most people's minds is a doll of, I realize it's an incredibly arrogant thing to say.
I think you would be shocked to tears and laughter and possibly collapse.
And you'd also be very relieved to discover that within the doll that your mind had become, there was still a living, shining, astonishing, unthinkably intelligent, prodigious being that you were born as.
And our cultures are really trying to take that away from us and sell us things like jobs and classroom educations, dead environments, sophisticated machines, text messaging, and amputations.
We get the representation of the internet as becoming that.
I'm going to show you why I think that's a problem.
So the first thing is we haven't been examining this thing about our species that we inhibit our evolution in order to produce representations and technologies.
Cities, new kinds of cars, new kinds of computers, new kinds of communications technologies,
which each of which come out of having amputated something alive and created a sort of a chasm in our lives,
which we then bridge with this function, this technology, this job, this work, this political idea, this government, this prosecution, this courtroom.
Where we declare what things are in such a way that we must become those declarations and thereby die to our intelligence, die to our ecologies, our social relations, our filial relations with our families,
and even our internal relations with all the myriad faculties of our native intelligence.
Now the internet and computers are a huge part of this process in this moment.
And as the last parts of nature are being assassinated, and our last chance is to communicate with what the internet is an abstraction of, which actually is a forest.
An incredibly ancient, transcendent network of living beings that was easily interfaced with through a million different opportunities.
Now that that is disappearing, we're getting a representation of a kind of a library intelligence, and that's what the internet is.
We think it's sort of a library of information, but it isn't that.
Because in the same way that the forest wasn't a library of information, but a living network of up-to-the-moment intelligence sensing that can actually read the future
and reinterpret the past in ways that result in ongoing shocking leaps of evolutionarily expressed intelligence and relationally expressed prodigy.
Instead of that, we're getting a bookstore, the dead thing.
Now a bookstore is a wonderful thing in its own way, but the internet isn't a bookstore in the same way that the forest wasn't a bookstore.
The internet is an intelligent web of beings that together form an extension to your mind, and that extension has capacities that you cannot imagine in your wildest dreams.
And what's happening right now, because we're very naive and young and we can't see the future, we don't.
Most people do not use the internet this way.
Most people cannot use a forest this way either.
But there are many who can.
And there are people who use the internet this way.
And people who use things like Google or Facebook to gain experiences of insight and prodigy that are effectively impossible for other people to even get a taste of.
Because they've been made into sheep by the models and practices, the habits, and the way that we sort of encourage each other to use technology instead of the way that we invite or could invite each other to use.
Our intelligence, our relationships with language, knowledge, nature, each other, and technology.
I'm going to show you how backwards we are.
We're still thinking about the internet, like it's a library.
And we treat it that way, mostly.
We're now beginning to use it as a social interface, but primarily we think of it as a library or a bookstore.
And then also as a place to kind of leave our mark, like dogs, wandering around a park, making marks on trees.
That part's pretty interesting, and so is the library part, but it's grossly incomplete, and I'm going to show you why.
Now, internet time is different.
It's a different sort of rate of time.
The internet evolves at a different rate of speed because it has so many billions of users per day per minute than other forms of relational time or social time or even technological developmental time for products.
The internet develops at a fast rate of speed so that we might imagine that a year of internet time is worth, I don't know, maybe ten years of ordinary time.
I'm going to go deeply into that at the moment, but what I want to say is this.
Twenty years into the internet, we're using a flat browser, and no one's even commented on this.
I've seen some experiments with, you know, star chart, like two-dimensional things.
But why are we using a flat browser?
Why don't we drive through information?
Why, in fact, why every time we use the internet, do we kind of get dumber?
And our communications, well, there's a range, okay?
There's a spectrum, but the low end of the spectrum is growing dramatically, and the high end doesn't seem to be growing quite as dramatically.
So there seems to be a kind of intelligence sink where a lot of unintelligent behavior is extremely well-rewarded.
That's very dangerous.
In fact, behavior that doesn't lead toward greater intelligence is very well-rewarded, and that's very dangerous.
Now, again, there's a good spectrum, but the high end of that stuff, the behavior that calls us toward greater intelligence every time we interact with it,
and that is really exciting, is uncommon.
And here's part of the reason.
We've got the wrong idea about what the internet is and how to use it.
The internet isn't the encyclopedia Britannica.
The internet is new intelligence opportunities every time you touch it.
So we have to have a way to get smarter every time we touch our cell phone, if we're going to.
I don't have one, by the way. I never have. I study them. I have an iPod to study the phenomenon.
But I don't use a cell phone, and I never have, even though I'm a technology consultant.
And I've been working with technology like computers since they were invented in the 1980s,
and teaching people and watching their effects on people, my family, my own life.
So I'm very, very close to this phenomenon. I'm a programmer, not an expert, but I've been coding for many years.
And I'm going to just show you a couple of things about how we're using the internet that are completely backwards
and are inventing new kinds of sheep instead of inventing new kinds of humans, social,
and relational, intellectual, and ecological intelligence.
So we're using a flat browser 20 years into the internet, and no one's even really mentioned that fact.
And the way that we do it is we're using it like an index.
So Google builds this big index out of our activity, mostly, and a lot of web crawling, apparently.
And then we search that with keywords, and we link things together with keywords, and that's, you know, that's all right, I guess.
But the idea that we're using a flat browser and the way that we're using the internet, as if it were a dictionary, is wrong.
We should be using it as if it were our own minds, or as if it were an intelligence.
And that means we need both ways of doing that together and also applications that not only encourage that, they entice us into it every time we come near them.
So I want you to imagine a different kind of browser with me for a minute.
And what I'm going to show you would destroy Facebook utterly, and would destroy Google.
And before I say anything further about this, I want to say two things.
Those two companies are fleecing us madly, and they are not making us more intelligent.
What they are doing is reaping the benefits of our attentional intelligence and composing both forms of power, financial power, social power, ecological power.
And they're deploying those powers to keep us in a position of servitude and of being able to, you know, produce for them some more.
That's wrong. The data caches that Facebook and Google own, we build.
This is exactly, or this is actually much worse than if we were the Jews in Egypt building the pyramids, as is rumored to have happened, whether or not that's true.
This is a kind of theft, and the results, both first of all the form of which is absolutely unconscionable, and will destroy our intelligence if we allow it to proceed, because it must just to survive.
And it's also the results of it are unthinkably catastrophic in the future.
So we could never allow a corporation to have such power or to own the assets that we assemble this way under any circumstances.
We must absolutely take back the data caches of Facebook and Google for the sake of human intelligence, human social infrastructure and organization, liberation, human rights.
The same thing with the knowledge cache of Google. That's a cache we built, and there's no corporation that can own that.
It's like owning an aspect of our own minds.
So I'm going to show you a product that's going to help you to see why this is a problem by showing you what we do when we're actually using the web.
Now, I know a lot about how intelligence works because I study the brain and I study the mind.
And I also study language very deeply and poetics.
So part of my study of poetics and storytelling is metaphor.
And our minds work with metaphor in an astonishing way, but we're not using the web that way, and we have to.
And it's the difference between a flat method of looking for information and a multi-dimensional method that is almost musical and alive.
It is dynamic by nature.
We're using a dead, flat, tokenized way to chase information.
This is like looking up something in the index of a dictionary and then going to the page where that information is found and then reading that in a linear fashion.
That doesn't help us learn. It doesn't help us explore. It doesn't make it...
It's a little bit exciting. I agree that the Internet is wonderful, but it's flat and it's deadening.
And the way we're using it is making us ignorant and Google intelligent.
It's rewarding us for ignorance inducing behavior in places like Facebook and Twitter and creating incredible caches of social intelligence for corporations.
They're going to be leveraged against the dumber and dumber people produced by these processes in the future as things like GPS teach us to fail to do mapmaking in our own minds,
which builds new kinds of memory, which are crucial for new forms of intelligence.
So if we're going to interact with computers and machines all day, which we appear to be addicted to be doing,
we need to be doing that in such a fashion that every time we touch one of those machines, we are challenged and we are made smarter.
Our intelligence is not mechanical.
If it is remade in the image of the habits that we currently have with technology, we will become too unthinkably ignorant to discover the catastrophic results of that ignorance.
And we will ramify them socially, those results, socially, ecologically and relationally to ever more horrific outcomes.
We've got to avoid that. Our children depend on this. Our minds depend on it right now.
And we can use these technologies right now to accomplish incredible leaps overnight.
A technology like Facebook can change the nature of human intelligence in a week.
We're not using it that way yet because we don't understand how to.
It's not as if we're waiting for someone to tell us, although there are a few people who might be able to, or at least to help us to discover how to, if not to show us how.
And they can help us to do that by helping us to see what we're not seeing, which is part of what I'm hoping to do here now.
But many of these technologies could give us the capacity to not only reframe human intelligence overnight, but to radically alter and resolve unthinkable problems that we face currently.
And instead of that, we're using them like a public bulletin board. That's not going to work.
And in fact, by using them that way, we are supporting causes that oppose our well-being, that oppose human rights, that oppose the survival of our few remaining ecologies,
which are the basis of our minds, cultures, and health, the basis of our future.
If our bulletin board use is going to poison rivers, we have to stop.
And if we're going to do anything electronic socially, and the outcome of that is going to be working against us, then whatever we do with that technology has to be absolutely effective and powerful.
So right now, the million horses of the powers of our agreement, our intelligence, our human social intelligence, are bridled. They're in their stalls.
And every time they try to run, somebody pulls money out of them, instead of letting them run free and learning from every move they make, which is what I'm going to describe now.
So what we do now is we use a flat browser, which is ridiculous. We should be navigating through terrain that is dimensional, and the dimensions of that terrain would be metaphoric.
So that if you typed in a word, like, and you can set this up with templates for what kinds of things you're looking at, I'm not saying we'll get rid of flat browsing, but we need to add something to it.
We need to add ambiguity like we have when we go into our minds. And there's lots of ways we can do that.
When you type, I want you to imagine a set of rings. Let's say that there are two vertical rings on the sides, and a horizontal ring in the center or at the bottom.
And above the horizontal ring, there's a space you can type. And so you type your keywords in the space above the horizontal ring.
And this is an application that lives on your desktop. It replaces your browser. It's a knowledge browser. It doesn't just work with the Internet.
It'll actually work with any kind of document on your desktop. But it uses a different idea. It uses a poetic mode of searching that helps you learn in a variety of different ways every time you search.
You can go ahead and do a straight database search if you want, like you do now, just by clicking a button.
But if you rather explore and you type in a phrase like origin of stars, well, over on the left-hand vertical ring, you might see a lot of words about origins and maybe some etymological terms above this display
that tell you the Latin and the Greek and possibly some other languages that you've set up, etymologies for those terms you've just typed in so that every time you type a word, you learn etymologically about that word every time you do a search.
And then over on the left and right, there are expansions, possible expansions you haven't thought of.
Now, these expansions are based on a little intelligence database that belongs particularly to you and to the users of your local machine. It can also belong to some of your friends. We'll get into that in a moment.
This little intelligence database is built every time you do anything with data on your computer.
And what it does is it learns about your mind, it learns about your preferences, it learns about what's important to you, much like Google might accept locally on your computer.
And it builds a linked database of those interests that it grows and connotates and instructs each time you do anything on your computer.
But definitely when you use the internet. And from that, it produces a variety of interesting options.
On the left side, you might get very experimental options that expand on your search ideas in little choosable rings that you can spin.
On the right side, you might get very denotative options, scientific options, options in theory, philosophical options.
And on the bottom, in the ring that you can spin down there, we can put other kinds of expansion data, related ideas, images.
Now, we could actually set this up so that you can dive into it instead of just then hitting enter or picking a few options and changing your search.
This can be set up so that you can dive into it. And every time you use it, it builds your database.
Let me explain what's exciting about this idea. Every time you do any kind of a search, you're going to learn mad stuff that you never imagined.
In fact, that no one ever imagined. And it's going to be tailored not just to you, but to all of the people that use your machine.
And these little databases are worth money, lots of money. They are what we're being fleeced of by Facebook, by Google, by Twitter, by Pinterest, by Tumblr, by Vine, by all of the new, free, wonderful,
we thought they were liberating products. No, they're fleecing us of these little intelligence databases that they can't use as effectively as we can.
In fact, they can't use them one-one-thousandth as effectively as we can. And whatever kind of intelligence they're assembling will be evolved or developed or progressed.
I'm at a loss for a word here.
Will be radically improved. If we can improve our intelligence just a tiny percentage, what I'm talking about will improve our social intelligence, our intellectual intelligence, our creative intelligence in millions of ways.
I'm just showing you the surface of this product, but it will work creatively with artists, with imagery, with sound, with text, and it will link us in social networks that share our intelligence and allow us to link, share, sell, profit from, and grow our intelligence.
So imagine this. You start developing your little intelligence database by all the stuff you do on your computer, and this application lets you do all kinds of searches.
You can search any of your documents. You can search the internet. It interfaces with Google. It interfaces with all of your social networks.
But it keeps all your data local to you. You control it. Anything you create with this is controlled by you.
And it'll have a social networking component whose data it can share based on your preferences alone, whose data you alone will own, and it will only be owned by you.
No one else will control it. No one else will tell you who's friend you can be or can't be. No one else will tell you what content you can or can't have.
And this will also be a form of intelligence that generates money for you, for your family, that generates resources for you and your family every time you use the internet.
Because right now all those resources are being stolen, and they're pretending to give us services, but they're not services. They're prisons.
For our intelligence. And every time we use them, we get more ignorant, whereas every time we use this, we'll get more intelligent.
But that's just the beginning of it. Because these little databases are profound, let me explain.
You can build rings of them with your friends, so that you use your social intelligence to search documents, databases, and extensional ideas from them.
This is an easily-assembled technology. With a team, I could build this product. In six months, we could have a working prototype for the available losses.
This is not the future. This is something we could have done ten years ago, but nobody's thinking this way, because they're still thinking like 1940, and we're still using the internet like it's a dictionary.
And the most advanced people that we have have not thought of anything like this, and no one's even noticed that we should be navigating through information in a way that is astonishing, exciting, where every time we do it, we are learning amazing new things
and increasing our intelligence and insight in the way we can link and metify information, the way that we can derive and experience meaning.
That's what the internet is at least for. Never mind the fantastic opportunities of using it as an intelligence prosthesis, which is something I'm not even going to talk about here.
I'm just talking about let's build a tool that leads us in that direction that no one's done yet, easy to do, anyone can do this.
And this idea here that I'm describing is proof of a concept, right, that we can build a knowledge browser that's far more encouraging. It's not denotative. It gives us connotations for our searches.
It gives us suggestions that are unusual, that are built on intelligence.
In fact, these little database objects, you can share them in rings, but imagine being able to search with the intelligence of famous people, famous scientists, famous researchers, famous authors.
We'll be able to share the databases and sell those little database objects of intelligence in profound ways, and they can have orders of privacy so that your database has one ring that's shared with anyone who wants them,
one ring that's shared only with people who are acquaintances, another ring only for business, another ring only for family, another ring only for intimates.
We will own all our information. The other companies like Google and Facebook can still profit, but we will own these little databases and build our intelligence in ways nobody's even thinking about yet.
The future can be a lot more amazing than the tiny toy that I'm painting here, unless we believe that our role in the internet is the role of sheep.
And if that's the case, we're going to be fleeced by the wolves like Google and Twitter, Facebook, Tumblr, P interest, Vine, and so on.
And we're going to be owned by the hackers, the ferals. We're going to be owned by those people. We're going to be turned into leashed servants and our governments and these corporations.
No, no. We've got to build an application like this. We've got to learn and teach each other how to become more intelligent every time we touch technology.
And that means connecting to each other in ways with habits and goals and agreements that return our humanity, our ecological intelligence and hope of an ecological future, our liberty, our human rights, our actual fellowship because this is one single planet.
And our capacity to use the resources that we have worked so hard and that so many have died and been imprisoned to establish in ways so beautiful and powerful and insightful that we can change the meaning of human history and the possibilities of the human future and we can do this today.
It requires only our agreement. If you know anyone who is interested in doing this right now, get in touch with me and please think about using technology more intelligently every time you touch it because until we do that, it represents a deadly danger.
It is competing with life on Earth and winning. Machines, photographs, little pieces of text and cars are winning against human lives, living places, the future of life on Earth and human intelligence.
This cannot proceed. It is our absolute obligation, a difficult and beautiful responsibility that we must together fulfill. Let us make that choice and that agreement today. And until we have accomplished it, let us nods down down. Thank you.
Thank you.
