Hello. Thanks for joining me. My name is Darren Stevenson. You can find me on Facebook as the
Darren Stevenson in San Francisco. Today is Wednesday, December 25th, 2013. And I'd like
to talk about a couple of ideas that are very important to our social existence, our political
existence, our intelligence, how we relate with one another, and how we form groups or what we
think of as groups. Now, if you look at the media on Facebook, you're going to find as many branches
as you can want to distinguish. And you're going to find memberships in each of those branches.
And, you know, lately, there's been this interesting trend where people, they like to
announce, they like to publicly announce the unfriending, quote unquote, of members of their
electronic social groups that either hold some specific opinion or don't. In other words,
if you think this unfriended me now, I just unfriended all my such and such friends because
they think that this is part of a dangerous trend where we, because our culture is so horribly
broken and vicious to us that the primary goal of it is to keep us separated in any way possible.
In fact, in newer ways, each moment separated from each other, separated from true, purposive
intelligence. That means intelligence organized around why we do things, not what we do yet,
or even how we do them, but just why. And if you, if you can mess this why up just a little bit,
you can control the entire population like slaves or prison, you know, workers. So one of the things
you see on media is people getting rid of each other due to ideas. This is interesting and makes
sense because once you don't have tightly knit social groups, which I'm going to call a pod,
like a dolphin pod, or a, say a pod of gorillas, a troop of gorillas, or one else. You know,
I think we call whale pods pods, you can call them a cell group. It's, it actually looks something
like a hand, right? There's a, there's usually sort of a central member or a leader member or few,
few beings. And then you've got some working members who are team members. Yeah. And then there's
the group, the idea of the group. This is how they live together. And then this would be their
connection to similar structures like a body with other pod groups that are very similar and yet
distinct. Yeah. And these pods flow through time like, like dolphins flow through water, right,
together. Right. And because they're together like this, as they flow through time, their members
changing positions and leadership roles and learning together as a single animal, as one animal.
This animal comes to know itself as a group. And through that, each of the members get very
amazing roles and opportunities. This is why we love to play roles, because we don't get any,
and we're not allowed to have any, our only real roles are slave roles, actually. So because we've
all been broken away from pods into none of this, right, this goes away, and you just have the
separate fingers. So you've got leaders who fight and compete for dominance. And then you've got a
bunch of working members who don't really have any power, because unconnected from this and this,
these people aren't even people. They just start fighting and complaining. And what they do, instead
of being able to sort of start to reveal how they're actually just one animal and flow together
through thought and through ideas and through time is they just start to fight each other, right,
which makes anyone who's outside that the Machiavellian dominant people, yeah,
that gives them total power to just make these people do and think whatever they want. And then
these people start getting these people to blame each other, right. This is your fault. No, it's
your fault. No, it's your fault, your fault, your fault. And so that means that once that happens,
okay, that which connects them, the body with which they'll flow together as one animal and
learn and grow for each other. It's not liberal, not religious. It's completely non-ideological.
It's absolutely inclusive. There's no distinctions of who it's not for
each other. That's the idea behind liberty. That's the idea behind rights.
That's the basic root of human intelligence. And when you pull it away, you don't get any.
If you have to fake it with laws or ideologies, excuse me, or subcultures, rebellious, fashionable,
intellectual, poetic, artistic, creative, or otherwise, you're dead, you've had it, you're
done. Here's why. The more that you start to argue about which way is the right way,
the more you're arguing about which hand would you like to have on, you know, which finger would
you like to have left on your hand. So if you think you can get along without the bad guys,
for example, or they should all be in prison, no, they go in there in your government.
So that's the problem. You need some bad guys. If you think you can get along without the
conservatives, right, you're out of your mind. And if you think you need to change them all,
you're wrong, you need to educate them. Same with the bad guys. Bad guys that turn to Robinhoods
if you educate them. The conservatives have a great role if you educate them. The liberals are
amazing heroes if you educate them. The moderates, everybody, the even, you know, that's why we have
diversity because you need the whole darn thing. And the most important thing is once you get these
people fighting, okay, just get these people fighting, here's what happens. It's like jaws,
really, right? The palm, what brings them together and gives them intelligence so that they can
really learn and grow and accomplish things, it disappears. This palm is actually connected to
every group on earth, every group of animals, every ecosystem, every group of people who ever
lived and died. This palm contains our heroes, the memories of our heroes. Without this, we
start to lose those and think that we're the cause. And as it gets like this, right, which is how it
is sort of in our culture right now, these people are all fighting so hard that all of their work
is spent on war and complaining and useless stuff that can't become intelligent, can't accomplish
anything, and just makes these people happier because it just gives them more and more power
to push us down with our own effort that they're like, we're making the effort with which they're
pushing us down and paying them to do that, which is essentially turning nations into prisons.
Of course, they want to surveil you. I'll tell you a little secret. In a pod group, we're all
constantly surveilling each other because we live in such close proximity, we know everything about
each other. And what that means is that we get purposive intelligence, we know why we are doing
things and why is it? We're doing it for mutual excellence, growth, education, development,
fulfillment, expression, joy, creativity. Watch a dolphin pod. They're serious when they need to
be serious. They're the most intelligent, playful animal. As a single animal, you've ever seen.
They'll do incredibly astonishing things as a group. But if you break them apart,
the intelligence starts to plummet, just like ours. And we get sick. Here's why. In a pod group,
you learn what your identity is by how you interact with the others. If there are, if there are,
there's no each other. You don't get intelligence at all. You get competitive, predatory,
confusion, schizophrenia, psychosis. You get individuals broken out from pod groups where
they have to attack anything that even looks like a pod because they're so broken out, they can't,
they cannot derive their own identity from the group. And by the way, that's, we don't have
identities. They're not you and me. I am me only in the history and ring of all those people with
whom I am understood and who I understand. My heroes, the villains, my enemies, my family members
that I can't stand and the ones that I love, the people in public who I disagree with and those
that I totally agree with, the ones I want to, the ones I want to teach me and the ones I want to
teach. So we can't be ourselves without these pods. And if you break them apart, we can't
know ourselves. We start competing as warriors. We're all confused. Our families don't work. We
have no social agreement. It goes like this. And we have no, the hand is the most intelligent.
This is actually wire species intelligence. We have this. And notice that you wouldn't want
each finger the same and that the ways that they can change and do all kinds of things together
are actually what give us the technology to chase intelligence, which we've been failing to do,
by the way, because you can only do it like this. And we've been doing it like that with
Machiavelli's out here, like Facebook, Google, the didax of the authorities.
We can't do that anymore. The authorities have to be totally connected and one being and letting
us lead a little bit, and then they lead, and then we lead, and then they lead, so that we're
sort of leapfrogging through time like dolphins swimming forward through the water, not at the
ocean, but of intelligence connectivity, learning, growth and fulfillment. Without that, we can't
be human. And we need our ecosystems for that because they actually lifted us up and gave us
our identity. So if we start attacking them, we just turn into this. And in the larger context,
the more we become this, the dumber, more combative, more paranoid, and more well armed we become.
We can't afford to keep building weapons. Pod members don't do that. The reason is they're
going to stay in constant intimacy. And what that means is that conflict and combat
only occur to better everyone. And anyone who starts conflict or combat that doesn't
better everyone because there's that purposive intelligence with and for each other,
all combat is only for that. Therefore, there's no more phony combat, no more phony intelligence,
no more fashion, because you're going to have fake displays. You only have authentic displays
because we all live together, right? So without that, we can't be human. And with that,
we will be something that looks to us like superhuman. This is what the great prophets
of history were speaking of. The powers of our minds and hearts in a pod can raise the dead.
They can change the nation in a week. They can change the way we all, the world over,
work and think together. Because these little pods have something that we don't have to have,
which is they have true moral and ethical identity. And thus within them, we can have
true moral and ethical identity instead of stuff written down on paper like laws and things.
We can have the real stuff. And when you have that, you become empowered to be and do anything.
It's not about lines or religion, it's just about being together as human beings and animals.
On a planet as astonishing as ours. In the moment where we still exist with some hope of trying this,
because our ecosystems haven't been wiped out yet, and we haven't been completely converted into
slaves. So one tiny suggestion. Your friends aren't their ideas, okay? And we can learn together
to use our disagreements as powers to make us more intelligent every time we act.
When we complain without solutions, when we blame people or problems and frighten our neighbors
without binding us closer together, we're worsening those problems, whether they're ecological,
economic, ideological, political, emotional, whether they're based on gender, rights,
what people have done or haven't done, we think. All of these problems can be solved in ways that
are so shockingly beautiful and powerful that they will restore our humanity, our democracy,
and our liberation. Our power to liberate each other and live as human beings in the world.
Or we can keep complaining, pretending we're victims, that we're separate, that my idea
and your idea are a war, right? That we're monsters of conflict and we're going to arm up
with tough and scary language. We're going to frighten each other to get attention.
You know, the activist media has this much solution for the American people,
for the people of the world in general. They make, you know, flighty superficial arguments that
everyone can agree with or not agree with. That's useless. We need intelligent, connected dialogue
within for each other from now on. If we reach for that and establish that as a standard,
nothing will hold us back. We will reestablish pod intelligence instead of the phony kind that
we're playing with. And we'll be able to take the ball from the people like Snowden and Assange
and the other leaders who are trying to show us another direction and it's not a direction of
ideologies. It's a direction of discovery in unity. It's 2013, not 1932. Merry Christmas.
Thanks for joining me. You can find me on the web at organelle.org or
wondercloud.wordpress.com. That's wondercloud.
All blessings to you and those of you who are. Bye for now. See you on the net.
