Hi. Today is Thursday. I believe it's December. Actually, I'm not sure what day it is. I think
it's maybe the 9th? I'm not even sure. It's 1.59 a.m. I'm here to talk to you today about
facts that relate to how authority or how we how we relate and communicate and are
bound to and are often destroyed by our relationship with authority in general and specifically
with falsified authorities. A false authority is one-sided in every case. And when generally
speaking when you are involved with any kind of a false authority, whether it be an educational
authority, a religious authority, a political authority, a legal authority, a medical authority,
or even an expert, what you most often have is a is a very one-sided, non-relational situation
where you're essentially being dominated and fleeced and often killed or badly violated
in a way that is cruel and human, unintelligent and basically just wrong. So I'm going to talk
a little bit about that in the specific domain of medicine. I am something of an intelligence
artist and what that means is I look for and develop intelligence everywhere that I go.
And for a long time I've been a diagnostician. The reason that I got started as a diagnostician
was because I was an emergency technical consultant. What that means is when somebody
has a very severe technical problem that they can't find anyone to solve and it's costing
them thousands or tens of thousands of dollars per minute, they call me. And this is what
I did for about 10 years prior to the change in how I lived my life. So essentially what
I did was I helped large companies deal with uncommon technical problems, usually with
networks, not generally with single machines, although I also worked on single machines
and I also worked for individual users all over San Francisco for about 10 years. Out
of over 15,000 calls, I had two I couldn't solve and that was merely because even though
I wasn't familiar, even in a situation where I'm not familiar with the technology that
the problem is resolving or revolving around, I can solve it in most cases very quickly.
And so through that process I learned to be, I learned some diagnostic skills and I developed
fairly excellent diagnostic skills because I had to work very quickly under high pressure
and there was a lot at stake. Also, because I was not necessarily in authority, I had
to produce actual results or lose my job. I could not really fool my clients. I could
not pretend to have done the best job that was possible and not have actually produced
a good result, which all of our authorities do all day long, all of them. In other words,
they produce either poor, either no, poor, cruel or lethal results and it doesn't matter
what they do, they get celebrated in tons of money. That means basically apocalypse.
So if you have a disagreement with someone, both sides often feel that their side is actually
the only truth and that they just want to tell the other person what their side is and
then dominate that person and have them agree. And that's not intelligence. Intelligence
is like, you know, there might be some balancing, but eventually there's some of this. There's
at least both sides have a conversation. Also, when there's a problem, both sides have a
role in the problem and they both sides have a role in the solution and the expert's role
is not to tell the other being just what to be. But it is to help to catalyze both insight
and flow because when a problem arises, there's usually a kind of a locked quality to it, especially
with health and the flow in a sense has been interrupted. And this is exactly what people
were paying me to resolve because they had a workflow that got locked by something that
no one could figure out how to unlock. So they would have me come and figure out how
to unlock it as quickly as possible. The most money I ever made doing that was $3,000. It
took me about four minutes. So that was $1,000 a minute. You can do the math for how much
that is an hour or per day or week. I was paid that much money because I can do what I do
really well and quickly and in a friendly, exciting fashion that generally helps everybody
learn a lot and be really involved in the process and feel like something amazing happened
because it usually does. This is what happens when we're intelligent together. Okay, it's
happening when we have an actual like a proversation, which is a with a conversation, but it's both
sides and they link and they produce this complex solution like structure by the way,
solution flow, right? Resolution, reflowing. So what I want to talk about specifically
is medicine because in my own life, I've been nearly destroyed by it. And my recent experiences
with medical doctors are so ridiculously absurd that if I were that really, we're just doing
it wrong. And I don't mean like kind of wrong, we're doing it completely wrong. Let me explain.
The first thing is when you have authorities who in any way, surveil or get data on you, you
have to do the same to them, you have to surveil and get data on them with the same sort of
order of intelligence and power that they have and force. So that if they say blah, blah, you
have data, okay, not just an idea, to the same way they have data, right, they have, they have the
data of their expertise and their studied and their very specific modes of looking at certain
kinds of problems as in medicine. And by medicine here, I'm speaking specifically about what we
call allopathic medicine, which is the medicine that comes from what we understand as medicinal
science. That is an extremely, extremely narrow field of expertise. And it's wrong minded because
the organism is not an objective entity, it never was. And treating it that way is possible. But
the results are generally catastrophic. And if it becomes a one excited conversation, it's
absolutely catastrophic. Let me explain. So the reason that I'm talking about surveilling the
experts is that we need to have data to show them when they are wrong. Let me explain what's not
happening in our medical system on a superficial level. And then I'll show what's not happening on
a deeper level. What's not happening on a superficial level is any kind of conversation. When
people go into the hospital to see a doctor, they are told what to do. That's it. And ordinarily,
speaking, the way they are told is as if they were an object. They do a few tests, they get a
little data, they throw drugs at you, if it doesn't work or kills you too bad. And not only that,
there's no efficacy tracking. None. In other words, no one is really testing or publishing the
results of treatment. If they are, it's published only for insurance companies and for medical
professionals, we see none of that. Therefore, we can't tell if the doctors are succeeding,
failing or what. We don't know what happens in our hospitals. What we do know is that it's
probably the single most dangerous place for you to ever go. Unless you're going there for a very
brief stay for a very simple reason, or you're just going there for like an emergency room visit,
you're in real, real danger there. And there's lots of reasons why. One of the reasons why,
which I discovered 15 years ago, medical science would not listen to me at all, is that we have a
microbiome, which is a complex planet like, it's as complex as the planet. Okay, we have a complex
ecosystem of organisms in our bodies, actually not in our bodies, comprising our bodies. Let me
explain a little bit about that. We are in a sense like the tree of evolution of life on earth. So
we come up to a point kind of like this. What's down here at the bottom? Funguses. What's up the
next level? Viruses. What's up the next level? Bacteria. The next level at the top, animal cells.
And the animal cells, there's one more level, which is organs. And those are complex, basically
animals inside us. Your bones are an animal, your blood, an animal, your tongue, that thing. Look
at that. Almost every animal on earth has one of these. It's an animal. This is an intelligence.
Okay, it's a fully fledged intelligence. If you remove it, your intelligence will suffer, your body
will suffer, your health will suffer, because what you have here is really more like a zoo than it is
like a group of machines. Okay, and what our science does is treat it like we're a group of
machines or objects that have little data points that they can just nudge. Wrong. No. Actually,
that's how you kill an organism. So the first thing we need to realize is what's the nature of the
combination that produces an animal like us. Well, here's what it looks like. I don't know the exact
numbers on the very on the most primitive cells, but for the fungal cells, I'm going to guess
50,000 trillion objects in our body of fungal cells for many of us, between 5,000 and 50,000
trillion. For the viruses, I'm going to guess about 5,000 trillion. I don't know the numbers on
that yet. I think we may have some vague estimates on that one. For the bacterial cells, approximately
500 trillion cells. And for your animal cells, 50 trillion cells. And what that means is that
your bacterial the bacterial component of your body is 90% of your cells by volume by number.
Okay. So you have 90% nine times the amount of bacterial cells that you have animal cells. But
until very recently science didn't even think of those as you. In fact, when you went to the doctor
almost no matter what was wrong with you, they would burn down your commensal microbiota with
antibiotics and they call that medicine. Okay. No one really tracked what the results of that
was and we're still not doing it because we don't have a way to do it. We don't actually understand
the commensal microbiota at all. We're just learning about it now. And it's most it's a highly
organized intelligence and it's a regulating system in our health just like the viruses are
and underneath them probably we will discover the fungal elements are. So for almost all of
modern medical history, in fact for all of it, we've been ignoring the fact that 90% of our body
is bacterial. Okay. In terms of cell count. And we've been burning that down in the same way
we've burned down the rainforests and the oceans to produce data or to get, you know, product or
to get some result we like. And as we're doing that, our biology and our intelligence and our
relational intelligence as human beings, our purpose of intelligence as collectives is being
obliterated. It's being replaced by extremely dominating expert sort of tyrants that destroy
life and just tell you how to die essentially and charge you every price for that. Now this
doesn't mean that you can't get a medical solution from allopathic medicine. What it does mean is
that the experts there are not experts. They're idiots actually. And the idiot is someone who
lives in a world of their own and goes around telling other beings. They're not connected to
the world. They're not relating at all. They're just telling other beings very ignorant things
about what they are, what they should do, what they must do, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
Now if we have sous valence, sous valence, which is the opposite of surveillance, we
surveil those who surveil us, okay, which is something the author David Brin, someone I'm
very fond of but who's also extremely conservative, is on about a lot. I'd like to encourage you to
look into his writings on sous valence because sous valence is a crucial aspect of human intelligence
and it's actually what's missing from the internet. We're not getting the intelligence we're producing
on the internet. Those expert tyrants like Google, Facebook, Twitter, they're they're just
fleecing whole new modes of intelligence from our behavior which we see none of, right. So these are
actually a new form of tyrannical collective that basically just fleeces us of new forms of
intelligence that we could produce and share with each other and benefit from wildly and then
sells us little tiny pieces of that back. When you go to see a doctor, this is not a person
equipped to diagnose a living being. This is a person equipped to diagnose a mechanical situation
in general. I have watched them kill my friends and family outright, just kill them and call
it treatment. In my own case which I'm not going to discuss, I can't even get any kind of reasonable
medical attention, advice, etc. Because the doctors in general and the system in general,
the system that they are part of, is tyrannical. It's some, it is itself a disease. It's ripping
the planet apart, tripping our cultures apart and we're being basically charged to be violated
and we're being charged extreme amounts of money. Just a simple example, I recently paid
almost $2,000 for a simple blood test to have my blood pressure checked and to have a doctor treat
me like an idiot for two hours and there was no treatment, there was no diagnosis, there was no
analysis of the health issues that I have. What there was, was an expert who could not in any way
connect with the patient, an organism, life itself, disease, healing, diagnostic skill,
anything. He's just such an expert and he's so well paid, he doesn't have to listen to anyone
ever again for any reason. Unless he gets in a court case, in which case he hires a lawyer,
another expert who basically just backs him up with a sword. We're dying of this. Our whole
nation is being ripped apart and what's happening in our hospitals and doctors offices is a seething
lie. It is not healing. I'm going to explain a little bit about that. As a diagnostician,
what I discovered during helping people with, during my work helping them with computer issues
was that many of the issues that arose were actually emotional issues. They had an emotional
component, even in computer users. In health, this is vastly more true. When we have a health
problem, we are actually signaling about two, at least two things. The first is the ecological
environment, the context that we are immersed in. What is the nature of these contexts? This is
completely ignored by medicine. We're treated as if we are the cause. This is the same thing that
happens in law. We torture children that produces criminals because actually it is supposed to
produce criminals if you torture children. That's how you learn that you're torturing children,
is that you get criminals. If when you get criminals, you then attack that signal,
what happens is this. You don't trace the signal back to its cause. You don't re-resolve that. You
get hypercriminals on the next phase. You're breeding criminals and pretending it's individual
problems. It's Joe. It's Tim who killed 50 people with the shooting. Wrong. It's us. Our cultures are
poisonous and that's why we produce, that's why they produce criminals as signals. Our cultures
are poisonous. That's why they produce tyrannical experts as almost demonic overlords, okay,
literally, because with or without religion, what they're doing is absolutely wrong and it's
wrong in such a fundamental way that it's evil. It's the opposite of being alive. It's just the
reverse. It's the reverse of live. In order to understand and do something about this, in order
to have a positive road that we can choose together to go forward into, the first thing we need is
some information on what the problems are based on and the second thing we need is the agreement
to learn and grow and explore this together both with the experts and together as their
subjects. I don't even know what they think of us as. I guess they think of us as
patients. Well, we sure need a lot of patients these days to deal with people this ignorantly
proud of their bizarre status above us. The first thing I want to mention about illness
is this. In studying various relational technologies, one of these is very badly
mis-conceived as hypnosis and I don't really believe in hypnosis at all. I think we don't
understand what relation is. We don't understand much about what intelligence is
and hypnosis is actually another form of intelligence. It's not a trick.
We use trance all the time. Hypnosis is a way of entering another form of intelligence.
In studying trance and all of the different phenomenon that can be catalyzed and can be
observed in trance, I began to realize that illness was deeply, deeply a problem based
on human relation and also emotions and not just in the individual but in their relational
contexts, in their families, in their social groups and in their relationships with
various collectives, which almost all of our collectives are false and they're dominating
authoritative false collectives, even the ones that pretend to be for us. Even our
subcultures that we sort of join as hobbies or fans are very, very toxic and they crush us down.
They don't give us roles. So part of the problem with illness is simply that we are not relating
with one another or our environment and we get sick because we don't relate with our food sources
directly, which is absolutely crucial if we don't get the bacterial symbionts that we need
to deal with those food sources adequately. We also don't get the bacterial symbionts we need
to avoid things like allergies and what I would call immune dysfunction or autoimmune dysfunction
where aspects of your immune system, which are a relational intelligence,
misfunction wildly because they have been misinformed about the nature of the context
we live in by the way we live in the context. This creates disease. It has to create disease.
If it didn't, we would die because we wouldn't be able to see the problem. We wouldn't be able to
take the disease and trace it back to its sources in our relationships and environment,
fix those and then that's the way you resolve the problem. Now of course you do have to cure
this too or you have to help the person with the problem in the immediate moment,
but the way that you do that best is by tracing it back to sources, not by throwing bullets at it,
which kill the person and their other organs and do way more harm than good. The first rule
of medicine is do no further harm. We have ignored this rule completely and the first rule really
should be understand the nature of intimacy. Let me explain why. A person who is ill has a role
that we're ignoring. We pretend that they are suffering from bad luck or that they've maybe
done something wrong, made a mistake and this is well understood in the psyche of the person
who is sick, but they may not be able to say it. Now a long time ago what used to happen before
there was any kind of allopathic medicine was that someone would get sick in a community.
So this is a situation like this where this could be many more than five people
and this is what holds them all together and it's real. It's a matter of absolutely shared mutual
concern and complete agreement among all these members. This would be the leader or the sort
of the star of the little solar system. So in the old groups what would happen when someone got sick
is everyone would come together around them and it would draw everyone into very tight close
intimacy and they would dance and sing and the medicine man, the leader, would not really be
the tyrannical expert. What he would be is the seeker who would go back to find the problem
that was being signaled and then would, by addressing that problem, cause a radical change of flow
and lock, locking, in the signaler, who was not really seen to be the problem.
What seemed to be the problem was relation. This is the result of misrelation and since
they understood this when someone was sick what happened was really shocking. Their entire community
was reborn. It was corrected. It was very deeply and profoundly reeducated and it was reborn as a
unit all together and so in other words one person got sick. This person became fiercely
educated by that because this is their diagnostician and these people all had roles in healing them and
this worked like magic because the nature of illness is relational first, mechanical second or
third or fourth. So we go and treat it as mechanical first. We ignore the relational aspects in general.
We just flush them down the toilet and we create experts who believe this is the right and good way.
It cannot be thus. So one of the things that we can do is first of all we can we can just begin
to understand and explore these ideas together which is what I'm recommending here and asking us
all to do and please we really need to do this now. We need to do it publicly in open dialogue with
both allopaths and others, homeopaths and such. Not that I believe in homeopaths either. They're
doing the same thing basically. They're kind of again they're not creating this. See that's a
problem. If you're not creating this, if you're not acknowledging this and you're just treating the
process mechanically like you're the diagnostician, you can figure it out, you can solve it alone.
You might be able to, even as a non-allopathic practitioner or an allopathic practitioner,
you're going to have occasional luck. You're just going to solve a problem once in a while and it's
going to be great. Everyone's going to be happy. But the allopaths, there's something we don't realize.
Our medicine is killing us. When you go to the doctor to get medicine you're being destroyed
probably eight times out of ten and the products that we use as health products are not healthy at
all. We shouldn't use any of them. I long ago realized if I got a cold or a flu and I just
avoided all medication, arrested and drank a lot of liquids, took a few spices, I would get sick,
I would get sick for a very brief time and I would get well far faster than any of my friends
were taking medicine. Who all recommended that I take medicine? Why? Because that's what they
were taught to do. But the medicines actually put further stress on their metabolism and they
don't help in most cases. There are cases where they do help. I don't want to say we should never
take medicine. I'm saying our intelligence about how we do it is broken badly. So what we need to do,
I think, first of all, is just look at these issues together and discuss them openly and
rationally but also creatively and in a way that focuses on the relational elements. The
focus is on the fact that an individual is a signaler about a miscontexted relational situation,
trace that back, try and learn how that got started, find the actual culprits which are
invariably false collectives selling products and making us into products invariably. 90%
of our illnesses come from this. Yes, there are genetic illnesses and things. They don't get
expressed in or they don't express the same way in tightly knit relational contexts. And we're
producing those problems en masse and not taking any responsibility for it and pretending it's
just an accident or something wrong. We set those people up for cancer. Every single one of us are
corporations. In fact, we set people up for prison in the same way. I mean, a long time ago,
Guy invented ethanol. We put in all the gasoline. It actually attacked everyone's nervous system so
that produced the criminal behavior for which everyone was tortured, punished and killed.
But what about the people who sold us the gasoline? Well, they just made lots of money
and they're still standing above us. So our hospitals and our doctors are badly wrong-minded
in general. There are a vague few of them who are decent diagnosticians, even in that paradigm,
but the paradigm is completely broken just like our governments are. We need to realize that
medicine has to be deeply relational and that when someone is sick, what's really going on
is two things. The first is a call to unity. Our experts need to be reeducated, not tell us what
they know. And our people have to have roles that are meaningful and intimate with the person,
with each other, with the expert. Number one, that doesn't work. If that's not happening,
we don't have medicine. We've got a stick with one snake around it. And that's not medicine.
That's a demon, just bluntly. The second thing is we've got to trace things back to their causes
in relation and the environment. Not in like a superstitious way, but it is a poetic way. So
it's not purely rational. And we need to resolve those issues in the environment that produce
the dis ease that we go for treatment for. We need to stop the whole hospital idea.
That's a death camp. That's essentially a glog. No, that's the wrong way to do it.
We've got professional experts treating people like objects. And even if they care about them,
and many of them do, particularly the nurses are heroically powerful. It's just
we isolate the sick person. That's exactly the wrong thing to do. Now, of course, if they're
contagious or something, we need to be cautious. But we're just putting them in a place that's
hyper contagious. So you get a person who's sick, you put them in hyper contagion, isolation,
no relation. And we call this medicine, then we pour poisons into their body and they die.
Now, of course, we burned down most of their body, maybe we accidentally burned down the
thing that was killing them too. That's the dumbest possible way to attempt to heal anything.
If I had tried that in my business with machines, I wouldn't have lasted a day because the results
would have shown that I was an idiot. Okay, I would have made zero money, no claim, no clients,
I would have had no practice. We've got the opposite, you can fail wildly and just get richer
and richer and more powerful and more powerful. Because no one's looking at the data. When a
doctor prescribes medicine, we don't know what happened. How do you figure out what happened?
Are they even tracking it? No, they don't track. See, they don't have to care if you got cured or
if you died. They don't even have to care. No one knows. Just like our police, okay. Currently in
the United States, the police are doing far more violence than the SS or the Nazis or, you know,
any of the, any of the sort of demonized icons of history that we have that we think are absolutely
abominable. The United States police are doing more violence to US citizens every, you know,
every week, probably, every month than any of those people that we despise in our myths. And
we're not even noticing why we don't have the data. How do I know that? I actually did the research.
95% of the complaints against the police in my city were completely destroyed
in 1996 or something, right? That was millennia ago. These days, about 1% of them get through,
okay? So all the data of what the police are doing to our citizens, I don't mean just,
just the people who get arrested. I mean what they're doing every day to people on the street.
We don't even hear about it, okay? It just gets buried. And it's the same thing with our doctors.
They can do anything they want. They can prescribe anything they want to you. No one's tracking it.
There's a little bit of tracking in the hospitals, but you don't get to see that. I don't get to see
that. We know nothing about what their performance rates are. Nothing. They don't have to perform at
all. They can kill you and it won't even matter. As long as you don't sue them, no one will ever know.
And even if you do sue them, big deal. There's a data point. The insurance rates change. So what?
They don't have to change what they do. I went directly into hospitals and interviewed doctors.
I stood next to a neurosurgeon while she took the top of the guy's head off and operated on his
brain. I know exactly what they're doing in the hospitals. I spent eight hours in that operating
room, by the way. And what I saw in that operating room convinced me of one thing. I'm never going
into one. Ever under any circumstances. Because what happened in that operating room with one of
the finest expert neurosurgeons in our nation was so shocking that if I told you the story,
you'd be weeping and frustrated and terrified. I'm not going to do it. It's just not unfriendly.
What I want you to understand is what's happening in the hospital. I'm an expert diagnostician.
I can fix problems. What's happening in our hospitals is dead wrong. Dead wrong. It's killing
our children, our elderly and our families. It's destroying our health. We're paying shocking
amounts of money for it. Insurance is a complete scam. That was invented by people who come and
threaten you. And then if you don't pay, they burn your house down. That's exactly what's going on
here. We've paid 10 times over for health care. That's actually health atrocity. And we're just
paying to be murdered. No more of this. We need to understand something. Our collectives have to
be real collectives. They have to be based on things like us. This is the model of my own body.
Okay, first I am one, but I am connected to all other beings. Then I have separate sort of elements,
but they're not really separate, are they? And then I exist in a family like this, or I don't exist.
See, we got so the opposite idea that you're a broken off individual thing. And when you're a
patient, you're a broken off individual thing. They isolate you. It's a lie. You can't live that way.
You can't survive that way. Your chances of healing in that environment are so slim that I
don't even understand how anyone could think that was medicine. Another thing I want you to know
is that when I was a young man, I worked in a hospital all the time for a year and a half for
three nights a week, four hours a night I spent in the intensive care unit with
people who needed someone to just be with them. They called me a hospital chaplain. It was not
a religious position. I was just there to be a sort of an ally and an advocate who was unknown
to the person, a stranger, who could really just be with them and listen or talk or whatever they
wanted to do. So I would just come by and say, hey, how are you doing this evening? Would you like
someone to talk to? And of course, I was very young. I was well-dressed and everything. And I learned
more during that experience than I think I may have learned in any other simple experience like
that in my life. Watching what happened in the hospitals was terrifying. It's wrong. We need to
do something about it. All of our collectives are false, okay? Our educational collectives,
our legal collectives, everything, our defense collectives. It's all false collectives. We're
producing false people, false intelligence. Our roles are falsified. And thus, we have to take
roles that are against our humanity, against our organism, against our ecology, against our
relationality, which is the basis of our humanity, and fundamentally against our unity. This has
to stop here. Together, with and for each other, the history of life on earth, our future, and the
promise of human intelligence, care, and wonder. That's my invitation. And that is an invitation
to health. I hope that you'll join me in my life for now. And thanks. We learn together.
