So, we have this idea that qualities are in individuals, and they're not.
They're in the way that those individuals are relating to each other and the environment and assets.
In other words, the individual is a nucleation.
And while the nucleation acquires qualities over time, it acquires them from and into relationships and relational contexts.
So, when I was younger, I used to wonder, where did Einstein?
Why don't we just produce these Einstein's all the time now that we produced him?
And I kept expecting culture to produce a new Einstein, and when it didn't, I was kind of surprised.
There's lots of excuses for why that might have happened, but the main one is that under the pressures of our theories about ourselves and sociality,
we lost many aspects of our real, accessible intelligence and sociality.
And we came to believe that superstars were the sort of way of nature, right, that stuff's in individuals.
When it never can be, all that stuff is the result of relation with contexts and groups, how groups relate, why they're relating, these kinds of things.
When there's an environment of urgent relation over an issue or a problem among many great minds,
we get a kind of superposition that produces unique forms of nucleation.
If we don't produce the urgency, which we often use war or commerce to do, then, which we should be using something else for,
then we just don't get those complex nucleations because we never, we damage the context from which they emerge.
We don't know much about those contexts and the idea that it emerges in and as an individual is fundamentally mistaken.
So over time that gets worse, not better.
While we were waiting for Einstein, and while we were listening to Osho, and while we were following the president, we were failing to become them.
That's the other obvious repercussion, right?
The past expectation of the delivery of superheroes deprives us of the necessity of becoming them, which is actually our nature, especially together.
