We've learned in a very abstract context about the wave-particle duality, or this is what
we call it, of light.
And so we've learned, stated very clumsily, that when we're trying to determine whether
light is, is, that's an important word there, a wave phenomenon, or a particle phenomenon,
we get, we kind of get both answers.
And we don't yet deeply understand why this is with light.
And you know, there are metaphysical ideas that this has to do with the imposition of
consciousness upon matter, and there are more rigorous ideas that have to do with the relationship
between observation and phenomenon.
But there's something I think we are missing about this, and it's metaphoric, so it's
not easily necessarily proven in a mathematical, abstract context that we could value as rigorous,
yet it's true.
And it's, it's not metaphysical, it has to do with the nature of how we relate with
language, consciousness, and identity.
So for example, in, in a specific context such as modern American justice, when we determine
what happened, who did it, why, we have a bunch of purposes and frameworks that we impose
on identity intentionally.
And these purposes and frameworks have two specific, strange qualities.
They want to fix values, relationships, and identities through analysis in frozen forms
to determine in a frozen way, quote, what, quote, happened, unquote, and quote, who,
you know, did, what, to whom, or didn't, and this sort of thing, unquote.
They do not, these contexts do not examine themselves very well.
They don't notice that they might be producing these phenomenon.
They don't, in other words, they don't examine the way we approach things or why we are approaching
them as an aspect of how we see them.
They're purposed backwards to freeze identity for purposes of comparison in the past.
That is a way of collapsing a wave, and it's a specific purpose.
The purpose causes us to collapse the wave in a specific way, the wave of what might
have been, who, who might have been, who, what might have been, what, what actions were
doing, what were contextual, what were cultural, what were, you know, what were the real identity.
So if we decide to go back and learn them for the purposes of prosecution, we're going
to freeze them.
So we're going to go backwards to freeze things, preserve those things forward, and demand
that they retain the identities we've painted on them.
So you can see how that's a kind of a collapse from wave, but of course there's another
way to do it, which is to collapse the identities for different purposes, including the purpose
of improving that process for the best possible outcome, which would identify the sources
of these signals and behavior in people, and not merely freeze them with local roles of
responsibility or victimhood, which is insane, it can't be true.
So we could have like a wave-like forward progressing approach that derives identity
and meaning not from the purposes of prosecution, but of progress.
And so that means that identities aren't solid, values aren't solid, they are flexibly and
intelligently, forwardly aware of the potential for whatever we, however we frame this, we'll
be carrying it forward.
Well, what if we frame it intelligently and proactively, humanly, humanely, and not abstractly?
Well, then we can preserve the wave developmentally going forward.
This is essentially what learning is, memorization is more like the law system as we currently
practice it, it's broken.
So there's this interesting thing about our minds, which is, we collapse the wave of
experience and possibility toward descriptions, what things are, what they do, their functions.
We attach abstract values to them.
That's one mode of doing things that produces particles.
That's deceptive.
The actual nature of reality is that the intelligence is in the process of where, why, and how we
might collapse these things differently, more intelligently, with awareness of the process,
with awareness of the impact of our purposes on that process, so that at each step from
what is everything to what is something to what are these things in this context, we're
moving intelligently forward and we're collapsing as we go along, never sticking to a solid
nucleation.
So we have intelligent semi-nuclear forward progress rather than unintelligent forced permanent
nucleated description of previous events.
These are the two ways of using our consciousness and we can learn all of the prodigies in human
history know, either intuitively or consciously, the difference between these two methods.
And they know that freezing identities, values, tokens, and applying set pre-existing frameworks
is a useful method in narrowly defined contexts.
As an arbiter of reality or identity in human beings or relationships, it's catastrophic.
It does not work.
It's not like us.
It's not like reality.
It is like our fictions.
So we can learn to play with this idea of the fact that the wave particle duality of
light as a metaphor can demonstrate a property of our own relationship with consciousness.
We don't have to attach anything metaphysical to it.
How do we know what a tree is?
We're determining what a tree is according to a set of purposes and how we bring frameworks
of identity and value to that question.
Most of us don't do that.
The tree is a very basically frozen lexical element.
We quote no, unquote, what a tree is.
That's very different from discovering all of the possibilities going forward of how
my role, my purpose, my identity, my intentions, and my context change how I collapse the wave
into what I what I call what I'm experiencing and how I think about what I'm experiencing
in my consciousness.
This process is fascinating and deep.
And in fact, all of the quote unquote mystical traditions depend fundamentally upon requiring
a conscious awareness of how purpose, intention, and choice of framework determine our relationships
with identity, qualities, values, ethics, morals, and even purposes because some purposes
destroy our purposes in the same way that they destroy our ability to intelligently
and actively participate in these processes rather than simply receiving the results of
frozen frameworks set up in other places for abstract reasons that actually have little
to do with intelligence and a lot to do with tyranny.
