Hi, thank you for joining me. My name is Darren Stevenson. You can find me on
Facebook as the Darren Stevenson in San Francisco. I also run the website
organelle.org which is the kind of fossilized remains of my developmental
paths and speculations. And some of my writing can be found on my blog at
wondercloud.wordpress.com. I've been talking and thinking a lot lately about
false collectives and how people and groups including our social networks
get converted to assets and resources for purposes and fictional agendas that we
would ordinarily have nothing to do with and never allow. We would never allow
them to even exist, never mind proceed. It's really easy for us to be confused
and fleeced in a sense by the milieu in which we're presently involved. The
internet itself can be leveraged as a sort of Potemkin village. This is a
situation where you set up an empty city or habitable terrain and then as
people move into that terrain thinking they're getting something for free you
actually fleece them of all kinds of resources they brought with them and then
you convert them to purposes that they would never ordinarily serve. I'm going
to talk a lot about that right now and I'm going to specifically focus on the
idea of electronic activism. A lot of what we have in our social networks
particularly in places like Facebook and Google Plus are confusing situations
where this is more much more common on Facebook where we have what appear to be
activist organizations or groups or pages that are actually serving entirely
the other kinds of purposes. In other words purposes that are not oriented
toward our education, our unification, our empowerment and they don't help us
actually change the problems that they're making money talking about. In fact in
many cases they pour cash into the coffers of those people's groups and
forces that they seem to be sort of heroically opposing. Now some of the
activist pages on Facebook are much worse about this than others. There's one I'm
going to single out particularly. It's a group called Sustainable Man. This is a
guy named Chris Agnos and his brother who've apparently invested large sums
of money to produce a publicly sort of pseudo famous little page there where
they get hundreds of thousands of views and the articles they post are often
copied hundreds, thousands, tens of thousands or even millions of times. These
people are not informed about the nature of activism at all and in fact what
they have there is a business. Many of the things that they post that are
copied hundreds or thousands or millions of times they don't even care
that that process is obliterating living beings in the environment. They think
it's just free to make electronic nonsense, memes and things like that that
fail to empower us, that pay the forces that they seem to think they are
opposing lots of money and Facebook is one of those forces and that largely
just kind of propagate a false armchair reactivity or back you know mutual
back patting and false activism. That's a deadly process because it has a lot of
effects that nobody's examining. The first is that the media that they're
spreading doesn't actually make us more intelligent. It doesn't bring us
together with new ways of knowing, seeing and acting in unison to affect
change rapidly. It doesn't resolve the problems that they often post in the
light of and in many cases the things that they're posting if they were
actually followed through as real ideas or processes would be so incredibly
misfounded that they would cause more harm than the sort of fake good that
they seem to be advertising. One of the problems with people in organizations
like this is that they have no interest in correcting their behavior
whatsoever. In fact, riding on the wave of their own popularity and fame, they
simply just go deeper and deeper and deeper into the business model of false
activism and there are of course authentic collectives and authentic
activists which I'm going to speak toward in a little while but right now
what I really want to highlight are some problems that are being wildly
overlooked. The first problem is that when we pay attention to media, we say
the word pay attention, we are actually paying something okay so we may think
that it's free or that there's no result from our constant and ceaseless
liking and clicking and sort of chiming in or you know leaving our two cents.
Actually those things have huge costs. Human attention is one of the most
valuable resources on the planet. When we misspend it, we not only lose the
capacity to spend it wildly but we spend it in ways that support processes,
people and cultures that are attacking the things they are pretending to protect.
When that happens, we all become dumb literally. Our intelligence takes a
massive hit. We are not allowed to form intelligent effective collectives. We get
a pressure valve like situation that bleeds our attention off to make profits
and popularity for people and processes that are opposing our actual goals as
people who care about each other, our intelligence, our children, our environment
in the future. After attempting to talk to the people at Sustainable Man, they
basically just insulted me and said that they didn't like my attitude. Well, I
don't like them spending tens or 20 or hundreds of thousands of dollars. I don't
like them spending the attention of millions of people to promote memes and
little electronic pieces of garbage that get copied a million times and have
zero effect on the problem. If one of us is wrong, me or them, I invite you to
make your own decision. Here I am talking about a way that we can learn how to
not be taken in by this and there they are saying I have a bad attitude. One of
us is probably incorrect. I'm sure you can make the right decision about that. Do
your own research comes to your own conclusions. When we pay attention to
media from falsely oriented collectives or collectives who are either so
ignorant or so driven by the market and by popularity that they're not required
to check what they're doing or even determine if it's works or is dangerous
or what the outcomes are, they just sort of roll ahead on their profits and
popularity. When that happens, everybody loses, everybody. Even the people who
are organizing that are losing because they probably have good intentions.
They're probably not intentionally destroying the agenda of activism and
our hope of doing something about the environmental problems that we've got
to solve immediately, of doing something about the fact that we're all serving and
being converted to assets for false collectives. They're probably not bad
people. They probably really care about all these things but because they're so
popular and they've got so much backing of constant millions of likes and shares
and all of this, they're just not required to even take a look and see if
they're doing anything wrong. Whenever someone comes along who says, hey, the
cost of what you're doing could easily exceed any possible benefit that you
might generate, they don't care. There's another problem which is this. When
an image or video or any kind of media gets copied thousands or millions of
times, that copying doesn't tend to make us intelligent. It doesn't bring us
together. It rarely gives us outlooks and perspectives that we can use together
to become more intelligent, to make better choices and actually to effectively,
forcibly oppose the problems and the collectives and the forces that are
wiping us out, turning us into slaves, fleecing us and essentially repurposing
our humanity. That's what's going on here. Our actual human existence is being
repurposed invisibly for the benefit of corporations, the GOP, Facebook,
Google, fictional collectives that have no real existence other than as
corporations or corpse-orations. Corporations are a lethal kind of false
collective that we need to be extremely cautious about supporting in any way and
that we also need to be able to dissolve, punish or obliterate when they go haywire
and become lethal in their activities. When we share media, even a single image,
it has a cost that grows over time. As that piece of media is copied, shared,
as we pay attention to it and as we spend electricity and storage media to store
backup, transmit, share, but also to examine and analyze because as we know,
many governments now have intelligence assets that gather all of the things that
we share and they examine them to see if those things pose some kind of a threat.
Every time we're sharing any kind of media, the number of ways in which the
deadly costs of doing that increase grows. In other words, not just the costs
grow, but the numbers of ways in which those costs expand also grow. We need to
be very carefully aware of that and we also need some solutions to keep that
from continuing to happen because as more and more of us share electronic
images as part of our relationships online, we're actually building a giant
wave of data that just keeps growing geometrically with each passing
interval. Nature will not survive that. Our own cultures can't survive it. We are
already, you and I, competing against data objects for survival, for resources,
and for human attention and we are losing that competition. That's ridiculous. No
living being, especially not a human child, should ever have to compete against a
data object or the agenda of a false collective and lose. But that's what's
happening and no one's even paying attention. We're not even doing the
accounting. No one knows what it costs to share an image a thousand times. No one
knows how many human lives, what ecologies are destroyed, how many
thousands or millions of animals are destroyed, and believe me they are
because all of the things we do electronically have actual costs in the
environment. And part of those come from us paying attention and part of them
come from us paying energy and storage and protecting that data, backing
it up, analyzing, etc. And part of it comes from not doing something better
that actually does something amazing for us, which we certainly can do with these
assets. And I have a plan to demonstrate how we can explosively and
radically change all of this. But for the moment before I can get that plan into
action, I want us all to take a look at some of these situations. And there's
another very specific thing I want to talk about related to Facebook. There's a
gentleman who recently posted a video. You can look this up yourself. I will try
to find his name and link it to this one when I'm done. That talks about how the
algorithms that Facebook uses to decide what we see in our newsfeed are really
grossly misusing both our attention and our trust. And what that means is
Facebook is manipulating what's in the newsfeed so that we don't see each
other's shares. We don't see each other's posts. We don't see the posts that we
would like to see. What we're seeing are the posts that Facebook wants us to see
that will make them money. And also, they try to get us into a situation where
once we get some attention for the great deal of work that we do, many of us to
create useful and informative and even intelligent Facebook assets, instead of
rewarding us for that, they punish us. So what that means is, while Sustainable
Man, quote unquote, gets like 10 million pieces of likes and sharing each day, I
will get 30. And I'll post 20 to 30 creatively organized intelligent pieces
of information that empower people's intelligence and ways of thinking and
perspective. I'll get 20 likes. Sustainable Man who invests lots of money in
Facebook will get 100,000 likes on a single piece of media that is basically
meaningless. It's just another meme. It's been copied 50,000 times in 50,000
other places. Our intelligence won't survive that. Our relational intelligence
won't survive it. Our social network, the intelligence of our social networks is
being actually just sort of ground down into garbage by all of this. We're being
rewarded when we do the wrong things that support causes we oppose. And we're
being charged fees Facebook wants you to pay wants me to pay so that just a few
of my posts and posts of people who are actually content creators and are doing
something that could really make a difference. They want to make sure that
stuff doesn't get seen. They want to charge me to have just my own my own
social network see the posts that I'm posting. That's absolutely wrong. In
fact, functionally, that's evil. Seriously, that's just plain evil. And it
damages us because it rewards the wrong kinds of behaviors. It rewards the wrong
kinds of collectives. And it rewards absolutely the wrong kinds of content
for existing and being propagated. But there's something even a little scarier
going on. I subscribe to a lot of activist pages because I myself am an
intelligence activist. I'm very concerned about human intelligence and how we can
protect and enhance that in tightly knit little networks that grow and
consolidate and become explosively powerful. And I have some amazing plans
that I'm going to share with you about that, but not today. What I'm going to
talk about today and what I want to finish with here because I'm running out
of time. And thank you for staying with me this long is this on pages like
Mother Jones, Truth Out, and Alternate. What happens to these pages is very
interesting when you look at which portions of their output make it into
our news feeds. If you look at the actual pages of say, for example, Mother
Jones, you'll see a large array of various topics. And they post many news
items, excuse me, per day. Some of these are interesting. Some of them are
useful. But there are two problems with these pages. The first one is like
almost any modern journalistic endeavor, these pages make money and get
benefits when they get attention. And what this has resulted in is the wrong
kind of journalism. This is journalism that is basically spun to outrage,
upset, frighten and make us feel helpless, isolate us and get us to not
respond intelligently or with any kind of not respond with the ability to
unify and take advantage of our unity and our beliefs and our agreements in
order to make change. What happens instead is we get shock journalism. So
truth out, or excuse me, Alternate is actually the worst defender. We'll
constantly just post some piece of news items and say like, you're going to be
outraged by this. That's all they say. So they're just copying a news item from
somewhere else and then telling you what to do to be outraged. That's useless.
Actually, when we're frightened or outraged, our intelligence plummets.
There's a neurochemical process whereby we lose working memory, we lose access
to creativity, and we just become reactive. In that mode, we can easily be
made into slaves. And in fact, this is this is the kind of thing that is done
in prisons. So the first part of the problem is these quote unquote
activist organizations are not taking their role seriously or intelligently.
What they've done is they have become converted into shock journalism
outlets. That ruins our intelligence. It ruins our chance of affecting the
problems that they're pretending that they oppose. And then they make lots of
money because the more frightened and outraged we are, the more we will share
this kind of media, react to it like it and so on. Again, this takes a precious
investment that we might have made in change and flushes it down the toilet
into the car and actually makes money for them and for many of the forces that
they claim to be opposing like Facebook. Facebook is owned by people who
frankly don't care about us. They will punish you for attempting to make
friends. I currently cannot contact anyone who's not already my friend on
Facebook because I was punished for sending two friend requests to people
who liked my post. They made me sign. Maybe they signed me out of Facebook.
They made me sign back in and like a prisoner, they told me, you're not
allowed to make friends here. Okay. And not only that, because what you're
doing could be seen as harassment, sending friend requests to people who
like my posts. That does seem very harassing, doesn't it? There must be
something wrong with my mind. What was I thinking? On a social network, I was
trying to make a friend. Surely I should be imprisoned for this or even
tortured. Maybe fine. Who knows. Some kind of court case has to come out of it,
right? This is what's going on. We live in a situation where we're being
trained to act and respond and think like prisoners, essentially. The activist
pages that don't post material that empowers brings us together, organizes
our agreement, right, into a force that can be leveraged against the problems
that we need to solve and want to solve together against the forces that we do
not believe in, that we want brought down and transformed. Whenever they don't
help us do that directly, whenever they frighten us, whenever they tell us to
be outraged, whenever they paint us as victims, they are serving the enemies of
our humanity. They're serving the enemies of our human history and strife. They're
serving the enemies of life on earth and the enemies of our future. They're
serving the enemies of our intelligence and our unity. And our unity has more
power than any force on earth. If we can just organize a tiny portion of it, a
modest portion, say even 10% of the agreement that we could leverage right
now on any social network, we could change any nation on earth in 24 hours.
Maybe it would take a week, it would not take a month. Most of these activist
pages are doing the opposite of that. Every single post has nothing to do
really with protecting or saving anything. I want to just briefly touch on
one other issue, the petition, which actually means to be small as a force,
petite eye on. If you have to petition rapists to leave your daughter alone
and then hope that somehow some kind of result will come because the people who
are raping your daughter actually are getting intelligence and money from you
doing these petitions, you're gonna fail. If you have to petition
murderers to stop wiping people out, it's not gonna work. If you have to petition
corporations who don't even exist except as legal fictions to stop
obliterating the history and hope of life on earth and our living environments
from which our own minds emerge moment to moment, if you have to write petitions
asking them please don't wipe out the oceans, you'll be dead long before those
petitions will matter. So if you think that that's activism, you're confused.
I don't want you to stop signing petitions, go ahead and keep signing them.
But realize that that's nearly useless because what actually has to happen is
that some kind of a body who can leverage its agreement and power as a group
needs to confront those forces and stop them in their tracks immediately,
right now, stop them by any means necessary, hopefully by a peaceful means,
hopefully by an intelligent means that can transform them into something useful.
But if not, by any means necessary, they are wiping out life on earth, they are
staining the meaning of what it means to be a human being, they are changing the
nature of human intelligence with lies, and effectively we've got to stop them now.
This brings up the point that I'm going to touch on a false expert. So you've got false
activism, you've got people in science telling you your brain is a computer, dead wrong.
A single cell in your body has more computational power than all the computers
ever built by humanity. Your brain has nothing to do with computers, okay.
You've got religious authorities telling you that earth is a battleground ready for Armageddon,
or that it's a place we should have jihads, or even worse, the New Age people telling you like,
quantum physics means you can risk your way to a happy new world. You've got basically a whole
array of false collectives, each with their own agendas that are just as absurd as each other,
fighting to convert you to become their agents. We need to stop serving them,
and we need to tell them that we recognize that they're just fictions, that they're lying,
that they're not doing what they're claiming. There's nothing heroic about believing your
brain is a computer. There's nothing heroic about believing that the earth is a place you
just burn down so there can be an apocalypse, because you misunderstood sacred stories from
history. There's nothing heroic about the New Age people telling you that there's some kind of a
pleidian star command in the sky that's going to save us from our rampant stupidity. There's
nothing heroic about an activist organization that's just wearing the costume, okay. Those people
are lethally misguided and we have to correct them together now. Now here's the last point I want to
make. In those pages that actually do have some important content, and Mother Jones is one of
them, truth out is another, alternate, you can maybe find some of your own that you think are more
or less doing something actually valuable rather than just spinning electronic garbage at infinitum.
But in the ones that really are doing something, there's another problem which is this. If you
just watch which of their posts make it into the news feed, there's something very suspicious
going on. The posts that make it into the news feed are posts that support the agendas of Facebook,
the GOP, and Fox News. So that it actually starts to look like Mother Jones, 50% of their posts are
on Fox News. Or truth out, 50% of their posts are about the GOP or Fox News. When in fact, if you
look at their pages, maybe two to four percent of their posts are about that. But in the news feed,
which is governed by Facebook's algorithms, what actually leaks into the news feed from those
pages is only the stuff that's making Facebook money, that is actually acting as a platform of
support for the GOP, and that's constantly advertising for Fox News. What do you suppose
the effects of that are? Well, money. Facebook makes money. Fox News gets lots more attention and
money, and the GOP gets free publicity or even cash paid, paid advertising for themselves.
So we need to find ways, first of all, just as members of an electronic community, to protest
this and to disagree wildly, to talk about it constantly, and to enter into dialogue with each
other openly in a friendly, supportive manner that gives us new ways to organize our agreement
and leverage the power that we have in that agreement, and that power is unstoppable. Trust me.
We haven't even touched it, so that's why we're also afraid. We haven't touched any of the powers
of our human agreement or collectivity. We can do that, start doing it right now. The first sort of
steps of that process involve learning about the features of the environments that we're
interacting in, and that's part of what I'm doing here today, is trying to help us gain
some perspectives on that. Many of you will have your own ideas and perspectives, which I deeply
value and love to hear. Please, by all means, contact me. Let's work together. Let's cooperate.
Let's build community together, because that's the power we have with which we can change the
world. Before I go, I'm just going to pick out one authentic collective and show you the difference,
the Sea Shepherd Conservation Society. This is a collective organized by human beings
to rescue living intelligences older than the models that we have of time itself,
older than the universe, older than our idea of how old Earth is. These intelligences
are so irreplaceable that they're probably the single most valuable beings and places on the
planet. The Sea Shepherd Conservation Society is physically intervening in the slaughter of whales
by actually ramming their ships into illegal whaling vessels, shutting them down, telling the
whole world what they're doing, and taking part of the stain off of us. Because now, with a collective
that's truthfully organized, it's organized for an authentic, beautiful purpose, what happens is we
can then see that to be human means to protect beautiful intelligent beings. The Sea Shepherd
Conservation Society is one of the authentic collectives on Facebook that I want to encourage
you to absolutely support, copy their media, add your own intelligence, cooperate with them.
What they're doing is a bold example of the power of human agreement in plain,
simple understanding of the crucial importance of our ecologies, the history of life on Earth,
our capacity to protect each other, our humanity, and our future. Now that looks like activism,
and that looks like intelligence, and that is something that our children in the future
will be proud of. We need a lot more of that kind of collective. We need none of the other kinds,
together, with and for each other, in the future of life on Earth. I thank you for joining me. Bye-bye for now.
