I'm standing in the sun, in a monarch butterfly, it's just flown by me, I haven't seen one
this year. I'm not sure when the last time I saw one in person was, and I was worried
and feeling nervous and frightened as I often do before I have to improvise. But most of
the greatest ideas began with improvisation, and most of the greatest acts of human generosity
and beauty, intelligence and relation are improvisation. We don't know what to do, we
didn't know ahead of time. Afterwards we often don't even understand how we did it, as if we
had a kind of special dream while awake, and came back with some kind of treasure, but a treasure
that's not a commodity, a treasure that becomes ourselves and each other in our world, and it's
history and future. Lately I think a lot about the idea, the metaphor, but not just the metaphor,
the metonym of a compass, because when we navigate in the world we have to know things,
and we used to have to know north and south ourselves,
and east and west to some degree ourselves, and then a compass would help us
re-correct that if we got confused. In our time when we find our way around the world
often with the aid of machines and satellites, it's more of a cloud particle situation where
you have coordinates, and they're not really connected to anything,
they're connected to a world map, and machines, and a very analytical, that is disembodied
position of orientation and orienteering.
This is very dangerous because our minds become new minds very quickly.
They transform rapidly. They're so flexible that they'll throw faculties away to work better in
a domain of smaller dimensions, and we can't tell when we're throwing faculties away. We can't tell
when our technologies that appear to be conveniences
are changing us in ways we would never agree to, that we'll change what it means to be a human,
to have a mind, to be intelligent, to be capable of relation,
and many other things in our metabolism and the actual physical structure of our brains.
Originally, living places were a memory. You didn't have to have a memory. Your memory was
associated with living beings and living places in every domain in particular with no exception.
There was no abstract position of relation at all. So living reality in relation was its own
compass. You made a mistake. You were immediately corrected in 12 ways by living environments
and living relationships. Now we have something else, and it's very confusing,
and the living compass inside us, which is difficult to speak about,
because it can work in any dimension, any domain or multiple dimensions and domains at once,
and it can even work with pure novelty. It can work with things it's never seen before,
orient here in domains that the mind is useless in, the thinking mind is useless in,
not only useless, dangerous in. In novel situations, the thinking mind is not very useful. So if most
of reality is novel, then the thinking mind has a very narrow framework in which
its peculiar faculties and assets remain assets and faculties, and in domains beyond the boundary
of where they are applicable, they are no longer assets. And since these domains are not easily
seen, we don't have eyes in the places I'm talking about, we can't really tell the repercussions
of our moves, in the present or in the future. And even with our thinking minds and analytical
minds, we're not very good at this in general, as we can see just by watching how humans play
with representation in all the different ways they do it, and what the results of that play are
as cultures and repercussions of systems of thinking, systems of analysis and comparison
evaluation, cataloging, relating data. For machines, all data is dead data, it's just numbers,
your coordinates have no meaning. Your body, however, is entirely different than that,
and everything in nature is different from that. Everything, all the way down to electromagnetism,
I mean, so the verbal fictions fall away, if you just look at physical reality immediately,
you can see everything's guy orientation, and it's fundamental, and there's many different
domains of it for any phenomenon we care to distinguish with thinking and ask questions about.
But inside us, there's a place where there should be a living compass, and for most of us,
it's either missing, buried under layers of confusion and language and rules and ideas,
answers to questions, religions, sciences, declarations, authorities, responsibilities,
jobs, proclamations, time constraints, ways of thinking, it's buried.
And from under all that mess, it doesn't know what to do or be.
And so the person themselves, if they can be called a person, because a disoriented person
is disoriented and often disorienting, will really only be able to function in context
that can absorb the damage of that. Unfortunately for our species, the environment
can absorb a lot of damage, so we can offload the results of every kind of incredible duplicitous,
insane, ironic activity and idea, and still call it success because we survived it. Well, we did.
But we hid the damage in 50 places in nature and each other and ourselves,
in our own origins and future. So we actually didn't survive except in any,
except in a kind of really abstract sense. We're still here. The body that had the idea
wasn't killed by enacting it. In nature, you can't do that. In nature, try to do that
living in the woods by yourself in a hut or even with a small group. Try to make a really
bad mistake, it'll sting you right away and you'll have to lie about it to pretend that you didn't
cause it. And so this is a very peculiar feature of what happens when the compass is lost.
When the compass is lost in ourselves or in our cultures or when it's counterfeited
or replaced with layers of counterfeits which are often critical or judgmental, accusatory,
prosecutorial, then it's impossible for anything to orient and the results just become rolling waves
of self-amplifying catastrophe and actual stupidity, things we would never do because
we've gone absent. We're missing from our culture. We're missing from ourselves. We're
largely missing from each other. And where have we gone? Well, that's sort of an interesting
question, but largely into structures and thinking and frameworks and words and rules and
schemas of behavior, fictions of association, responsibility, activity, work, rushing.
But what I want to talk about is actually a related topic. I want us to keep this
this idea of the compass at hand and the difference between, for example, holding
a compass in your hand, having one with you all the time so that when you walk around,
rather than say a cell phone, no an actual compass with a physical compass,
not an electronic one, so that when you walk around you can see the magnet in the compass
changes. And you'll know which direction is north and south and east and west.
And you'll have some idea physically in your mind and your body when you travel
that you're changing orientations, which is something that GPS coordinates won't give you.
Not that you can't put north, south, east and west around them,
but the problem is that the coordinates have precedence and are mechanical.
And your relationship with north, south, east and west is actually physical. It's not an idea.
So how do we orient and what are all these fake compasses that are layered on top of ours?
And how does this all get set up? There's a lot of different ways to talk about it,
but a toy I want to use here is an amphitheater. Because over time as children,
we learn to assemble something like a coliseum. And it has, you know, in my model in the toy I'm
making of it, this isn't real. We're just making a toy of something like maybe how we feel inside
or sometimes how we see. It's like there are rings of people around us watching us. And we imagine
them. So that even when we're in a room, we might imagine our friend or our parent either with us
or thinking through something with them or imagine conversations. We might recall a conversation.
We might imagine ourselves being seen and seeing another or others, especially in the play of
children. We've often heard a child declare mommy, mommy, watch me, watch me. And there's
something very beautiful and profound and unusually intelligent and instructive happening in that
signal. The child is authentically demonstrating that, and not just in the sense of an actor or a
performer, but in a really deeply relational sense, when we're together, we are much more.
And when the child feels his mother watching and enjoying his learning and his growth in his play
or hers, they both exchange and receive and amplify a benefit for which we have no name,
but it becomes intelligence and it becomes true relation. So there's a compass orientation in there
which is that we develop really beautifully and at a very accelerated pace
in an environment where we imagine ourselves surrounded by positive encouraging
not merely spectators, but people who are participating in our development as if our
development is their development is our development. So that it's not an economy where
one person's teaching and one person's learning, but it's more as if there's a person in a circle
of people, small say seven people. And this person is perhaps on the stage at the moment doing and
learning the tasks, but all of the people in the ring are learning together, even if one of them
appears to be leading and some appear to be following. That will change in a moment and a
new person will enter the center or the root pivot of the compass. And so it's as if we make a kind
of compass inside ourselves, isn't it, of imagined spectators. And this is so provocative and powerful
that modern internet technology has taken advantage of this and reified it in incredibly crude
and dangerously purposed constructs that we call social networks.
And like our GPS devices, these are trans hygienic. They reforge our minds when we relate with them.
They're much, much more powerful than a drug. And they're at least as provocatively addictive,
but in ways that permanently change our behavioral and relational structures and don't appear
superficially as a deadly or dangerous intoxicant or developmental peril.
But for many people, they are and will be. For many people, their experience of using machines
in the internet will reforge their inner amphitheaters and put in there things that should never be in
there. Authorities surveilling their every typed word and analyzing their every spoken word
in every communication that they make in every context. What happens if you put that authority
in the inner amphitheater? What happens? What happens down where the play takes place?
What if you're always recording a child and it always knows it's always being recorded?
Will it become human? Can it? What happens when you replace a living observer
with a mechanical observer that represents not just one fictional collective or authority,
but any possible fictional collective or authority for any possible purpose?
What happens when we do that? I want to preserve this question very provocatively.
So what is the whole idea of the Sanctuary? Well, long ago, it was really interesting mountains
were really, really important to everyone. And we traveled to and up and around them.
At least some of our peoples did. And most of our religions actually come almost all of them from
mountain people experiences. The Bible has to do with a particular mountain on earth one.
It's the experience of one people of that mountain and much more indeed than that mountain.
But it's a physical place. It's not a story far away, right? It happened on this mountain. It is
about this mountain. This is the special mountain of all mountains. And each of the places on earth,
there were mountains like this and the people made things like mountains and like inverted
mountains and the mountains were orienting points on a compass. But it wasn't a compass like you
and I have ever seen. It was a compass of such incredible intelligence and sophistication that
would be very, very difficult for us who think in terms of technology frameworks to imagine anything
like it. It was a non-ordinary compass of impossible and beautiful sophistication of living compass.
It led to a door in the sky. That door is still there. But what happened in the cities was different.
What happened in the cities was they forgot about the mountains.
And they started making both representations of mountains and representations of the inversion
of mountains, amphitheaters. And amphitheaters were understood as a cone that would call the door,
the spirit gods, down from the sky in a conical ring, which is why the seats are arrayed that way
concentrically, inwardly from above to the bottom in some amphitheaters. It also provides
excellent viewing opportunities of the stage from a circle. Rarely were they composed in squares.
Not never, but it's less common. In any case, the idea was an inverted mountain, right,
that would actually call down like a feminine version of a mountain, the gods and the people,
not just the gods, but the spirits of origin, the sun, the moon, the stars,
the ancient spirit of life on all the worlds would invite it down to become us.
And the people in the center, whatever was happening, would become
transformed. And this cone would focus all of the attention of the sky and all of history,
of all of time, all the beings, all of nature, all of mankind, the past and the future,
would focus it down to this point where, quote, the action would take place.
Now, this meant very different things in very different contexts, and some of those things
were completely ridiculously absurd. But long ago, before all this was corrupted,
the idea was actually really interesting. And by the way, there are two sorts of kinds
of amphitheater, right? One, where all the people and rings are arrayed above someone,
for example, down on the field. And this is how our minds usually simulated. There are rings of
authorities, culture, religion, perhaps parents, and there are both, there's like a good amphitheater
and a bad amphitheater, or the amphitheater has both kinds in it, right? It's got good critics
and evil critics, good encouragers and evil encouragers. So it's spotted, it's cloudy,
this amphitheater with dark and light elements. And since they're not real people necessarily,
they're mostly figments in a kind of psyche, right? They're real people in our lives,
but when we feel the effects of the amphitheater, it's usually that we're
simulating it in our hearts or our psyche, whether we see it directly or not.
Whether this is an image in us or not, we feel, oh, these people are watching me,
or I'm being observed, or does she see me? We're curious about who's watching all the time,
when we're just in life. But when we're in thought, the amphitheater is much more real.
And none of us were taught that we make minds, we develop minds in psyches,
humanity and or intelligence, if it's possible for us. In direct relation with this idea,
right, this metaphor, this metonym, that represents our relationship with history,
nature, all the humans we've ever met, all the cultures we've encountered,
all the critics and encouragers, and all the strangers.
So originally, before there was an amphitheater, there was something really amazing.
Without any specific necessary religion, or ritual, people would make circle.
And they would know that in making the circle half or small, and usually probably was relatively
small, especially long ago, they would first imagine that all of the sky and all of the
history of life on earth was coming to live in them now, coming to join them now. So they would
see and feel, think and be the living spirit and memory of all of that history, and all of the
history of the people, all of it, not just theirs, all of it, and all of the history of the sky and
the animals, and all of the history of the living places, and all the history of the people and
beings they had known and loved, their enemies, their friends, everything, was in circle now,
as if they'd been invested with the spirit themselves, each one of them uniquely and yet
completely. And from this position, perhaps one or two or three might enter the center
and began to orient and reorient, or to seek something, an answer to question or to play,
to just play, to be human. But what was in the amphitheater wasn't spectators,
and what was in the center wasn't actors. The center became the soul of the ring,
and elements from the center would depart into the ring, and elements from the ring would rise
into the center, and we had a living compass. And when we made the circle, we knew this is
what we were really doing in every other thing, and so the circle became a compass, and not a courtroom,
and not a battlefield, not a circle of judges and critics,
but rather something intelligent like a hand, that in reconnecting with the signals coming
across the wrist into it, the signals of its own origin, the signals of its own intelligence.
They wanted to make sure the hand didn't become disconnected from that wrist,
and start telling stories, and counterfeit the circle, and disorient the compass, and then lay
one disoriented compass on top of another, and top of another, just like we see in many ancient
cities, where they had both pyramids, and probably amphitheaters, or something like
them, where the pyramids were the amphitheater. You can make a reverse amphitheater, right?
You just put the sacrifice, or the being that's about to be made divine, by being destroyed
for everyone at the top. Now, the figure I just made is a bit crude, but in the cities,
what you got were representations of the compass that we used to make and be together
when we lived in and on the land, with and for each other, the history and future of life on
earth, which is the only real way we can be human. Even if we're living in cities, we can live this
way to some degree, and we can still orient this way together, and remember how. But what happened
was the people in the cities, their compasses didn't work, and the people who were roaming around on
the outside just follow me and pretend I'm talking about the Bible, or the Native American Indians,
or the South American Indians, because it happened in similar, if different, ways on each continent.
The people who were roaming around had a living skybook, and the people inside the
cities had a dead skybook. And so, the people who were roaming around had a living relationship
with time, which is much stranger than anyone in the cities can ever hope to imagine, and much
stranger than physics, and alive, and light, which is the same, and all of living places in every
organism, every creature, they knew them intimately, not categorically, not abstractly, as parts, not
as parts, as aspects of themselves. And they knew that each thing they saw lived inside them,
not theoretically, not like us, not like we might think that or make a religion about it.
So they could orient and were oriented in living relation, but inside the cities,
all the compasses went bad.
Real bad. And the cities had to wipe out and dominate any open terrain just to keep themselves
running, right, just to kill enough animals and make enough grain, and cut enough stone and feed
enough slaves to build that pyramid and build that amphitheater. And what's in that pyramid,
one person? The entire civil defense budget of the United States was spent to protect one man.
One man. In other countries,
the civil defense budget is spent to protect every single person, every person,
there's a nation, I'm not sure which one at the moment, it could be Sweden or Scandinavia,
Norway, forgive me for having forgotten. And I may not have even, it may be a country I didn't
mention, but one of the one of the nations near those has a civil defense plan. It's
astonishing, every person has a shelter in their house, and they go to each other's houses and
shelter with each other all the time, so that really, and they have like hospitals built inside
mountains, right, it's all hidden, you can't see any of it on the outside, but the whole culture
has incredible resources so that if anything ever happened at all, anything, not only would everyone
be protected, but everyone could protect each other and would because they practiced doing that all
the time. So they have a compass, and the compass is each other, it's not a fiction. And if their
government were to become tyrannical, they wouldn't have a chance against their people.
Now I wouldn't even have the opportunity to try to hurt them, they're so strong and so unified,
but if their government went haywire in any way, the government would have a very, very difficult
time imposing any kind of tyrannical authority on these people at all under any conditions.
They are independent because they are interdependent, and without that interdependence, they can't be
independent, they're just isolated. And under those cities, you're going to find,
of many cases, older cities buried where they did the same thing and it didn't work,
and it wiped them out. In every case, it wiped them out. And it took a lot of nature and other
living beings with them because these cities, they need slaves, man.
And you know where they get them? From the people who aren't in the cities.
They get them from the people on the land, especially a long time ago, so they would just
go capture whole tribes of people and enslave them to build pyramids and amphitheaters and things,
huge statues. And they'd enslave these people for hundreds of years and every once in a while,
they'd escape and write a skybook, like for example, the Jews did.
So you can see that the whole amphitheater thing becomes an inward construct in our psyches.
We build an amphitheater of dead critics and imaginary authorities that don't exist at all,
they're all fictions. And then trying to understand ourselves or orient ourselves inside an amphitheater
where all from above were being constantly crushed and misdirected and laughed at and
criticized and lied about and lied at and declared to, which begins in childhood,
with the shadow that is probably our first encounter of the shadow,
our first encounter with the shadow of culture, which often is going to happen in our parents
and siblings first. It's going to happen real close to home before we get a taste of the
actual complexity and impossible threatening danger of what we presently call culture and
our relationships with language, knowledge, identity and intelligence. And nowhere will we
be given any authentic orienteering hope. We're going to have to preserve it almost alone if we're
going to have any or invent it, which is of course what we're going to have to do now together.
But for most of us, we just establish a really terrifying amphitheater of critics and
for some of us, life becomes nothing but that. Critics and judges. And then, you know,
we can see ourselves directing this at others. I can certainly see this in myself.
But there's a different kind of amphitheater that you can make. You can make an amphitheater like
the old one inside yourself. You can replace the crappy courtroom of the endless concentric rings
of deadly and pernicious, nonsensical, grumpy, lying, analytical authorities
with the living compass of your heart and true relationships with yourself, your dreams,
being alive, consciousness, intelligence, learning, growth, development. What's going on here behind
and underneath all these overlays is so terrifyingly beautiful. We're actually afraid to get a taste of
it and would prefer, for example, orgasm or a psychedelic experience, thank you.
But that's because if we were to get a taste of it, especially together,
it would be so provocatively, unremittingly exciting and beautiful
that our relationships with language and identity, knowledge and culture, wouldn't be able to survive
it very long, even if we were still within them. And we can do that now, together, just by understanding
some of the features of how our relationships with representations, ideas, figures in our minds,
language, thought, rules, authority are confused and reorienting together.
We can learn what it means to inhabit the circle, rather than be subject to it, or invented by it.
And we can learn what it means to inhabit and have meaningful roles and agency in intelligent
unities, rather than duplicitously toxic fictions. I know it sounds almost impossible or shocking or
like, if they could have done this before they would have. No, it's not true and many did and died.
Beautifully doing this. We've remembered some tiny portion of them, but most of them are
traceless in history. And that's, in some sense, more beautiful than if we remembered them and more
true. They live in the spirit of possibility, unspoken in language or form, unframed in
representation. They live in the promise of our human birth, an actual orientation in
relationships with nature, which are beyond anything science or religion has dared to suggest.
So the promise is of a frontier of our humanity that's been buried, a frontier of human potential
and intelligence that's getting buried in new ways and new dimensions. It's inventing new ways
to bury itself each moment. And we can become subject to this or we can become human, alive.
We can make the living compass inside us and we can replace the amphitheater with the history of
life on earth. The history of life on earth is with us and singing with our own mouths,
moving with our own legs and hands. The history of all the people, all their dreams,
all the mothers, all the fathers, every child that was ever born is alive in you right now listening.
The history of time space, all the beings, the sky, origin itself, the stars, the sun, the moon is
watching. In that bird you hear in the background, we're touching the origins of life on earth this
instant. It's not enough to think about relationships or time or light or physics.
It's not enough to make frameworks that tell us what intelligence looks like
because any such framework is immediately self-conflicting.
Above all frameworks with and for each other, learning and growing, discovering what it means
to be and become human together, inventing it, improvising it, beautifully, truly for purposes
that matter, that are in our hearts and in nature, will become a compass.
We can't live without it and the substitutes don't work.
When we disappear into a pure relation for a beautiful purpose, such as learning or seeing
and discovery or solving a deadly problem together, then we begin to discover what it means to be
individuals because only then are we surrounded and contexted, encompassed by and feeling viscerally
alive and real and not made of thoughts and ideas and functions.
The spirit of our birth is heroic by nature. It wants to be true and amazing and noble and human,
intelligent, articulate, skillful, creative, playful. It's desperate for a context in which
to authentically personate, to be born. Instead we have a kind of fake shelf self that we wear
around that is mostly the armor that allows us to survive contact with the constructs and some
kind of whatever inner amphitheaters we may or may not have assembled.
So I'd like to think of this as an invitation to remember and discover other ways that are older
and true or compasses that work and minds that are oriented in relation and nature and intelligence
and learning rather than in declaration tyranny, compression, depersonalization and which are
themselves depersonating which then require we impersonate something since we've been
depersonated in the hell. So we can't live this way and I'd like to think of this as an invitation
which I hear in the song of the burdened background. To personally and communally rediscover
a human art of orienteering together in life, in language, in the constructs and everything we do
and to bring some living spirit back into the center of that ring and back into its constituents
and to dismiss the fictional authorities, to dismiss them from our inner theater
where often to ourselves we play as some aspect of our minds plays as if to an audience and receives
its suggestions or praise or criticisms or derision, joyful laughter or cruel laughter.
I'd like to dismiss all those fictional authorities and judges and inner senses
and clear the amphitheater. Let's put something beautiful and true there that we trust together.
Let's learn how now. Perhaps today we've made a beginning, tomorrow we shall go four times further
and the day after that forty and so on and so forth and so far.
