We've often heard the question, what is a self?
What is the self?
Who am I?
And we've had this question lots of different ways.
I was listening to Krishnamurti addressing such a question recently, it was humorous to
watch him.
In the garden that I'm observing, a rat is carefully scurrying between some bushes.
And the wind is moving the leaves of the trees.
And all of the garden is moving, each aspect, uniquely, almost musically.
The self isn't anything.
In fact, what we might say is nothing to get too concerned about, or even just, not
really there that way.
But that's saying too much, too simply.
One thing we can notice is that whatever the self might be, there's the rat again scurrying
between protected positions in a living calendar interrupting me, alive in the sunlight.
I'm outside of a box, even though I'm in the structure of it, it's framing all around
me and in my mind.
I can see the garden, I'm with the garden, in the past and the future, a little fly.
I am here, but who am I?
What is my self?
Well in every frame that I bring or encounter, real or fictional, imagined, linguistic, analytical,
how I will be will change dramatically, and find a loan in a box.
I may be disoriented for all the time and around me is dead and the movement is, what
is the movement?
What is moving in a box?
To what rhythms does it move, what music does it obey?
Where does it originate?
So whatever a self might be, who am I, isn't really a question that's very meaningful without
a framework.
And if we have a fictional or linguistic framework, the question suddenly is connotated by that
framework so that if I'm drinking a cup of tea and writing a concerto, that will change
very suddenly if there is an earthquake.
Or if the doorbell rings or the text comes on a device, if I hear a sound like a child
crying or a bell, my self will change.
So who am I is a process of changing in relation with what we could think of as frameworks and
I think that these frameworks often dominate us and sort of exclude the possibility of
a self and so we're left asking who am I in a conflict of largely fictional frameworks
and boxes and screens and electronic signals, fictional imperatives, fictional collectives
based on language and commerce and structured, quote, society, unquote, what we are and do
together.
Apparently believing there is nothing else or little else we could or should or are capable
of doing sometimes.
And so this question, who am I, comes already from a place of something's missing.
If it weren't, the question is almost the evidence of its departure, parting problem
and some framework, there's a question, who am I?
But what's interesting is the relationship between the question
and the one presenting it.
Or even the question who are you, for we then imagine that someone might be able to tell
us who they are.
Of course we mean perhaps give me some pivots around which to imagine who you might be and
be becoming so that I may have some to determine perhaps almost in thought who I should be
and be becoming in relation with you.
So now we find out that not only are the cells not discrete things existing, but actually
they discover what to be and become together according to many complex variables.
So that were there really cells there before they met?
Of a kind maybe, we might call it habits of persisting across gaps.
We had habits of maintaining a self-like quality outside of actual relationships and nature
each other and true developmental activity.
We sort of built little boats that we could climb in and go across these gaps.
The gaps in all the different aspects of our lives, our work, our sleep, our food, our
relationships with others, the depth or truth of them, the conflicts, the joys, the victories,
the losses, the births and deaths, etc.
The days, the hours, the minutes, all the gaps.
So that a self quote unquote is essentially a kind of slapped together vehicle to survive
and cross between gaps in all kinds of frameworks that aren't real mostly or are conflicted
with the real five ways to Sunday and in which we participate or feel we must or are compelled
to we whoever that we is.
So there's something confusing going on there.
But there's some tropes that can kind of help us out.
So the first thing is that I think our language confuses us about what it means to be separate.
We seem to think that the separateness is the true part.
And then we add the connection maybe.
And in everything in nature and reality, physics and everywhere, something else is true.
Which is that unity descends into orders of apparent distinction that are new forms of
unity in distinction.
And some of these are so elaborate that you get living planets down there somewhere in
the process and within those you get minds with questions.
So there's something quite amazing going on and if we wanted to make a bucket like model
of it we could somewhere in the dimension that we'll call origin put a conical upside
down bucket and in rings around that bucket we'll put holes, maybe in a spiral.
And some kind of water pours into that bucket and down here you get universes which pour
into galaxies, which pour into star systems and black holes and other fascinating phenomenon.
And then you get our star and its whole history, the whole history of the formation of this
part of the galaxy, our star itself, its whole birth process, the formation of the solar
system, the origins of the earth and the moon and the planets and there was quite a very
big adventure there.
You can be sure, one that is not yet over, that we are participating in and as.
And then you get the earth and then you get life on earth and then you get all of the
different species and the evolutionary epochs and the cataclysms and the moments of vast
opportunity when life leapt forward and became vastly diverse and astonishing.
And then you get our people showing up and then you get the entire history of mankind
within that bubble of life and the universe and time space, origin and then you get me,
our people this time, you and I, our minds, our bodies, our own hands.
So if my hand was to wonder who am I, that would be like me wondering who am I.
I am a hand of all of those, my body even looks like a hand.
It's a lot, our bodies are very hand like, it looks like we might be the hands of something
if you just looked at us walking around.
We don't normally see this but artists do.
Anyone who understands the anatomy of the hand and then compares it without the body
will immediately see astonishing, shall we say, perspectives on how the unique ways that
holes don't have parts.
And so since we aren't really parts, we don't really have a self.
In fact, we don't have things.
My hand is holding something right now but it doesn't have it.
In fact, fascinatingly, my hand doesn't have anything.
And a self is like that.
The problem with a self is it's invisible so it's a kind of a hand that once it grasps
something it thinks, oh I'm that, I can grasp it.
Now I've got that, got that packed away, I know what I am.
I know what to be.
Well, when a hand is grasping a tool, it knows what to do.
Or we know what to do.
We know we're directing our hands, right?
So we know what to do with it, hopefully.
Many tools are very compelling.
They can tell hands what to become.
They can tell hands and people what to become.
A paintbrush is such a tool.
A paintbrush creates new minds, new bodies, new ways of being selves.
So too does a knife.
A sewing needle with which we create clothing or tapestries with which we might bind together
or wound is a very special way of being a hand and becoming ourselves.
So when the hand is holding something and we are driving it, right?
We are there, we are alive, we are human, hopefully intelligent.
We become kind of what we're doing with our hands as even I am to some degree now.
But I don't possess any of those things.
There's no self to possess having done them.
The hand doesn't own anything.
And even if I wear a ring, right, which is kind of a self for the hand, isn't it?
Something that's conserved over every interval of action, yeah?
If I wear a ring on my hand, this doesn't tell my hand what it is.
But interestingly, our marriage rings say that our hands are for one another, our hands
are bonded.
This is not just one hand you see here.
This is the hand of a union.
It's here within for as and from in hope and joy and wonder and protection of this union.
And this, now we are getting close without having to wear any rings.
Our self is the recognition of the unities of origin, nature, descent, not in language
or mathematics or physics, though in an intellectual way there and in logic.
No, no, in being, the living recognition before all fictions of our nature.
This is only itself in relation.
And in relations that are disoriented or oriented around boxes and fictions, frameworks and
language, declarations, religion, formal declarations of identity and value.
The self has to be counterfeited as to make up rings.
The hand of our being must make up rings and conserve and protect and defend and make new
ones and so on.
So if you want to ask what is the self, really you're saying it's the one who keeps making
those rings to get across gaps that are uninhabitable in a sense and they're empty of beings.
They're words and fictions and ideas and structures and so on, algorithms and things.
There's something kind of funny which is when I was a kid, the early Warner Brothers cartoons
were very popular, meaning in the circle all of the elements found them exciting and funny.
There were intelligent objections.
The most intelligent I've ever heard was from Fred Rogers before I believe a Senate subcommittee
and I encourage anyone listening to watch Fred Rogers' speech to I think the Senate.
It's brilliant and human.
And there is an excellent example of someone becoming brilliant and human on the spot in
the moment in a courtroom even.
But we used to watch the Warner Brothers cartoons a lot and some of you will be familiar with
Wiley Coyote and Roadrunner or Bugs Bunny and some of his cohort, Daffy Duck, Porky Pig,
Elmer Fudd, the usual suspects.
And of all of them Roadrunner is kind of the best and most pure in one sense, the sense
I want to point at, that Wiley Coyote is the explicit not catching of Roadrunner.
He doesn't get it.
Wiley Coyote is a joke the Roadrunner is playing on itself.
And so the idea that the Coyote is going to capture and eat its own origin is incredibly
hilariously ridiculous when you watch this try to play out and it's much like the mind
with which we form the question, who am I?
It's the Wiley Coyote mind.
It thinks it's going to somehow capture and maybe manipulate, hold on to its own origin.
So if you think you could do that, you can just roll up your right sleeve, if you've
got a sleeve, and hold up your empty right hand and attempt to grab your right wrist
with your right hand and go for it and see how that works out.
As long as you do that, it could probably be kind of funny because it just, no matter
what you do, it's not going to work and you might be able to develop a prosthesis that
would allow that, but even should you accomplish that, the result will be ridiculous and hilarious
and maybe some kind of abstract art object.
So Wiley Coyote builds all kinds of machines and plans and plots to try to capture the
Roadrunner who's essentially dreaming him.
And as you can imagine, because you've probably tried to capture a dream, maybe so that you
could bring it to life in the world somehow or show someone else what it is, it doesn't
work.
Others don't have the structure of things we can transmit, they don't have this nature.
And the self is much like this, and Bugs Bunny is a similar jest.
It's almost as if Porky Pig and Daffy Duck are in many cases creatures he's dreaming.
And so he kind of knows he's lucidly dreaming them.
And this is true of the Roadrunner as well, the Roadrunner is lucidly dreaming the Coyote
that's chasing him.
This is far more profound than it appears.
If you haven't seen Roadrunner and Coyote cartoons, Wiley Coyote and the Roadrunner,
I encourage you to watch one or two to get the flavor of it so that you'll understand
how it is to think I have a self and want to know what that is.
Truly the self originates in an activity that we don't really have a name for.
It isn't dreaming, but this is probably the closest thing in our language to quote where
we're coming from, unquote.
So it's a flowing process, and how we will articulate that flow will modulate radically
depending on what we think we're supposed to do, as if there were a book of supposed
to have written somewhere by a couple of Italian guys or something, and how we think
of what others think we may be thinking or doing and such and on in this.
A kind of internal fictional amphitheater, because actual others are missing.
So we, like children who have no friends, we invent a kind of a fictional amphitheater.
We don't actually belong to any true collective.
So we either have to invent a fictional one inside ourselves kind of ongoingly, as thought
and thinking even, in part.
Or we do something more wonderful than that, and we have, I don't know what to call it,
we have a unity within where each of the elements is within four, the other elements.
And perhaps nature and learning, intelligence, wonder, origins, discovery.
So we wouldn't really want to become the road runner while we're awake.
That would just be dreaming.
No, the goal is, I guess, not a goal.
And has a lot to do with inhabiting a position of union with the history and the origins
of our world, minds themselves, nature, living ecologies, the history of humanity, in its
actual real aspect, us, and every living thing that we relate and see, ignore, classify,
dissect, analyze, sell.
Instead.
So a position in relation, true relation, in constant recognition of origin coming into
being, which essentially looks like children, all of them, every living place and thing.
But together, one union with endless, astonishing members, each of whom reflect each other, each
of whom is with and for each other, in a continuum, flowing into us now.
That recognition is so vitalizing and so overwhelming, and so beautiful and creative
and prodigious and intelligent, that nothing else can become it.
It is unbecoming to do anything else.
And of course, in relation with the structures and the boxes and the cities and the culture
and the dead calendars and such, the watches, tick-tock, it can be difficult to preserve
a sense of orientation.
And yet, ironically, it's much more difficult not to.
And all the things that happen when we don't, to ourselves and our minds and others, with
whom we are here, for whom we are here, are far worse than if we could do the small amount
of work and struggle to pierce the membrane a little bit, to bring something true through
from within, from union, from unity, beyond all the fictions, just as a hand of the history
of human hope, and wonder, adoration, and possibility.
And that's a self we can't define, and every definition impoverishes it.
Yet, we can learn to remember and see, play, and become many different ways from anything
we've seen, things that don't become religions, but arts of our humanity, and a relationship
in and as nature.
A hand is not what it holds, but a self can become very confused and think it is that
upon which it has some grasp.
Well, if you travel up the wrist, hopefully, where the grasp of that hand is originating,
there is a living, flowing, endlessly ancient, astonishingly eternal, and unimaginably intelligent.
Hmm, what is there, it is not a fire, it is, it is an incarnation of all of the orders
and histories and lineages of origin.
It is not one incarnation, right?
But like we might even imagine, the flower, a carnation, with all its many petals flowing
into being, that is incarnating, it is an incarnating incarnation.
But in the soul and consciousness, the self is kind of a ghost, and one of the things
that's most useful to have some direct awareness of is that in some way the waking self is
a joke.
It's a bit of a jest that the soul of our being is having on with us while awake, and
it's quite astonishing when one has the actual experience of recognizing this.
Yet this is the implication of the cartoons, that actually the waking self is a very sophisticated
learning playground for the dreaming soul.
This is a beautiful and hilarious thing to recognize, and is the source of many of the
things that we find humor in, because the dreaming self has a very different take on
identity and relation, and it's always with us while we're awake, so that when we suddenly
see from a radically new angle, there's the experience of humor.
This is almost the dreaming self recognizing, or the waking self recognizing that it had
been dreaming in a way all along, and suddenly someone has come and highlighted a path or
a route that links the features by which it can see, of course I always knew that, or
I've laughed about that inside but never said anything, or I've seen something similar
myself, quote unquote myself, yet we see truly within for each other.
Then we can remember to see within for the history and future of life on earth, first
and our humanity within that gentle union.
Then we will begin to see, we will learn what it means to have eyes, for until then we will
see with what we're grasping, what we're holding onto, and as you can imagine the hand-like
eyes of the mind are easily confused by that which can be grasped in concept language form,
or thought.
They begin to see that reality is what can be grasped, and yet this is the opposite of
any meaningful way of being ourselves.
The arts of the intellect are all valuable and pure in and of themselves, none of them
are implicitly lethal, and yet when they escape their confines and begin to declare reality
or identity, value or relationship to us, then they have become lethal, and then the
grasp is not a living grasp at all but a kind of a death grip.
So we can release the idea of a self, we can let go and just like our hands have no possessions,
all the things our hands can do, they have no way to possess them, they have no place
to possess them, and the self is much like this, yet while awake it is hand-like as if
the fingertips are eyes, it forgets it has a wrist and starts chasing.
Something like completeness, yet its origin is in, a living, intelligent incompletingness,
as much as it is in anything that can or may be preserved across gaps.
