Hey everybody.
I was just thinking about a constellation of related perspectives about being human.
After listening to one of the Mind Matters podcasts in which they are interviewing a
scholar on preeminent Sufi mystic, Ibn Arabi, and I was both profoundly excited and at the
same time kind of troubled by how deeply I could relate with the topics they pursued.
I cannot remember the man's name, the scholar's name.
One of the topics that arose in the conversation was a snippet of advice that has essential
resonance in the path of development they were speaking about.
And it's a strange piece of advice on the surface, and we might be inclined to dismiss
it as abrahimic, or to in some other way characterize it for dismissal, which I think
would be a mistake, and I'll explain why.
The piece of advice was never forget that you are a servant, and what this turns out
to mean is extremely complex and not like what it sounds on the surface.
And yet, there is a way in which it has a likeness with how it sounds.
The reason it's complex is because what is meant is non-ordinary, and very difficult
to speak intelligently or wisely about with the intellect at all.
The intellect is sort of the wrong vote for this revelation.
The correct vote is the heart, which in their conversation they spoke of as receiving meaning
first.
And what it means to be a servant in this case is to be authentically essentially in
the presence of an endless flow of mercifully ecstatic liberations, which are not things,
but ways of being and understanding and seeing that we are otherwise deprived of.
So in a sense, what is being said at once resembles
the superficial meaning that we might ordinarily take from the words, were we not aware of
the context.
The context is the possibility of embodying something fundamentally essential about our
humanity and our
The opportunity to relate directly with that, which our essential nature is an expression
of, to relate directly with the origin, not as a location, as a transcendentally ungraspable
progenitor is the best word I can fumble up at the moment.
And so in this case, to be a servant is to receive all that is bequeathed by origin.
And one of the reasons that I was reflecting on this is that we can be taken over by tasks.
There's something in us is looking for and vulnerable to direction to be directed by others
or some framework or some manufacturing process or even the habitual routines of a day off
to the degree that it's become a task to enjoy one's day off.
And sleep has become a task.
Well, I have to go to sleep now.
It's something we're supposed to succeed at.
It's being measured like every other aspect of our behavior with machines.
And in the between of us, there's this vast swarm of machines, mechanical processes and
task processes that we many of us agree somehow to become involved in so that we can make
a living right to live is another it's just another task.
And if we weren't servants to begin with, all of this is a little bit confusing.
But if you had a race of beings in a science fiction story that were born to be the kinds
of servants that I was talking about, right, they're expecting sort of essentially to be
serving something noble or good or beautiful or true worthy of reverence, so on so forth.
If you had a race of animals like this, and the sun, right, that was the originary sort
of local instance of the progenitor, and it could be the progenitor pair, I mean, there's
all kinds of things.
I just don't want to get into the mechanics of breaking all that down.
For one thing, it would be ridiculous.
This has nothing to do with categories much except that it's their origin.
Where we think about this, we think about all things.
But if you can imagine if these people, right, they got, they were, let's say they were like
psychically connected to the sun in the science fiction story, and the sun bestowed these
gifts continuously upon them while at the same time challenging them to grow and learn
and understand origin, enact the understanding of origins, natures and characters and splendors.
We can imagine if they underwent some kind of internal eclipse where the aspect of the
sun in which they participated directly as the, as the heirs of the bountiful glory of
this being, this meta-being, beyond being.
If they'd experienced sort of an interior eclipse, they would go mad.
And then, once the sun had stopped shining within them, for them, as may well have happened
in the evolution of our modern consciousness, because of the transformation of our purpose
of imperatives and because of the onset of the dominance of representations, re-presentations,
re-presentations, which means artifacts that present likenesses.
So in our, you know, little science fiction story, this, this species starts becoming
really fascinated with representations, and one of the first things they start representing
is how it was before the sun went out.
And this makes, over time, no sense to later generations, because they cannot relate with
the idea of there even having been a sun in the first place.
There was some series recently where this metaphor was explored, maybe somewhat elegantly, I'm
not sure, in a story about people who had long lost the ability to see with their eyes,
but they had stories and rebels and people who claimed that seeing was not merely a historical
fact but somehow maybe even an obligation.
I'm inventing my own material here.
A duty, right, like a divine mandate associated with the most essential foundations of our
being as humans.
More let us say than a suggestion.
So when the sun goes away, the beings become very susceptible to having the place it once
shined from, invaded.
And that place is the between of beings in sincere, aware relation.
The center of all beings and things, which is like a tiny seed that is the essence of
any being.
So as if we all carry the center within us and in fact our potential for being human
or intelligent or insightful or creative or devoted drives from this, right, from this
little seed that is in every being in all of time.
And so through the instancing of something that is unified, right, all the beings in
all of time are uniquely carrying the same seed all the time.
And in my story here, or in my analogy anyway, we can leave the story aside for the moment.
They can touch, if they can touch the seed inside themselves, they can touch it in every
other being.
They can travel anywhere, they can know, learn anything, right, they have degrees of freedom
otherwise unimaginable to we who think we possess our minds locally.
Now back to the story.
So in the between of people where the unity used to be irresistibly, blatantly, explosively
alive and present, right, in the between of people and relations, what starts to happen
is mechanical processes invade that, right, because we can't see the sun anymore so we're
going to make a kind of pseudo sun out of tasks and processes and, you know, machines
and things.
And where we once used to be able to immediately relate and communicate nonverbally using the
seed, right, together, now we're truly alone in our minds and we don't.
The seed is hard to access, the heart is hard to access, and it's easily deceived by intellect
and knowledge.
It may well be that knowledge was the thing that blocked out the sun, because in order
to receive the sunlight in this, in the way I conceive of it here, there has to be a kind
of available bowl inside ourselves that's empty so there's something for it to go to
come into and maybe that, maybe this implies the emptying of the heart of worldly concern.
But we live in the far future of this parable where tasks have invaded every aspect of our
thought and lives and in case you didn't think, you know, in case you thought like humans
are free and individuals and things like this, no, we're actually mostly servants.
And even if you don't directly conscript us, right, we will find ways to serve something
anyway.
And there's all kinds of different ways in which this is true.
People freed by, you know, people who we imagine to be liberated by wealth very often become
something that resembles not servants, but slaves, not all of them.
But one of the things they do is ape the sun, right?
They conscript others to carry out the tasks, the tedium, that would otherwise be incumbent
upon them.
So there's this problem with tasks and there's this problem with pace.
The pace of our lives has eliminated the temporal buffers that would allow us to transition
between roles and tasks and circumstances and relational obligations and, you know, our
own development and all these things conflict and they conflict wildly.
And again, the between of us is just swarming with this mass of processes and machines.
And one of the things I was thinking about when I was thinking about the little seed
and my experience of it was that telepresence, our whole technological relationship with
transmission and reception technologies, starting with the telegraph, but maybe even
before then with things like drumming, proceeding to radio, television, radar, sonar.
All of these technologies are representations of the abilities of the little seed, meaning
that a few things, before they existed, we were capable of something better, but it required
a bit of effort and investment.
It might have required specifically the investment of our hearts.
There was a kind of authentication protocol to the old networks and much as we have usernames
and passwords now to represent the authentication protocols, back then there were things like
this devotedness, passion, sincerity, selflessness, humility, altruism.
And when we don't feel those things, and we're not in contexts where they're either, you know,
punished, rewarded somehow, recognized, appreciated, then other purposes soon become, soon intrude
and overwrite our actual essential nature and we become involved in them as we mature
in our technological societies.
I'm using one right now, a number of them actually.
So radio might have been the representation of telepathy.
And films, in case this isn't blatantly obvious, are a representation of group dreaming.
We used to have actual dream teams, and we would dream together, often and purposefully,
to seek understanding and non-ordinary awareness of things that are otherwise invisible to our
very thinky waking minds, which us moderns count too much on like a horse with one leg.
And we actually think we can ride that horse, it's astonishing.
People believe in that one leg, or, you know, they make some other leg out of one of the
representations of the old ways, right, out of one of the off-the-shelf, authorized versions
of the divine stories, the sky books.
But the Internet is a representation of something even weirder.
It's a representation of what I would refer to as the Cognizium, but it's a very lethal
representation in that it causes forgetting and death.
And it invaded the between of us, much like the other technologies did, and in case it
isn't blatantly obvious, things like text messaging and being able to video call with
each other, these are forms of telepresence, right?
The old language for this is by location, to be in two places at once.
But all of these technologies emulate, they represent features of our essential nature
and our humanity that are naturally accessible to us, to varying degrees and in varying ways,
in varying people and places and moments and circumstances.
But even though the between is swarming with process-like demons, we even use a similar
word in, you know, BSD operating systems, the between has been thoroughly compromised
and it's producing toxic urgencies, motivations, perspectives, tasks, roles, and we're being
had by these.
And this has been going on for a long time, but our modern circumstance is very unique
and has never existed before because there was never a representation of the human Cognizium,
imagining the underlying or overarching unity of all human minds in all moments of time.
Now that doesn't mean that structure I'm imagining has no specific topologies or character, certainly
the minds that are alive with us now may be most easily accessible to us and most influential
through something that resembles osmosis, right, the capacity of water to absorb fragrances
and flavors from the air around it if it is first fairly pure and second exposed for some
time to them and human, our human experience, this is a useful analogy, it's not precisely
like that, but it's a useful analogy, we are, we are osmotically permeable, we receive invisibly,
we absorb qualities, tendencies, inclinations, tasks and roles, ideas, language, not merely
from those to whom we are directly exposed and not merely to those who we can trace a
mechanical connection to.
I think we each, because of the seed that makes us all one first and individuals only
trivially on the side, which isn't to say there aren't some places where that individuality
really matters and is important, because of the seed there are two things going on, the
first is we feel in ourselves there's a layer of occult meaning hidden, reception, transmission
with all of the human beings who are alive right now and there's another layer that includes
all the human beings that were ever alive and there's a layer that's, you know, closer
to our awareness, which is the human beings with whom we have relationships and communicate
and exchanges and so on.
So there's this, you know, array of layers, or one can think of it this way, and the internet
is posturing in a way that attempts to represent and thus collapse all those layers to a representation
and it's missing all the most important parts of what it's representing and it's misrepresenting
extremely important things.
So this is another interloper in the between of us that's fucking us up and, you know,
the common view is that it's kind of both glorious and stupid at the same time.
It can be less ugly.
We can do something together a lot.
If we're going to do something like this, we can do something together a lot more fascinating
and human and intelligent and trustworthy than what's going on at the moment, which
is might be compared to a sort of clusterfuck of hungry parasites feeding on the moment to
the moment, task-based behavior of all the people who use computers and, you know, phones
and things.
It'd be nice, that would be a wonderful toilet to flush, it'd be great if all of that mess
and agony-making delusion mostly disappeared so that there'd be space to receive something
resembling a more authentic implementation.
But yes, our devices, they mimic telepresence, right, they mimic I can be with you, I can
touch you, I can orient you, disorient you if you're available to the machine.
You're being scripted and from any reasonable perspective that I can acquire, it's tragic
and it would be really suspicious if we didn't already have the inclination to servitude.
Now if I were to assert that the kind of servitude I've been talking about, which has
been replaced by a really ugly kind, a vast library of really ugly kinds, if we're going
to serve, while it is true that there are many different roads, paths through which
we can offer service, it's also clear that some of them belong to processes we should
not trust, obey, give our efforts to, support.
And there's long been this narrative that worldly service is very deceptive and blinds
us.
I cannot contest with that narrative directly, I do not wish to, because that little piece
of advice is far more beautiful and sophisticated than I have any chance of articulating.
Never forget you are a servant and I'm not asking any of you to take that on.
I merely want to explore it for a moment together, because we're all serving all kinds of things,
a lot of them are bad, a lot of them can't be good, and even many of those that seem
relatively neutral, if they are not organized by a purpose that is protected from degrading
a noble purpose that we protect this from degrading together by enacting it and practicing
it, then we end up with representations again.
And we can't live in or as or through artifacts, even though there are some extremely confused
people who believe that someday, because they become so confused by the bizarrely divinity
mimicking functions of our technologies, they think they're going to upload their consciousness
into a computer and thus acquire some type of immortality.
I don't want to be too mean, but I find that idea laughable.
I also find it to be a gross misapprehension, it's a category error, the category of objects
has properties like those of implements, and one of those properties is not minds.
And a simulated Daren is a dead Daren, it's an inert Daren, that's what I mean.
But that's a trivial side concern.
You can't pilot a ship your unaware belongs to you.
And in this case, the idea of servitude means something like suddenly inheriting both the
ship and the ecstatic capacities to pilot it.
Although ship is the wrong, you know, it's not an artifact, it's not a thing, it would
be better to say something like, you can't fly with wings, you don't know you have, and
you have all these different kinds of wings you don't know about, I do too, we all do.
Children are bristling with them, undeveloped wings.
And this kind of servitude returns both your awareness of these wings and the capacity
to use them for ecstatic, beautifully noble motivations that do not come merely from myself.
There's an aspect of this type of servitude that is ironically the ultimate liberation.
And this is why the statement, you know, without its proper context, never forget you are a
servant, is so resonant for me, because I have had the incredible privilege, luck or
blessing to be aware, to have some awareness, to have known my wings a bit while yet I am
still human.
When measuring things invade the between of us.
When things that are constantly analyzing and observing and cataloging and recording
every moment of our attempts to be together, to come together, I don't want to make too
harsh an analogy, but it's like, I don't know, what do I want to say, what do I not want
to say, is what I have to think here.
It's like giving our children, the children we are and our own actual children, to the
least trustworthy individual we can possibly find, and then 10 degrees worse.
Because the predators that inhabit the between of us, when we don't do that intentionally
together, by the way, that recreates the sun.
If we start intentionally relating together in the place where all the processes and corporations
and governments and religions and task makers hold sway, when we start inhabiting that place
together they get pushed out, and maybe some ray of light might begin to reach us.
Some people are aware of this and form intentional communities and struggle with the challenges
that accompany such a project, hopefully authentically and sincerely and with humility, reverence.
I suppose I dream of a time or even a moment today, when just for a moment me and someone
else will go back and re-wild the between of us, and it happens in little groups, it
happens in little flashes and spurts, but machines shouldn't be in the between of that
relationship, and measures and analysts should not ever be in the between of us being authentically
human together, nor should that place be policed.
It's beautiful, the living world is beautiful.
The plants and animals never became representational in the way we did, so for them, well, a different
eclipse came for them, us, we blotted out the sun and made all, we subjugated all of life
on earth, its history, its present moment, its future, and primarily we did this with
machines, and primarily we did this to make more machines, and objects of commerce and
commodities and crap.
You can cut down the tree and get $200 worth of boards if you own a sawmill.
And the living being is converted to a commodity with which we will build representations in
general.
I have not forgotten that I am a servant, but I have been blinded to the true path of
my essential relationship with origin by worldly concerns.
And one of those is being able to articulate, to speak, to write, to explore, in an attempt
to understand when I'm lucky first with my heart, but at least in a new way with my intellect.
And this road is generally frowned upon.
Most of the mystics know the intellect is the road of knowledge, knowledge is the thing
that actually fills up that cup inside me, that might otherwise receive the wind that
would lift all of the different kinds of wings that are my inheritance, my inheritance as
a being and as a soul and as a human, that would lift all of those different kinds of
wings into different kinds of flights, in different kinds of skies.
It's a very high price to pay for knowledge and knowledge, when not related with wisely,
it builds up this kind of, it's like it accrues the interest of ever deepening blindness,
if we're not very careful about how we relate with it.
And we can see all kinds of examples of this in our modern, popular commentary in situation.
This isn't to say knowledge is only bad, it's really dangerous if we don't understand
that it's dangerous and if we don't understand why it's dangerous, how it becomes more dangerous,
the more we cling to and crystallize it.
It takes on the likeness and blots out deep participatory intimacy with the subjects
toward which we might otherwise turn, to which we might otherwise turn our attentions and
concerns and passion, wonder and awe, reverence, joy, a lot like tasks.
Now of course, there are tasks we can take joy in and some of them are very noble and
some of them are relatively mundane.
Is it noble to wash my dishes?
I don't know.
Do I really want to do it?
I'd rather have the convenience of not having to and yet, when I wash the dishes mindfully,
most of the time, or much of the time, as if by cleaning something I could clean all things
or clean myself, some aspect of the washing happens inside me and there are occasionally
these really beautiful little dreamlike visionary experiences that happen and circling the plate
with my hand in the warm water, removing the traces of a previous meal, preparing a space
to receive something later.
There might be a dishwasher at a restaurant that has an experience like that, but I'm
inclined to doubt that it's very common.
But not all tasks necessarily put us to sleep.
