Hey everybody.
I am here in Golden Gate Park.
Here you can see a little bit of what's going on.
There's a lot of people out here enjoying the sunshine, observing what we presently
refer to as social distancing.
It's beautiful weather.
It's springtime.
It's the right on the verge of the full moon in the moon cycle that I believe is the duck
moon.
I do not recall the sophisticated multi-syllabic black foot word for this moon at the moment,
nor am I going to interrupt what I'm doing to look that up.
Someday I'll remember all those words.
It is good to be outside.
I think in black foot, is the word good.
So I still have a little bit of black foot vocabulary, very modest portion I'll admit,
but precious to me.
For even though it is not the language of my people, it is a language so if I could
even tell who my people were.
And by the way, if I were going to tell who were my people, how would I go about that
exactly?
One answer is family history, right?
I would inquire of my forebears, and they've told me things about who our people are that
I remember, but most of them have passed on.
And the carriers of our stories are our elders.
They're the carriers of the narrative history of our families.
And so for many of us, both our elders themselves, certainly, and these stories, these are extremely
precious.
They're irreplaceable anchors of identity and history and knowledge, but they are also
the living bodies of our beloved progenitors.
There's no knowledge or information that can replace the heartfelt fact of the presence
in physical proximity of one's ancestors.
However conflicted our history with them may be, and in some cases, I'm well aware there
are many people who have no desire to ever see their ancestors again or some of them
because they had very difficult or painful childhood experiences or teenage experiences
or young adult experiences or adult experiences.
Nevertheless, we hold our elders in reverence generally as the kind of animal that we are.
And as I've often said, any specific instance of a moment or a person or a relationship will
have unique features.
So the fact that we generally hold our ancestors in reverence doesn't mean that everyone does.
And perhaps here in the United States, this is less true than it is in older cultures
where the family tends to stay bonded very closely throughout their entire lives.
So that the mother remains the mother and the father remains the father and the children
remain the children and so on and so forth.
And this may seem anathema to our modern, quote unquote, often that modernity mostly
indicates amputations of stuff that's really important to us, but that's not the only thing
it indicates.
The idea of individuality that pervades American, modern American experience has very dangerous
aspects and potential ramifications or consequences.
But our ancestors and so too our children, these are the living bodies of memory.
I don't know if you can see this, but watch.
When I make the high-pitched sound, the little insects gather all around me and orbit me.
I've had people claim that that wasn't a real phenomenon because they can't conceive
of being able to interact with insects in such a way that your voice just draws them
to you.
And I won't claim that it's not largely a scientific phenomenon, well, yes I will.
Science can give us insight into some features of our physical situation and our rational
situations, but there are many aspects of being and life that science is fundamentally
unequipped to explore or explain or perceive or model or inform us about.
Science is a specific array of methods and tools, incredibly useful where it's useful,
often very dangerous where it's not.
But I was speaking about embodied memory and how our ancestors and our children and
indeed ourselves are examples of embodied memory.
Now if I were to go to one of my ancestors and ask them to tell me who our people are,
they would reference their ancestors and what they were told, who in turn referenced their
ancestors and what they were told, and what would result is a string of narratives.
And today I'm going to be talking a bit about the relationship between narratives, memory
and identity.
So let me ask you a question that might seem a bit too simple on the surface.
How do you know who you are?
How do you know?
And in fact, I suspect it would be impossible to explain who you are, and the reason is
that explanations cannot capture the diverse experiences and felt senses, intuitions, thoughts,
phenomena, dreaming, imagination that our humanity emerges in the cloud of.
There's no explanation or description that will help me, that will encompass your identity.
You can tell me stories, narratives, and you can list qualities or experiences, preferences,
likes, dislikes, but fundamentally the way you know who you are
is because you have access to this store, we might, and that's a metaphor of course,
but you have access to this library of memorial information.
And if that library were to go away for some reason, even if it were to be momentarily
suspended, how would you know who you are?
And here's a perhaps slightly more provocative question.
A question asked or posed by many spiritual traditions and particularly meditation traditions.
What if you could momentarily be free of those memories?
What if just for a moment you could suspend all the memorial ideation and figures that
you depend upon to believe that you know who you are?
What if we could just pause that for a moment?
What would happen?
What might we learn?
What might we become capable of that we are otherwise incapable of?
Now of course we have pathological states and situations, things we refer to as dementia
or we I think largely misuse this word medically, but another term we use is Alzheimer's disease.
These are examples of the consequences of suffering various kinds of brain and perhaps
metabolic damage due to the progression of what we call an illness.
And I believe it is an illness.
Although again when we use language we should be careful to maintain some ambiguity, right?
We don't necessarily want to disbelieve things which are relatively provable facts, but we
might benefit from reintroducing some ambiguity there.
And in a sense one of the things I'm engaged in right now, one of the things I hope to
explore together is what it would be like for us if a little ambiguity were introduced
into our personal experience of who we are.
And over the past couple of days I've been thinking very carefully about the relationship
between narratives, memory, identity, and two specific phrases that I've become momentarily
fascinated by.
The first is disambiguation, which is to reduce the cognitive or sensorial ambiguity in thought
or experience, to go from like, oh I hear something, to oh I think that's an animal,
to that sounds like a raccoon, that's a raccoon.
That's a process of disambiguation.
And humans, like myself and you and all the other humans, while we're awake particularly
rely upon this process of disambiguation.
But most of us are not very skillful with it.
In fact language is one of the tools we use to disambiguate our experience, and most of
us have an incredibly primitive grasp, such a primitive grasp, that although the fact
that we can speak and read is a very powerful advantage over someone who cannot, we have
to sacrifice other faculty, well we don't have to, we tend to sacrifice an array of
other faculties that would ordinarily be a part of our experience of our own minds and
intelligence and relational capacities and opportunities and abilities and so on.
Many of these are sacrificed because the price we pay for the disambiguation, for the disambiguation's
language can deliver, is far, far too high, much higher than it needs to be.
And the primary reason for this is just that our ancestors, well actually that's a common,
there is no simple explanation of that.
Over the evolution of modern human consciousness, we lost faculties of memory, identity and
intelligence, whole dimensions of these things.
As we gained conveniences like writing, accounting, law, computation, telepresence,
so on and so forth.
So as we were stacking up these conveniences, we never did any accounting about what they
would cost and long ago wise men and women realized they were very concerned about the
onset of writing because they suspected quite rightly that for nearly everyone this would
result in catastrophic deficits of skill and capability in relation to memory.
They were right.
And our people in say the last 500 years, just to pick an arbitrary interval, we have continued
to fall down that mountainside catastrophically so that now people actually depend on their
handheld computing devices to act as extra vocabulary or even to remediate the problems
with knowledge and memory that we've developed as a result of becoming far too intimate
with technology and failing to develop the kinds of memory arts that were common among
our ancestors.
What kinds of memory arts am I referring to?
Well, there were certainly people capable of remembering a thousand pages of text.
To, as I understand it, to merely open the Sundance in one indigenous culture, something
like a hundred songs are required to be performed essentially perfectly by one of the participants.
There were songs long ago that lasted days.
At some point in human history, there were people capable of singing the entire Torah.
And by the way, one of the first sacrifices that one of the earliest and perhaps least
remembered of sacrifices was the sacrifice of music to speech.
This is before writing, although if you think about it, it's probably easier to remember
something that has musical accompaniment than it is to merely remember spoken language.
That musical accompaniment gives you all kinds of felt senses and cues and sort of hooks
in which you can more easily hang the relatively monotonous verbal content.
Okay, here's some more of these gnats.
So if I make even a sound at all, if I just clear my throat, the gnats leap, right?
So that's not an optical illusion.
More low tones cause them to collect, higher, faster frequencies cause them to disperse.
But some frequencies draw them directly toward me.
As you can see, language is music.
And the gnats respond to it whether I make it musical, or whether I simply speak.
Now there's a lot of ground I want to cover and I'm not going to have enough time to cover
all of it today, most likely.
But I've outlined some of the problems that face us as moderns in our relationship with
memory.
There are practices that individuals can learn.
We can teach our children and each other if we are interested.
We can recover the arts of memory together.
To whatever degree we are willing or interested in doing so.
And one of the reasons I make these videos, excuse me, is not because I expect other people
are going to be very interested and fascinated and compelled, even though I do certainly
hope that that might happen once or twice.
That's partly because I am practicing, improvising around an array of topics so that I can keep
my vocabulary alive and my creative ability to speak extempore alive.
I need, these things are, by the way, if someone said like, well why?
I'd say because that's who I am.
Because that narrative, right?
I associate an array of skills and behaviors and preferences and histories and ideas and
passions and hatreds and preferences and qualities.
All of these things I associate with who I am.
That's funny, I'm now walking again through the area in which I was first asking this
question a few minutes ago.
And also where I was asking the question of what would happen if we could voluntarily
suspend that.
Surely to be cripplingly deprived of it due to illness or disease is a terrifying catastrophe.
A tragedy that we would all wish to avoid and that no one would wish on any other human
being.
Because to be without memory at all, it's funny, we might use the word vegetative, but
that's a metaphor and it's a very badly formed metaphor.
Because you can see all around me the incredible life that is the vegetation.
And that vegetation is not insensate, though many might argue it isn't fully sentient.
And I would make very complex arguments like the sentience with which people would make
that assertion depends precisely on that stuff that they're pretending isn't smart, doesn't
have memory, it's not intelligent, it's insentient.
I think our sentience floats on the transcendent underpinnings of the entire biosphere and
perhaps time space itself with good reason.
But I'm not trying to convince you of that, form your own opinions, how to make your own
inquiries.
So surely it's a tragedy to be deprived inexorably of memory and identity and our felt sense of
being who we are, but might it not also be true that because we are incapable of voluntarily
releasing the narratives that bind us to our ideas of ourselves, might it not also
be true that that is a kind of tragedy, that that is a form of deprivation, and I will
assert forcefully that this is so.
And if this were not so, these traditions where we pay very close attention to the breathing,
our bodies, the moment of our mental experience, these traditions would not flourish and they
flourish.
And they flourish precisely because they have the potential to grant people a momentary
reprieve from the prison of personal identity.
Now again, I don't want to make any kind of claims like, well, we should just get rid
of that.
That's not what I'm saying at all.
In fact, I'm saying something very different.
I'm saying a one-winged bird doesn't fly well.
To actually understand what it means to have identity and to be able to embody that and
experience it meaningfully, we have to have something at least similar to its polarity.
We have to have something that is to that thing's right hand as my left hand is to me.
And of course, we do.
In the waking world, we use narratives to disambiguate narratives and lexicons, language
and ideas, concepts and so on to disambiguate.
But at night, when we fall asleep, we begin to dream.
And when we begin to dream, ambiguity is reintroduced into our sense of ability, identity, history,
future, relationships.
And this is an unimaginably useful insight.
When I first was able to say something like this, it shocked me.
This is the kind of thing that most of us are unconsciously aware of, that we have no
way to form either conscious experience of or description or language about, that might
help us to recognize it in consciousness.
This relationship between disambiguation and reambiguation.
Now the other night, I was in a conversation with two friends and we were talking about
experiences and thoughts about the nature of dreaming.
And I began to realize, as we spoke together about stories we had read when we were children,
a very unusual kind of thought began to dawn on me and it took a while to become formal
enough to be disambiguated to the degree that I could actually formulate it in language.
And what that thought was, was something like this, narratives, we use them for all kinds
of things in our mental experience and in our social experience and in our personal experience.
We make use of narratives.
Characters are in this sense tool-like.
And some might argue that in a way not dissimilar to how our technologies end up making use
of us, one could argue cars make use of humans to reproduce, even though they're not a proper
they, they're objects.
But because of the unique relationship with convenience and perhaps manual facility that
humans have, cars make use of our species to reproduce.
And so too do narratives and ideas.
And this is the idea that underlies a range of concepts that can be explored in different
ways, some of them more useful than others.
The concept of a meme is a contagious media object these days, but prior to that, it was
probably initially formulated in that way by Richard Dawkins, a man who for all of his
intelligence is three quarters blind, in my view.
But we could say that narratives and ideas, when exposed to human hosts and populations,
they use us as reproductive terrain, actually, and reproductive organs, right?
We become the reproductive organs of narratives.
And that's what a political system is, and that's what a religion is.
And that's often largely what a philosophy is.
All of the aspects of our common human experience are deeply informed by narratives, and most
of them we didn't form, right?
In other words, we caught them.
We caught them like a disease, and then we reproduced them, just as in a way analogous
to how a contagious person communicates a disease.
Looking through more gnats, I'm fascinated by those creatures, they're really amazing.
Their relationship to sound is just, I never overcome my fascination with it.
I can sit for hours and sing with gnats and just be completely content.
So the insight that I had that kind of blew me away, because I've thought very carefully
for many years about the relationship between memory and identity, and what we actually
call intelligence or creativity or imagination, all of these things are behaviors, they're
mental activities that depend on not just memory, but specific forms of relation with
memory, and specific purposes of relation with memory.
And so, it's no accident that the Greeks called nemosony the mother of the muses, because
she is memory.
And by the way, this is associated with water, in case that isn't clear to you.
No pun intended.
This is associated with water, in case that isn't clear.
That wasn't a total accident.
But this stuff up here, there's actually a lot of water up there, right?
We call it clouds, and there's a lot of water vapor around here, we call it moisture.
The sky was understood by the ancients, the metaphor with which they understood the sky
varied from people to people in time to time, but was very commonly one related to an ocean.
It was the sky ocean.
And so, nemosony and memory was associated with the sky, and in case it isn't clear to
you, the idea of constellations, which we pretend were used fundamentally for navigation?
No, navigation was a side effect.
Navigation was a little toy off to the side of what the starfield actually comprised for
many of our ancestral progenitors.
The starfield was a memory palace.
They could paint stories and techniques on that starfield the way I can paint lyrics
on music.
And so it became for them, there's a living creature here.
It was for them a meta library.
It wasn't merely a library, it was an extension of their own memory.
And so too, if you talk with indigenous people, they will tell you blatantly, explicitly,
that living places and the shapes and forms of relationships in those places and the specific
landmarks, that even those that transform over time, these were a mind they accessed
as though it were intimately, personally familiar to them.
And so if you were to take, for example, an elder and drive them through the ancestral
lands, they would begin emitting profusions of memorial information about what happened
here and when and how it happened and who was there and what the circumstances were
and what the context is and all these things.
So that the living places were both companions and forms of memory.
So memory underlies in a fundamental way our experience and the potentials of our humanity.
And most of us will have very little experience with this throughout our lives, we'll have
a very casual relationship with these topics, a utilitarian one.
We will think we know who we are, we will believe the narratives we tell ourselves or
have been told by others, we will circulate them and we will live and die in this unfortunately
deprived circumstance, but we don't have to.
We can make other choices together and part of the opportunity to make other choices begins
with being able to think in more complex and useful ways that bear a greater likeness
to our humanity and our intelligence and our innate, the faculties innate to us and the
faculties that are potentials within us, but that don't awaken unless they're properly
fertilized and let's be clear, most of our faculties are of this type.
So you might think you have like 50 or 60 or 80 or 100 different things you can do or
become, no there are billions of things we can do and become.
The list of faculties that is native to the human animal is infinite.
And if there is something astonishingly advanced about the kind of animal we are, it is this.
How unfortunate it is for our people and for the living world that the faculties we've
thus far commonly expressed are mostly or at least too often like diseases.
And in case it isn't clear, diseases aren't faculties.
No one would pretend that dementia is a faculty.
And yet we're suffering something like at the species level, something very similar,
the loss of the potential to embody the endless jungles of potential intelligence and behavior
in relationships native to our incarnate human existence.
Now I can sing the praises of memory for hours, but I want to get to a key insight that occurred
to me last night and it's whenever something like this happens I feel like I won the lottery.
I feel so lucky to have the chance to not merely notice but to recall and perhaps even
communicate about something this astonishing.
As I was listening to my friends and we were talking about reading a lot of science fiction
when we were younger and stuff like this and other stories of wonder, it suddenly occurred
to me that narratives structure memory and different forms of structured memory are
capable of different kinds of faculties.
They're capable of different expressions of creativity or imagination or intelligence
or noticing the iconic stereotype of the Indian tracker who can track a grasshopper
through a field.
I don't take this as fiction.
This is an example of the kinds of faculties available to human beings, but they depend
on having structured memory in such a way that it benefits from multiple underlying
potential forms that in combination become a superposition over what would commonly be
our experience of perception or understanding or awareness.
And so I suddenly realized that the thousands of science fiction stories I read as a child
were structuring my memory.
They were building the precursors of non-human intelligences within me and eventually one
day there was an unimaginably profound catalyzation event where those potentials integrated and
produced something beyond my capacity to explain or describe.
So the point that I want to make is that the narratives that we're exposed to, there
are different species of narratives and they have different purpose of relationships with
memory and as we are exposed to these narratives, the underlying structures and capacities and
purposes for which we will interact with our own memories change.
And this implies a technology, a cognitive technology and a relational, like an auto-relational
or a self-relational, but also a public face of this technology, a socially relational
aspect to the relationship between the narratives we encounter, share and sustain together and
the underlying transformations of memory they induce.
This is one of the most shocking realizations I've had in years.
The potential for revolutionary transformation implicit in this one insight is infinite.
I'm not claiming that I'll be able to make the best use of it or that we can change the
course of our species, but this is the kind of insight that creates that possibility.
The insight that the narratives that we compose, inherit, exchange and transform together.
They restructure the possibilities of our relationship with memory and this kind of insight
immediately explains all kinds of historical phenomenon that we are familiar with.
We can see entire peoples throughout history absolutely captivated by some narrative and
once thus captivated, perfectly willing to sacrifice themselves or obliterate forests
in the oceans and to kill their neighbors wantonly, to believe themselves the chosen
people or the chosen person or the avenger of the divine or the one who will see into
the nature of light and time.
These narratives fundamentally structure the purposes for which we relate with memory and
thus the results of our mental activity, the character, the accomplishments, the deprivations.
So we don't know who we are just by telling ourselves stories, though that's part of how
we know.
We know something of who we are by the way the stories we tell structure our relationships
with memory.
And surely there are kinds of narratives, so one of the things I wanted to mention is
it should be obvious there are different species of narratives.
Some of these have an incredibly deleterious effect on human creativity or insight or awareness
or intelligence, some of them are relatively benign, some of them have a profusely beneficial
effect on the possibilities of human intelligence or creativity or understanding or awareness.
And obviously we need to learn how to differentiate.
You can pretty much tell if you're walking down some path like I am now and you see an
animal, you can determine whether or not that animal mostly represents either a threat or
you are neutral to it or it represents an opportunity.
And there's lots of different opportunities besides hunting the animal by the way.
You can follow the animal and learn things, astonishing things.
Now the narratives one has about the relationship between human beings and nature, those might
be among the most profoundly important narratives to resurrect, to enhance because mostly what
we have are utilitarian narratives, particularly at the level of our supercultures.
Nature is just something to be turned into commodities which are in turn transformed
into power or profit.
That's a game that will get everything dead right quick with our current population levels
and is a pretty bad game no matter what your population level is.
But what I want to imply or highlight is just this, we need to learn how to differentiate
between narratives that cripple or repurpose our intelligence in a very negative way, narratives
that are relatively neutral, presuming there are such things, and narratives that can expand
and enhance and advance our potentials for intelligent cooperation, for intelligent social
cooperation, for awareness, for enhancing the health of our memory and the purposes for
which we relate with it.
We can learn together, I know that we can, and this kind of understanding that I'm here
presenting is the spark that lights this fuse.
Once we realize that narratives structure memory, that certain forms of memory contribute
to or inhibit certain possibilities of human awareness or intelligence, and that some narratives
are toxic and can be weaponized against entire peoples, others are relatively neutral, still
others are, what is the right word?
Others catalyze and nurture forms of intelligence and awareness that exist as potential within
us, that for generations of human beings have lived and died without tasting for themselves.
And for me this is such a wonderful insight, so provocative and compelling that I just feel
absolutely lucky to have stumbled on it in this conversation the other night.
I've thought about memory very deeply for many years, I'm profoundly aware of the incredibly
intense relationship between individuals, societies and narratives, it's almost impossible
to not be aware of that in a climate where people are fighting over political ideologies
or religious ideologies or philosophical ideologies, it's blatantly obvious that if I had to say
one of the things that makes us unusual animals, it would be our relationship with narratives.
And we furiously, contagiously exchange them, but nobody is paying attention to that process
from above it, and if we move to that position above it, if we suspend our own relationship
briefly with narrative, personal identity, specific forms of memory, then we can begin
to develop the skills that will enable us to relate with narratives more intelligently,
to develop the faculties that we've thus far been denied, many of which would probably
appear to us, were we to see them in their raw human expression, they might appear supernatural,
they might appear like something from science fiction, but we are capable of far more than
anything that has ever been written.
And this is the fundamental message that I hope to share, is that it's not that we're
using one-tenth of our brain, if you used a hundred percent of your brain, your head
would probably melt, it's not that we're using ten percent of our brain, it's that we're
using three percent of the faculties that are native to our kind of animal, and that
percentage is catastrophically falling as our people progress technologically, right?
It's almost like we're investing in machines, the advancements that should have become,
no, analogs, actually crude analogs of the advancements, that should have become common
to human individuals and social groups, right?
And that's a tragedy I feel we must address, we must recognize, acknowledge, and address
together.
There is so much more I want to say about this, but I just feel grateful to have had
this opportunity to get this far today, together with you.
I would ask you to pay attention to the methods you use in your efforts to disambiguate phenomenon,
particularly your own identity, and to pay attention to the astonishing powers of dreaming,
to reambiguate relationships, identities, situations, and even objects.
I look forward to having more time together soon.
Thank you so much for joining me.
May you be well, may you be safe, and may we together recover some of the potentials
of the astonishing continuum of human intelligence.
Bye-bye for now.
