Hey everybody. Just want you to see sun. It's interesting how poorly the camera
captures sky phenomenon. Yeah and I want you to understand something that's
fundamentally important. Which is that the camera it does not see. It is a
machine and when you see you have feeling. Yeah you have emotion. You have
transformation of the basis of yourself. Here is the moon. Now when I look at that
moon from the same position this camera is looking it is so much bigger than
what the camera sees that it's it's not the same phenomenon at all. And when I
look over here at the Sun I can see the disc of the Sun behind the clouds and
the camera does not see this. But moreover it does not feel right. Our
machines are not participants in in being okay. They are objects like tools
like hammers or forks yeah. And for a long time there has been this myth right.
This myth that our machines are somehow intelligent or can participate in
being. It is not so. It will never be so. There are thousands of reasons why I
could lecture on this for hours. I will not do so. I simply want you to
understand a very simple thing that that my phone does not see. It does not feel.
It does not participate in reality. Yeah and this is crucially important because
if we change what it means to be intelligent so that machines can have
that property then we change what intelligence means for us. And that is a
catastrophically lethal change. That is a change that is both deadly and will
cause us to forget and to lose faculties that are crucially that are
fundamentally primordial. The essence of our humanity arises from these
faculties. From these understandings. From this awareness that we are not
objects. And objects have no heart. They have no skin in the game. And we as living
beings have skin in the game. What happens matters to us. It doesn't matter
because of numbers and it's not an accounting game. That's a gloss we
invented later and painted on top of things much like the kind of waking
mind the sort of left hemispheric some of the aspects of our left
hemispheric nature right. They post hoc. Here are some flyers if you can see
them. This aspect of our minds it it it pretends to have understood things
post hoc like after the fact. And that's why why we use accounting metaphors to
talk about harm and justice and punishment. And those metaphors I have to
tell you they're wrong. You cannot punish you cannot remove the harm of
something that happened by punishing someone in the future of that happening.
There is no way to remove the harm that punishing does not fix things and it's
not an accounting game where some degree of harm can be ameliorated by imposing
some other degree of harm on the perpetrator or the perpetrators right.
And someone just told me a story I don't know the facts of this story because I
heard it secondhand. But what they said was that recently in in one of the
places where protests were going on by the way there's a reason why I'm on my
roof right now. And the reason why is that down there right down there it's
illegal for me to be down there right now. It is against the law for me to go
down there. In theory I could be shot for just for being down there right now.
And I don't remember another time in my life when that was true. It's conceivable
that during the Rodney King riots and I was here during those riots that was
true then. The sunset is really something but what I have to make you
understand is that the nonsensically modest image of it that my camera makes
is ridiculously my compared to the phenomenon I experience with my eyes.
What my camera makes of that is trivial. But it is astonishing and it is
beautiful. Even in the camera you can see right it's going through these
transformations. Now our culture is going through some transformations and
they're not dissimilar to sunset because a false sun we have too long
believed in the illumination of is setting forever right now. And not just
one false sun four or five or eight or twelve. And I hope that many of those
fatally wrong-minded angles of the mimicry of illumination I hope they
will disappear. And one of the there are so many of these things right that money
is value that that crime and punishment are an accounting game that that to
exist meaningfully we must earn money and pay for the right to continue to
exist and and to to rent our shelters to buy shelters to own land. All of these
there are so many fictions on which our modern which our modern cultures take
not only for granted we take them as gospel. That people are
that some people are entitled to better treatment based on their social class
with color of their skin or the origin of their ethnicity or their education or
the amount of money they've acquired. That nature is a disposable commodity that
we should turn into products hide the damage as long as we can get in and out
make the money go on to the next rape scene this kind of shit this kind of
garbage that women are somehow lesser beings than men which is an
astonishing fiction since men were first organs in women so how the fuck do you
get there in the first place. That we should stand idly by while our nation's
democracy is eviscerated and little fucking wrapped up tokens of the
remains are mailed out to various highly elite participants in that
desecration in a congratulatory in a self congratulatory parody of anything
resembling intelligence humanity or meaning. So I'm speaking to you tonight
from the above of a world in crisis and confusion in terror in anger and in
disease and I can't claim to understand it but I can see I can see the
between of many of the shadows with which our collective vision has become
infested and that's a grace and a privilege it's not something that accrues
to me due to some peculiar merit if anything I was privileged in so many
ways to receive gifts that would allow me to both detect and see through
fictions and those gifts have given my life meaning that I think otherwise I
might never have experienced. The future is wildly uncertain
but I believe that together we must reach for the highest ground the low
hanging fruit of anger and hatred and accusation and atrocity of crime that's
actually crime that's son wow of pretense of the pretense of merit where merit
is unmerited of merit associated with a costume or a status of merit projected
yet entirely unearned and this has become so common in our time that
unfortunately we've learned to expect it and nothing would be more tragic well
that's a I'll retract that statement it would be it would be terribly tragic if
if our children saw that we were willing to allow that situation not only to
emerge but to be reproduced or worse yet celebrated and yet I fear that we
were a child or especially a teenager right now this might be my derivation so
let us avoid the the lazy and too easily enticing traps of casting blame in the
wrong places let us see together let us learn to see together with intelligence
and insight and foresight into the origins of the problems that our people
and the ecologies of the world now face together the time when it was conceivable
for us to remain separate as peoples as genders as as ages that time is drawing
rapidly to a close right now we are going to be seeing and experiencing as one
indivisible union a union that is not merely worldwide but transcends time
itself we will see with the eyes of our ancestors we will see with the eyes of
our progeny let us make wise use of such perspective and reach for the high
terrain together this day and all the days we may have remaining to us this is
my hope vision is my dream and if you share it then we belong to a family of
origin together
