Hey everybody.
Sometimes I like to, metaphorically speaking, take a few steps back before I take a step
forward. Mechanically, that would sound a little weird. In fact, we have a trope in
English about this. One step forward, two steps back. Which implies that while believing
we are learning or growing or progressing, achieving, we're actually running away from
that. And that trope isn't appropriate enough for many aspects of our common interactions
with ideas, information, machines, each other. Particularly, however, with nature, it's like
no steps forward, 900 steps back, 4,000 stories about it. So, apparently, we've, as a species
nearly completely defected on our actual relationships with the origins of our bodies
and minds, moment to moment, not just over time, instant to instant, in what we refer
to as the ecologies.
And the result of this abandonment is endless pages of text and videos like this one, and
you know, books of law that fail on purpose to have anything to do with correcting the
course of our species as an animal in nature. And in fact, are going to, and continually
do, and this is very obvious, exacerbate the problems we've already invented. Hummingbirds.
And so, one can see this trend where the less we do, the more we talk, or the more wrong
we do, the more we pretend something else is going on. Now, I'm speaking at the most
general level of what I mean by we, which is essentially all human beings, but primarily
I'm talking about institutional cultures. What we refer to as post-industrial societies,
I could refer to them this way. And so this is quite ironic, in the sense that over here,
actually I want to put that on this other side, over here, books and videos and movies
and arguments and texts and laws pile up. And over here, the stuff they're pretending
to be concerned about is falling off a cliff of extinction. And the more that happens on
that side, the more this happens on this side. So you can see that we could understand the
humans as reprocessing and lying about the most fundamental relationships upon which
our lives and bodies and minds and even all of those institutional overlays and crusts depend.
And as that is slaughtered, artifacts build up over here. And it's no accident that all
of those artifacts are framed by rectangles. We put little frames around them in books or
on pages, even electronic pages. Because one of the powers of the frame
is to skip relationships, skip time, skip responsibility, but also to keep us at arm's
length from the death and suffering, the agony, the torture, the devastation, that the fictions
that are foundational to our post-industrial societies impose. And in case it isn't obvious,
and I'm sure it's not visually obvious, right? It's not so you can instantly see a sort of
model of this in your mind. But the damage that we do comes home to roost in us. And
we have these ideas about cause and effect. And in a relatively limited terrain, they are
valid. To the degree they are well-informed and truthful and earnest and sincere and are
capable of bearing the complexity of the actual issues we hoped to gain insight into. And there's
a vast terrain of rationales and arguments that do not have these qualities. Yet they present the
appearance, right? So they're mimicking things like complexity, intelligence, research, authority,
sincerity, insight, and so on. And these are very simple things to mimic in abstract relationships
where actions don't become for us the standards by which we evaluate talk. And of course there are
some kinds of talk whose validity ratio is relatively good that do not require in order to have that
quality that the one speaking lives up to, you know, checks every box and lives up to everything
that they say. Because after all, we are all learning. And sometimes we can frame insight or
understanding in our minds long before we're able to enact it. Now, of course, this leads to certain
traps like I'll talk no do. And the reason that I like to take a couple steps back sometimes before I
begin the video, and also to slow down is that my mind is easily excited by my pet project, whatever
that might be. And so I can easily get tunnel vision, right? I can succumb to frame collapse. So that my agenda,
notice the phoning for agent in there, can take over my awareness and my capacity to meander, right,
to birdwalk, to wander in and around the topics that I feel drawn toward in the moment. So if I take a
couple of steps back and slow down, it's like having a little dream in the sense that some
unnecessarily aggressive framing softens and becomes workable, malleable, transformable according to
factors that are present in the moment, and in my relationships here, that are otherwise quite easily
evicted. The other day, a few weeks ago, while following my smartphone with an agenda, I stood
directly on top of a yellow jacket nest. Because I was paying attention to the rectangle in my hand,
and my agenda, but not right, not I was not present where I was. And I was partly not present in my
body. Because when the rectangle comes out, and I begin to speak into it, there's this in there are
a variety of inflations, right, that I my ego and my ideological mind, my purpose of aspect, my maker
aspect, all these things kind of get lit up. And they can rapidly overwhelm awareness, presence,
playfulness, learning, wonder, awe, mystery. So if I take a couple of steps back in my mind, in my awareness,
I gain degrees of freedom that are otherwise inhibited or prohibited by mostly my habits,
admittedly. But also by the gravity of we feel in our interiority, when we're in the presence of a
set of frameworks, some of them stand out to us, we get excited, and somewhat identified with them.
And then we begin to collapse down to, well, what am I here for? And you can see this kind of collapse
all the time, in people who have despaired, or whose tunnel vision has become so extreme,
historically and habitually, that they're like kind of like a bird with no legs and one wing or
something, or a bird with no wings and one leg, which is really tragic, not funny. But you can hear
this in phrases like, well, what am I supposed to be doing? Why am I here? What's the use of this
life? But such questions are also the result of a peculiar aspect of the failure to compose meaningful
frames, and generalizations in language that are very deceptive. When I hear phrases like this,
my heart aches often, because what I hear is something I myself have experienced, and often
experienced. I remember meaningful relation. I remember deep meaningful relation. And I do,
from my childhood, with my family, early experiences in nature, particularly with the ocean, and the
trees, and the birds, and the insects, and the flowers, and the fishes, and the frogs, and the
clams, praying mantises, the blue jays. I remember meaningful relation, but I'm not experiencing
any. So what's the use? Of course, there is this utilitarian ethic that has intruded into our
lives in language, in an incredibly profuse collection of threats, many of which masquerade
as convenience, or wealth, abundance, safety, opportunity, their mimics. There's all kinds of
ways of weaponizing signals and qualities in today's information economy.
And without coherent sense-making abilities that are rich, and communal, and trustworthy,
I'm afraid most of us are going to not merely become lost in the storm, but to become points of
presence that feed and hyperboleize that storm, and press for further frame collapse in whatever
direction we become identified with due to our outrage, or pain, or concern, or fear, or ache, or
desire, or favoritism, or fashion. In today's moment, this seems a precipice that we're going to
just keep falling off of on loss. Until, and unless, we begin doing something that more closely
resembles sense-making, intelligent sense-making together within for each other.
When we speak, or post, or write, or lecture, or teach, we become transports across which
a transfer occurs. There's a transference between speaker, poster, or writer to those who observe,
or participate with them. And where the transfer contains content that's intelligent and earnest,
thoughtful, mindful, insightful, creative, aware, playful. And we don't have to check every box,
but the boxes that correspond to something resembling truthfulness, we're not going to get at the truth.
But where there's truthfulness and insight and intelligence, then that transfer, we might call it noble.
Maybe even sometimes heroic, because it can rescue people from traps that they would otherwise be
subject to, and from lives that while they still may have value, have been robbed of many forms and
aspects of value, those lives might otherwise naturally sustain. And so too minds, and so
relationships, and so to society, and our social networks, our actual ones, and the overlay of the
electronic ones. Where that integrity is missing in the transfer, where it's been corrupted,
intentionally or unintentionally, there are plenty of entirely sincere people that are just wrong.
They've married an array of frames that can only collapse toward error, essentially, or mostly do.
Where the content is poisoned, we get malware. We get the psycho emotional and cognitive and
informational equivalent of a disease that's masquerading as a benefit. Why is it doing that?
To evade whatever degree of immunity we may together or as individuals have acquired and assembled.
Immunity to what? Immunity to malware, masquerading as valid and valuable content.
Unfortunately for many of us, the model of the malware detector, or the sort of analog,
it's much more sophisticated than software, but the analog of protective software in our minds,
those behaviors that we engage in for those purposes, for nearly all of us, are incredibly
clumsy, filled with errors, filled with mistaken assumptions, filled with habits that merely
get us into trouble, and filled with histories of having failed to disambiguate malware from
content, productively, and thus have, you know, we became a new point of presence for
the malware, right? And we shout it from the mountaintops today, some of us, many of us.
So, as a people, we don't yet have anything that's really good at deflecting malware,
and even in science, and it's really easy to misunderstand me here and presume that I'm saying
science isn't trustworthy, that's not what I'm saying at all. But there are problems with science
and that it's deconstructive and materialist, takes things apart into parts, suggests theories,
gets it wrong, particularly in terms of biology quite often, though much more rarely with germ
theory and stuff. It's a mixed bag. And one of the problems that isn't immediately apparent is
that science, as we practice it today, is both very young and shot through with shoddy research,
bad axioms, bad motivations, bad actors, commercial purposes, outright errors,
and we, the common people, are not equipped to evaluate those things very well.
So, if we just say in a very blatant way, you know, well, let's trust science,
that's not going to work. Though there are contexts in which reasonable trust, a reasonable degree
of trust, in the best and earnest efforts of researchers who come to the questions with humility
and integrity, that stuff's got a lot less malware associated with it and often represents what we
can refer to as best intelligence. So, the fact that some science gets it wrong and there's confusing
origin stories for different research, so on, should not suggest to us that we should dismiss science.
What it suggests to us is that people who have studied topics their entire lives,
as they form consensus and argue among each other,
whose credentials are clear from the work they've actually done that is truthful,
in a situation where we have to disambiguate things that
are inaccessible to our intelligence,
we should be willing to pay careful attention to the experts in those fields,
so that we acquire something that approaches understanding
over time, right, it approaches it over time, the understandings get clarified,
and gives us the capacity at least to try to make informed decisions.
There's all kinds of trouble with the materialistic, deconstructive aspects of science, however,
in a situation like a pandemic, there's still an extremely high noise floor,
and that's partly because information's being weaponized and turned into malware all over the
place around us. But again, together, carefully, we can find a path through that
toward voices and consensus that represent best intelligence, meaning,
this is the best we've got right now. It may not be complete, we might find out part of its wrong
later, but if we're going to make informed decisions, you know, here's the information
that has risen above the war zone, right, and demonstrated validity, integrity,
humility, right, no grandstanding, I'm gonna get into that in a minute.
Even if our science is young and clumsy and sometimes mispurposed,
it's one of the best and most effective and efficient ways we can make sense
of the phenomenon that are appropriate to its scope.
Phenomenon such as epidemics
or pollution
or the great big red herring, climate change.
Climate change is sort of the capitalism word for
we've been poisoning the fuck out of the foundations of the ecologies worldwide
on purpose for the past 200 years, but in the past 50, that process has amplified itself
geometrically over incredibly short spans of time.
That's what the foundation of our concern, that's what we should be looking directly,
honestly, sincerely at.
That's what we should be understanding because
climate change, and by this we mean two things.
Whatever might be naturally going on in the earth's cycles and in the sun's cycles and
the earth's relationship with the sun, although that idea presumes like that's a kind of false
dichotomy because it presumes that we're not involved in that relationship, yet we are
even as individuals. So there's that aspect, right? There's the sort of natural transformations
of the atmosphere and the ozone layer and earth's magnetic field and the sun and its cycles,
the earth and her cycles, how these mesh together and integrate to produce transformations
in environments over time.
But then there's the fact that humans have been dumping all kinds of industrial chemistry.
It gets complex here, can get complex.
So there's the question of anthropogenic driven, right? Climate change, human driven climate change,
human induced climate change. And there's, you know, both things are happening.
Ordinarily the ecologies are robust enough to shield us from a sudden shocking transformation
in the earth-sun relationship. Since we've torn that buffer apart,
it may very well turn out that the buffer will turn against us, not because of some
vengeful spirit in the earth necessarily, but rather just as a natural consequence
of our behavior. You know, like a, like a guy who's sawing on the rope of the bridge he's walking
across, right? Eventually that thing just flips to the side and dumps him off.
That kind of thing. But I want to be really clear about the red herring.
The climate is changing. Our species has a role in, in the origins of that change.
But whether or not that's even an issue, and I think personally, it seems very likely to me
that it is, it's highly probable. What's actually going on that's a fact
is that we're obliterating the foundations of the remaining ecologies on purpose,
24, 7, 365, in ways that multiply in an accelerate in frequency and damage,
geometrically, over time. That's what's being hidden by the fish, right? That's what the fish is
hiding, that herring. So that's another way of using mimicry, right? We can refocus or misdirect
attention from something that would otherwise be blatantly obvious and get everybody arguing
about, you know, one branch on the tree of the problem whose roots and trunk we became.
And so we can, you know, direct attention away from our action and responsibility and from the
possibility of intelligent response to crisis. And in case it isn't clear, that one capacity
of insightful, intelligent response during crisis is presently one of the most precious
projects we can undertake together. This imperative is urgent now, and will remain
that way for a long time to come, presuming that there is time to come for us.
So I've been talking lately a lot about frames and frameworks, frame collapse, rectangles,
angles of approach, perspective. If you orbit an object, what you see will change as the angle
of perspective changes. And this is more true in our minds, but we're not orbiting objects.
We're orbiting ideas or declarations or concepts or models or theories or beliefs or grudges,
fears, grievances, hopes, desires, all these things.
Most of us are not skillful at orbiting. We find one or two angles where we like what we see
and we collapse the circle to defend those angles, to identify with them, and so on.
And this we think of somehow as being associated with correct. Notice the rect in there,
the rectitude, the wreckage, the rectangle,
and so there are these little storms of points of presence
with people shouting things at each other
who believe that they are right.
That they speak with the voice that one would use if one was God, and it's the God voice.
The novel coronavirus is a hoax. Really?
Well, I mean, if you want to get right down to it, language is a hoax.
So let's start there.
If they can make God-like statements, I can too, right? This is how the disease spreads.
But I do wish to suggest that language is, unless used with great care and awareness,
it self-ironizing, right?
But we hear these voices.
We hear people and groups speaking as if they know what's right.
And not merely do they know what's right, they're going to tell other people what's right.
Boy, there's a whole bunch of thorny, nightmarish, tangled wrecks in that mess.
I'm not even sure where to start, but I'm going to make it. I'm going to have a go at it.
In nearly all cases—that's not really true. In many cases, there's a simple,
sort of derivable perspective.
That is truthful enough that we can place our trust in it.
For example,
if I drop an apple, if it slips out of my hand, I can say, oops, I dropped the apple.
And the context is simple enough that the truth value of my statement is pretty high.
It might not be perfect, but it's good enough.
But in very complex situations, understanding the truth value of some statement or concept
or model or language or declaration is vastly more complex. And in these situations,
most of them are the result of something resembling frame collapse.
We've thrown away the complexity, we've pretended to omnipotent perspective,
and someone declares, no, this is absolutely true that whatever, masks don't help
limit the contagion of a virus, for example, airborne virus.
So that's a really interesting phenomenon, and there's so much going on there
that there's authorization ploys, and humans are fundamentally vulnerable to authorization,
and there's power transfer between the originator of some declaration and those who propagate it.
There's other kinds of power transfer going on.
It's very, very sophisticated and has little to do with, it's not even possible that it's,
you know, in many cases, it's not even possible that such declarations even resemble
truthfulness. In the first place, few of them were made from a place of integrity
and actual sincerity, from broad awareness,
and from deeply informed perspectives that have an open mind around their topic, right,
and can orbit it very sensitively and perceptively.
So one of the things we're seeing right now is this explosion of little god voices all over
the place. This is right, that is wrong, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah,
a bunch of babble, but it's very dangerous babble,
and there are all kinds of malignant purposes behind a lot of it, even if some of it is relatively
innocent, in the sense of not having a covert goal to manipulate or deceive.
You know, I cribbed the phrase from Jordan Peterson,
who I find very interesting, even though there's lots of stuff I don't agree with him about,
but I cribbed the phrase, most ideas are wrong,
and it's a pretty good starting place.
Most ideas
start out in error, and if we recognize that, then we might take a couple steps back before
we start championing one. We might maintain a sense of humility in the face of the actual complexity
of human existence and minds and our bodies,
and I'm going to explain a little bit about why most ideas are wrong.
So it wasn't wrong that antibiotics could cure certain infections,
but that idea led us to think of microbes as enemies, when it turns out they comprise 50 to 60
percent of our body cells. So you can see how the careful promotion of an idea that has mechanical
purchase on health turns into an array of nightmares, it will be 50 to 100 to 300 years
before we even understand them at this late date.
Some photographer was staring at me very suspiciously because she thought I was filming her,
because I'm holding my rectangle, and for her that collapses into the frame of I'm being filmed.
Someone's holding a rectangle, which is kind of a bizarre concern for someone who's carrying around
an exceptionally sophisticated telephoto camera,
but interesting nonetheless.
If we make a circle
of everything that can be known,
and within that we make a circle of everything that can be known from Earth,
that second circle is going to be incredibly small.
Even though we presume that the laws of physics quote unquote, I'd love to know
why they're called laws, they should be called propensities or something,
because they're definitely not laws, whatever they might be.
We presume that the laws of physics, as we have come to very incompletely understand them,
apply everywhere in time space, and I'm pretty sure we've got that wrong,
but they might apply most places in a given layer we can explore,
with ideas and mathematics and experiments and so on.
So the circle of all that can be known, the circle of all that can be known from Earth,
the circle of all that can be known by human beings, we keep getting tinier and tinier circles,
but we're going to stay inside the circle of things that can be known on Earth.
Inside that circle, human knowledge represents something unimaginably smaller than one percent
grasp, like point zero zero zero zero zero zero zero zero zero zero zero zero one, something
like this. So the idea that an idea is authoritative is a relative idea in most contexts, there are
few exceptions, there are edge cases where the idea is reasonably authoritative within the context
in which it's applicable.
So of what we might know as a species, we know nearly nothing, and of things like biology,
the immune system, the brain, the body, the complexity is staggering beyond our capacity
to imagine. The activity of a single cell over one second
is unimaginably complex.
Of course, depending on how we use the macro microscope,
it's not too hard to watch what a cell physically does over a second
in terms of from the macro level where we see the cell, but it's really hard to understand
what the cell is doing at the membrane and inside itself over that second.
So the thing I want to highlight here is that
our actual acquired knowledge is unimaginably less sophisticated, well I keep using that word,
profoundly less sophisticated than,
then the suppositions at play when we begin declaring the truth of incredibly complex
matters, but there's another problem with the truth.
We have this propensity to skip over relations, skip over time, skip over work, skip over
responsibility, skip over living places, skip over the fact that we're animals,
and collapse the frame into a known, a known thing, I know this.
And the problem with that is that
truth is transformed by relation, right? We learn things by relation,
and there aren't any truths we don't learn, right?
Unless we're referring to those that are unknown.
So as a relationship proceeds,
the arbiters of truthfulness and integrity and validity transform in the relation,
and when the scientist takes the mouse out of nature into the lab, that's a transformation.
That changes the scientist, it changes the mouse, it changes the manifold of relation,
and if they kill the mouse and examine its organs, looking for example for evidence of
infection with a pathogen they introduced to its body, then that manifold collapses, it's gone.
So we can kill relation to get knowledge,
and in case it isn't clear,
if one's goal
is to pimp one's predictive abilities, right? To say I'm a really good predictor,
my knowledge is good, because it predicts things well, which is part of what's going on with
human representational intelligence in general. There's a peculiar feature of that process that's
easily overlooked, and it goes something like this. The more stuff I kill, the more predictable
things become, and if I can kill it all the way back to just a dead frame in spacetime,
my prediction becomes nearly perfect, right? I'm evicting relationships,
and as I evict and destroy and obliterate relationships, my predictive power becomes
better and better, so if I'm really excited about being a good predictor, a great way to do that
is just kill up a bunch of things, kill up as much as you can, and the more you kill, the better
your predictions work, because you're actually physically evicting organismal complexity and
relational complexity and bio relational complexity, hyper structures of awareness and
consciousness and ecologies. You're going to burn all that down, right? End of the relationship,
and the result is knowledge, and you can see something like this in cancel culture.
You can see this incredible display of rectitude,
of rightness. We know what's correct for everyone, right?
And this isn't to say that most estranged or bizarre or hyperbolic cultural movements,
they've got a poison pill wrapped around something that's actually important,
and reasonable, and true, or has integrity, right? So they just wrap malware around that little core,
and then sort of send it out, and the malware is extremely attractive because
it presents with the face of that core of moral or ethical concern, intent, history, so on.
And that, having that core thing that we might want to actually acknowledge together,
both keeps it in circulation and is used as a defense against competing malware,
and critical inquiry, right? And when I say critical inquiry, I'm imagining
something pursued with earnest humility and integrity and the desire to learn and discover,
and to gain insight and understanding together, which can be enacted together for each other,
altruistically.
So you can see this sort of bubbling volcano of rightness
in modern human cultural communication, and all kinds of bizarre little backwaters of that,
including trolling and sophisticated misdirection, and all kinds of stuff, right? There's this huge
landscape there. But what our species actually has a grasp on is very, very little. And we have this
other problem, which is that we generalize to produce knowledge. So we talk about normative
cases. We talk about the median. We talk about the average. And that's a statistical game that,
not unuseful, is totally deceptive if we start trying to get, for example,
if we start demanding that a certain kind of behavior is normal and another kind is abnormal.
Even though it's sensible statistically, it's often wrong three other ways.
And the reason is that each individual human being and each moment of their life and each day of
their life, though some of us transform more than others in time or in context, and some of us
transform more quickly than others, and some of us transform more slowly than others, we are all
adjusting to environment and context ceaselessly all the time. And sometimes that's a very painful
adjustment for many of us. And some of those contexts are actually cruel or inhuman or misguided
or malignant. But if we take neurotypicals, and we actually look closely at individuals, what
we're going to find is this astonishing variance of what it means to be quote unquote neurotypical.
And if we look at people who for one analytic or diagnostic reason or another
are seen or declared to be outside that group, and we have diagnostic categories for this,
which are confusing and clumsy and bizarre, but also allow the possibility of some adjustment
for uniqueness to be made, while at the same time allowing for the possibility of
kind of the destruction of the people who are not neurotypical.
We're going to find the same thing with them. We're going to find radical variation person
to person, even while we find shared criteria in terms of that with which someone identified
a person as being non neurotypical. So my point
is that generalizations grant us some degree of convenience, but they also do a bunch of skipping.
They skip the complexity and the meaningful interiority
that is actually more true than the generalizations because it's more complex and broader
in individual situations and cases and circumstances.
So we're misled by generalizations.
In every particular place where there's a living being,
a living being is being transformed and transforming relationships.
Now that's an extremely broad generalization, so it feels relatively safe for me to make it.
But to declare the truth for all people
is too often an act of ignorant hubris and frame collapse and identification with the result
of that collapse and the intent to transmit that collapse to others under the auspices
of valorous action, pretending to be valorous, pretending to be noble, pretending to be well
intentioned. That's not sincerity, that's not integrity, that's deception. And even if one is
sincere, it's really easy to become the avatar of one's favored frame collapse moments and go
around declaring things. I've seen guys declare that the earth is flat, that in space there is no light
and other very confusing ideas.
It was very bold of Peterson to say most ideas are wrong, but these things that I've
reflected on help us to understand why that's true. What he really means is
even where they have elements that are correct, the applicable scope of that correctness
is so narrow when compared to what can be known that we'd be wrong to stop there.
We'd be wrong to subscribe to that frame collapse and go like, oh yeah, it's true that
inserts some statement of fact advertising here.
Now there's a trope here that I'm trying to communicate and I can't find another way to do it,
but I'm going to paraphrase a story.
About when the humans first came to perhaps the North American continent and
a colloquium of the animals got together and realized that the humans are incredibly vulnerable,
but they're also incredibly dangerous.
And in this case, in this story, the otter says,
well, let's just kill them all and be done with it. They're dangerous. It's true.
And if we don't act now, we may not have another chance.
But the beaver, who has an important role in the sense of being the one
that is the kind of the origin point in the circle of relation, the one who directs the
living waters, says now, I don't think that's a good idea. If we do that,
they will hate us and hunt us forever. We will start a war that has no end.
I think we should enter into a living relationship with the humans.
And this is the difference between, you can see what's going on here, right?
If the animals make that cut in this story, the humans are bad.
Well, then that turns out to become true. But it's not clear that it's true of the humans
or all the humans. It's a generalization. But what it does is it ends the relational manifold,
it frames it, it makes that cut, and it has the project of potentially internalizing
that frame, that cut. And the beaver says, no, let's stay in play.
Let's discover what's actually going on. Let's not start on the side of war.
Let's recognize the humans as animals. And to the degree we are able,
welcome them into living relation with our peoples and the living places.
And that's a different kind of truth. It's not declarative. Yes, it's not perfectly
disambiguated. And it has all kinds of open aspects that represent degrees of liberty,
which are lost when we suddenly know the truth that the humans are dangerous,
which turns out to be pretty darn true. We better hope the animals don't revisit that colloquium,
because if they do, the beaver is going to have a rough time reprising that argument.
I think. But this story isn't just about animals and humans. It's about
the nature of knowledge and decision making. It's about frames and their collapse and what
happens when they collapse. And why, in most cases, it's imperative to preserve
the spaciousness, the opportunities for mutual understanding and awareness and learning
and an actual advancement by not collapsing. Yeah.
And as I said, many of the ideas that are wrong, it's not as though they have no
useful content. Often, there are aspects of content
in ideas that are wrong that we can make intelligent use of. And this,
I'm going to crib a little bit from Eric Weinstein here when he talks about dining all a cart.
In this context, what he means by this language is noticing in the content being transferred
from people with whom we might otherwise not agree at all or even aggressively disagree.
Noticing in the content
elements, retrievable intelligence that is truthful and valuable and insightful and
and useful and, you know, creative wise.
So that the other day when someone asked me,
have you watched Jordan Peterson and I said, yes, I think he's brilliant.
I got this incredible reaction of you're kidding, right? You know,
but no, I'm not kidding. And it's because I'm used to dining all a cart.
Many of the most brilliant people we will come across in our lives are still human.
They're not perfect. They don't know the truth. But many of them have a passion
for traveling in the direction of truthfulness. And they're going to make all kinds of mistakes
along that path that they might just a few years later correct or transform
if we decide to cancel them. Then we miss out on their mistakes and their triumphs.
And we presume that they're a bad human being. Well,
how the fuck are we supposed to learn in an environment like that?
So I really like Eric's idea. And it's one I've I've practiced for a long time because
some of the people I most admire have said things I absolutely disagree with. If I had to cancel them,
evict them from transfer with me, there would be no nearly no one I could learn with or receive
knowledge from in, for example, in academic culture and books.
So the opposite idea, the idea that, well, this person has to check every one of my boxes before
I can sign up. While it might not be inappropriate in a very narrow set of cases, very small set,
it's not, it seems wildly unreasonable to me and completely confused
outside of those contexts in which it might be necessary or appropriate. And those are very few
compared to the way this idea is being promulgated.
Furthermore, I don't want others to decide whose voice I get to hear.
Now, there might be cases in which I'm happy to stop hearing some specific voice because I truly
detest it or think it actively malignant. But even then, I might want to hear it because I would
want to understand the ways in which it warps truth and value and integrity to form its message,
right? I would want to be able to be educated by it, not merely to have no access to it.
Because I'm trying to understand what it means to have a mind and what our actual opportunities are
as human beings, whether we're alone or together, and in the ways in which we are together. So
part of me feels really happy when I hear that somebody who was saying something that's completely
wrong, minded, has been, you know, has been snipped off the tree of the majority of existing social
corporate owned propaganda machines anyway.
Part of me feels good when I hear that somebody I really don't like
has been prohibited from a platform. But another part of me and the one that I trust more
is very suspicious about that because extrapolate, right?
If we extrapolate this behavior, and this is part of rectitude, right? This is the,
I keep saying this right, this is part of, you know, correctness.
Eventually we only hear the voices of primarily the most successful malware.
That's what's going to win there. Not actual intelligence or integrity or sincerity or
you know, informed opinion or critical awareness. No, no. Now we're going to get
that process produces extremely virulent, self-enhancing malware as minds in human beings.
Whereas the artifacted, as the skeletal remains of what would have otherwise become minds in human
beings. It's frame collapse. And it is as if there are something analogous to organisms competing,
I call them thrips, to dominate the transports between human minds, which I call the mimula,
and use humans as reproductive organs.
This is a very useful perspective. I'm not advocating that we take it absolutely literally,
or that it's concretely true, but that we entertain it. Because if we do, we can see that,
we can see what the sort of behavior and goal targets are for these kinds of organism-like
processes in human social cognition and in personal human cognition.
And so if we think of the field of all human minds, we'll limit it for the moment just to
those alive right now, but it's not limited that way. Because you speak language, right?
You didn't invent language, did you? No. And you didn't invent your specific language either, no.
But we'll look at just those lives, those humans alive right now, and imagine that
there, all those minds together form a field that transform the units and the transports
and the structures within that field constantly and ceaselessly,
and thrips, ideas, concepts, nomenclature,
the claim to rightness or truth.
These are competing in that network to own the transports and to be propagated by humans and
groups. And someone could say, well, it's just meme theory, but I'm like, no, they're not just
viruses, they're more like animals, and there are good thrips. In fact, there are thrips
that take down malware networks, right? But there are also thrips that protect malware networks
in this model, which is really just a toy of something unimaginably complex,
and with layers we don't even have language about.
Now, I'm trying to learn to better understand the topics I'm reflecting on here. I'm not
presenting you with finished knowledge. I'm taking a walk on a landscape that I spend time in
because I'm concerned about these matters, and I'm concerned about life on earth, and I'm concerned
about the nature of human consciousness and what it means to have a mind, and I'm concerned for the
ecologies, and I'm also concerned for the humans who are acting like incredibly naive children who
have no parents, and they were bequeathed this unimaginable treasure of a living world, and
they just started ripping it apart for turning it into objects. Something happened to those humans,
something that perhaps resembles an accident in which our minds lost not merely half their
previous complexity, but maybe two-thirds, because I think there were other participants
in our original complexity. There's good evidence for this in my view.
So now I'm trying to understand the origins of the accident, if I think of it in this way,
and the histories it gave birth to, and the transformations that occurred over the evolution
of human consciousness, and I think we're in a particularly dark moment because
although our species has acquired incredible technical knowledge, it has lost its orienting.
It has lost the precious orienting perspectives and insights and concerns
that invest knowledge with meaning, with integrity. So in a way, we've disintegrated
while leaping forward over time and relationships technologically.
And this disintegration is now, and it's always been, but it's very obviously now,
reflecting back into us, and we as people are disintegrating, at least here in the United States.
I want to show you this very small
pipevine swallowtail caterpillar that is probably going to shed its skin and make a chrysalis.
And I just placed one of these that was wandering on the path on a leaf. Here's another one.
Now actually, I just went through a little technical crisis where I thought I lost that
entire video. That was super fun, but I was mistaken.
Where is the leaf? Well, it's okay. So these are things that fascinate me, and that's why
I'm exploring. And part of how they came to fascinate me was that I had an experience
that transcended everything I thought was possible for me and my mind. And in some ways,
it may have resembled awakening
the potential that was embodied in our distant ancestors, those two-thirds
that were lost as we became, as we sort of kept doubling down on representational thought, language,
technique, disintegration, materialism, dissection, so on.
There aren't really any parts here,
except to the mind that intends to impose them.
And unfortunately, we moderns are trained to use representational intelligence to
dice up reality according to little frameworks that we're trained to employ and then to analyze the
results. That's a very effective procedure for producing analytical knowledge. It's a catastrophic
procedure for engaging in relationships. One we should take great care to avoid, I think.
In the proper context, this is how things roll. As someone who loves organisms, I'm not happy
with how science treats biology at all. And I've heard all kinds of arguments that privilege the
humans above the other creatures or that say, you know, we can sacrifice this little fish
or this mouse that can live its entire life in the lab and be tortured or
tortured or diseased or just killed or dissected because it's worth it to get the knowledge.
That sets a dangerous precedent too, doesn't it? Because where will we stop?
And what's the actual value of this knowledge, right?
And what are we sacrificing? What are we overlooking when we make this choice?
It's okay if some disagree with my concern. I have no wish to enforce my concern on others,
but I can share it as part of just being honest.
I'm grateful that I didn't lose the video and that perhaps some of you will see it
soon. For now, thank you for joining me. I look forward to further adventures together. Bye-bye for now.
