Hey everybody. So, I came out today hoping to make a video in the very, very foggy landscape.
I love the fog. It's amazing. Everything becomes softer. Sound changes. Forms are fuzzy. Some
are hidden. You can't see far away. And it's all light inside water. And light inside water
might be the primordial recipe. Get some water somewhere in space-time. Put a little light on
that. And bingo. Stuff's gonna happen. Oh, stuff like skiing in mud. Which just happened to me.
So, I guess we ordinarily think of water as just water. And it can be. But it isn't always.
Language confuses us to think that... Well, there are many different modes of their being water.
Certainly, you can produce a gallon of distilled water, which we might think of as real water.
But the ocean would disagree. The sky would disagree. The lakes, the rivers, the underground
aquifers. All of them would not agree that that was water. Because none of them have water like that.
They're not... None of them are water like that. And here's one of the things that happens when
light shines on water around here. Living universes. Deep and rich. Teaming with organisms. In relation
with each other. And when I came out, the fog was still foggy. But then it began to rain. And I did
not bring an umbrella. Because I was hoping... Well, you know what I was hoping. So, the video may get
interrupted. Because if it starts raining a lot, I'm not gonna be able to keep recording. And I'm
gonna get extremely wet in a very inconvenient set of ways. Yeah, light in the water. The fog.
You can see a bit of it in the treetops. It's beautiful. I love being in the rain, but I don't
want to get wet. Do not wish my shoes to be all soaked in things. Because it's difficult to manage the
situation like that. Shoes get wet. Bad things happen. So, one of the reasons I wanted to come out
into the fog together today is... Last night, I made a recording where I talked a little bit about
what I referred to as invisibles. And most of what matters to humans, one might even say all of what
matters to humans are invisibles. Because even if we want or have an object, it is not the object
that we truly want. And certainly, we cannot truly possess it. It's something invisible. It's a
relationship inside us and in our awareness and consciousness and emotions and psychology with
something seemingly outside us. And that relationship can never be produced for examination. It's not
a thing. The word water is not a thing. The idea of water is not a thing. Those are invisibles. You
cannot produce them for dissection or examination or proofs or anything. And in fact, the mind with
which we assert or deny some position or statement, even should we call that position or statement a
proof. It's invisible. It's not available for grasping manipulation stuff. And our interiority is
invisible. It's not real. It's not real in the sense that concrete objects are real. Strangely, though it is...
And it's very important that it not be, by the way, part of why AI will fail to compose actual minds
or beings. So it's so deep and profound and pervasive and encompasses all of what we can
experience and is beyond all of what we can experience because it is from where we are
experiencing. It is the way of experiencing or the place of experiencing or the process. I don't
like that word as much. The world, the universe of experiencing inside us. And hilariously,
it's so profound that when I say it's not real, what I mean is it hasn't collapsed from a super
position down into one of its sub-positions. It is that the possibility of knowing or considering
the real, our interiority, is that from where that originates. So it's not a concrete thing,
we can't take it out and look at it, we can't dissect it. While it is not real,
it is that from which the possibility of the idea of realness
is organized and structured and emerges in our consciousness. Now, our experiences of
realness are not like the idea of realness. If I touch the sleeve, oh wow, it's so soft.
That physical visceral realness is not an idea and no idea will encompass it. It's beyond all
ideas. It's also invisible. So it cannot be produced, you can't look at it, right? You can
gather data, you can do statistics, you can model it, you can simulate it, you can't capture it.
It's beyond all possible artifice, much like the song of the hummingbirds
in this colony of succulents,
and all the other little birds, and my experience of being aware of them and their
signaling of music.
So much of the way we are commonly trained to think pretends,
very clumsy and not necessary, well, I think a somewhat intentional way that the
invisibles are captured and described and explicitly understood in language or math.
They are not. That's not possible because language and math are sub-positions of the
invisibles, and we are sub-positions of the invisibles. It is because we are physically
embodied and, you know, it's common for humans to think, well, there's no other way to be.
It's not so. I very much doubt it, though I'm not trying to tell other people what to think,
but no. No, in fact, our own physical embodiment is the,
boy, it's really hard to speak about things in a way that resembles how they are in our common
language. Everyone can understand that the existence and appearance of organisms is evidence of
invisible processes, right, that go at least back to the origin of life on earth, and we must imagine
probably far beyond that. And so the processes are not visible, but the organisms are. And
I generally prefer to think of it as if each organism in person, and maybe even each moment of
each being. Yes, I think so. Are the results of vast manifolds of invisibles, and there's this
little point of presence in physical reality that we call the animal, and we think that's the real
thing. In the same way that we confuse the idea of realness with this. Direct experience, and the
idea is not the direct experience. And in the same way that the idea is not the direct experience,
the physical expression of vast manifolds of time and being in relation that we call a person or
an organism, they have, they are like the idealization in a way in physical reality of qualities
and properties and relationships and timelines and lineages in the manifold that I am the expression
of. And in this way, most of what I am is invisible. And it is not, it is not like human thought. It is
not like human language. It is both beyond the human in the sense of meta, meta human. There's a
little fog here now. You can see some. This is what I was kind of hoping for, but maybe a little
thicker. So it could show that some of it becomes invisible behind the fog, right? The fog only lets
you see so far. And our physicality is like this. Our physicality is like a kind of fog that
unless we are very intrepid and curious and playful and creative and reverent and capable of
astonishment and wonder, that fog will close in and close off more and more of the invisibles to us
and we will collapse down into language and concepts and ideas in our common awareness,
but also in our potential for relation, deep, meaningful relation, primordial relation.
Not just, oh, here is the sage plant. I will pick some leaves so I can burn them later.
Or, you know, here's a broken piece I can take home with me. Or this is the apple tree. Does it
have any apples? Right? You can see how the possibilities of deep relation easily collapse
into utilitarian agendas, methodological agendas, habits, right? And when that collapsing happens,
what we are losing is the big positions above it. But what I was going to say is we are not
merely more than human, which we each truly are, though few of us will probably have a direct
experience of this. We are more than alien. We are more than human. We are more than alien.
The actual manifold that sort of surrounds our being and informs our peculiar character and
personality is a manifold of inconceivable intelligences. And these at certain positions
within the manifold produce beings, right? Physical beings, like flowers in time space.
And the beings are the direct expression of the invisibles. And in case this isn't obvious,
just realize your capacity to understand me, it is, hey buddy, it is invisible. It's not
producible. It's not, you cannot explain it. And your interiority is very similar. Well,
no, it's not similar. It's more invisible, actually. The whole, if we can refer to the whole thing,
rather than some subfeature of it, yeah. Happy to see you too. Happy to see you.
He weighed each peanut and knowing that he might not be able to get the second one
came back for the one that he preferred. I'm going to need some shelter. Here comes some water
in the light.
There's not much good shelter nearby, but maybe it was brief. So
the idea of concreteness of things depends on something inexplicably invisible inside us,
our interiority, right? The place from whence we somehow either are experience or we have
experience. Or, you know, maybe there's a better way of saying it, because obviously we don't possess
experience, though there's a way in which the language is somewhat natural to the phenomenon.
So all of the ideas of facts and logic and reality and all these other things, physics and math and
language and everything, depend upon something they can never encompass. They originate in a place
they can never encompass. We can point in that direction with them. But, you know, we can make
models. But those models are made from the invisible desire to make models, right? Which
isn't inside those models, you see. It's outside those models. The desire to make models is beyond
all models. And much of our experience and situation is like this. So that we look at
things and think we know what they are, a tree or a car or something. But we only see the strangely
limited concrete momentary expression that is accessible to our ordinary senses, usually.
If we had non-ordinary senses and we could see, for example, everything that died so this car could
move 10 feet, the car would be an absolutely different experience for us. And it is possible
to have these kinds of experiences. If we could touch the interiority of another being,
the invisible interiority and participate with them, then we would have experiences beyond
anything we are ordinarily aware of. Although, just if we are playing with our dog or cat,
right, who we love and loves us, there's a very profound melding of interiorities, right? A bonding
of interiorities there that's all invisible. Now, there's an outward expression of it, but it's
nature and origin. Sorry, I've got to wipe off the, uh, okay. Its essence is inaccessible to us
because it is that with which we access, much like seeing. We cannot see seeing. We can see that
someone is seeing or we can see they are capable of seeing. We cannot see what they are seeing.
And the experience of seeing,
it cannot be captured in any model because the experiencer is beyond all models and invisible.
And so even the idea of facts depends on a meta-fact that's not exactly factual and isn't
accessible to us, right? If you think of thought, so let me ask you this question. We are often
concerned with what is true and what is not true. And this concern allows us to form vast libraries of
different kinds of truth and non-truth. But all of those depend on something that's meta-true
and invisible. They depend on our interiority. Machines cannot tell us what is true or false.
We tell machines what is true or false. Um, but I want to ask you a sort of strange question.
Suppose that we find that something is true together. Like, let us say that it is true that my hand at
this moment is on this tree. Where is the truth? Where is that truth? The truth is not a thing.
And it isn't like in a bag or a box or whatever. The truth is in our interiority
and our capacity to evaluate, much like the Blue Jay back there with his peanuts, and decide
which of these is more veritable. And the idea of explicit truth is very dangerous unless the
context is narrow. It's not a problem if we narrow the context to mathematics. Well, even there,
there's some trouble. But it's reasonable. In language, it's a mess, generally. Though, again,
we can limit the scope and produce methods and protocols and things like this. But that's not
like our interiority. That's mechanical. That's pseudo-mechanical or met, or what is it, proto-mechanical
actually. Oh boy, how am I going to get this tree is being kind to me and sheltering me for the moment.
So where is the truth? Well, the truth isn't in the truth itself. It's in our sense of the truth.
And our sense of the truth is meta-true. It's beyond truth. It's not within the
scope that truth encompasses. It's beyond that scope, no matter what system we're in.
It depends on their being, beings with interiority, and consciousness, awareness,
that can concern themselves with such matters.
Now, is it true that there are such beings? Seems evident. But once again, where is that truth?
And one could say, well, you are that truth. You are one of the instances of such a truth
as a being. I kind of like that.
It's very important to understand that one of the things I'm hoping to
render more accessible to our thought is that the games of language and concepts and ideas are
games. They are toys. We are meant to, our minds must
work with them from a position far above them, not within them.
Minds shouldn't collapse into language and the games of concept. They must supervene over them
so that they are not dominated by their own utilities. They're not dominated by their tools.
Our minds don't become dominated by the tools we inherit from culture,
and thus are free to form other tools and to recognize the limitations of the tools
with which we have been endowed or perhaps infected, maybe a little above.
I believe the rain may have stopped mostly.
That's it. That's teeny sprinkles.
So, for all the seeming authoritativeness of factual facts and ideas and logics and
science and mathematics and physics and so on, all of which I'm
fascinated by and certainly want us to be able to continue to play with,
what I don't want is for our minds to collapse into them and be dominated by them and it's crucial
to understand fundamentally, pun intended, that those are constructs our minds create,
and the real or the true lies beyond those constructs. And what happens is we'll get
at what I'll call, love this word, oh my god, hypostasis, which you can think of as
a lesser stasis. A stasis is both static and a process.
A stasis is both like I am a hypostasis and I can be thought of in conceptually as a hypostasis
of humans, right? I'm a localized, I am not all the humans, but I'm a localized representation
of the class humans, so I'm a lesser stasis. And all of our toys are hypostasis, but we treat them
as metastasis, we treat them as authoritative. And they're only authoritative within the structured
landscapes or topologies of knowledge that we build, validate ourselves,
and employ to acquire specific forms of understanding, many of which are quite
a raft of relations or deep, meaningful, purposive.
Integrity with, I thought was hard to express. What I'm trying to get at is
physical reality and experience
is hypostatic, right? It's like lesser stasis, a vast invisibles,
in the same way that you cannot see all of my ancestors behind me right now, hopefully.
And if you do, please take a picture because I miss them.
Actually, don't take a picture, just let me know. They'll probably go away if you take a picture.
But you cannot see the vast lineage of my ancestors behind me, and maybe they never
were behind me, maybe the idea of behind in relation to time is wrong, but with me.
And yet, I am a hypostasis, right? A localized lesser expression of that cohort.
So they are invisible, but I am here, which is real. And I think the thing I wanted to get
at is that by being physical, it's hard for us to imagine something else. Well, no,
it's not hard for us to imagine. It might be hard for us to believe that there could be another
way of being, or that we ourselves have multiple ways of being, one that is really grounded in
the physical and one that is not, even though we have direct experience of this all the time at night
when we dream. You know, the body becomes paralyzed, it's silent, it's still, and the dreaming aspect
just forms universes and plays within these universes. And I don't think it forms them by
itself. It forms them in relation with many other intelligences and processes and situations.
So what I'm trying to somehow speak toward, wow, that is crazy. This explosion of...
That's really something.
If our own interiority is invisible, and I'll say it is, it is certainly not merely physical,
at least not in my perspective, but there are some people who will assert that it is.
Then the real depends on the non-real or the meta-real for, even for us to be capable of
considering it. But since our interiority is invisible, maybe it is native to the world,
the universe of invisibles, rather than the universe of the physical body. And maybe it
happens to be associated with the physical body for the sake of the benefit of many beings.
But because our interiority is invisible, what I want you to understand is
we have senses about the invisible. We have our interiority can sense things about
invisibles because it is itself invisible. The same way that I can see things in the physical
world because my eye is physical, my inner eye is not physical. Therefore, it is not limited
to the physical world. It can relate with invisibles.
And maybe this is this native world, and maybe that gets crushed and trapped and stuck
as we become and language then enculturated by the humans,
so that we come to believe that all that invisible stuff is just nonsense,
which we have to believe with an invisible thing, our interiority.
It's the same idea like, where does the idea of a figment of the imagination come from because
that idea is a figment of the imagination? It's a figment. I'm not exactly sure what the definition
of figment is, but it's ordinarily taken to be something like
a hallucination, a misperception. Now, it's very important to understand about hallucinations
that it's possible for them to be meta-perceptions, and this is one of the things that's very
troubling and confusing for people who experience anything like this, is that they can become confused
between something that is not usefully decodable and something that is, because there are forms of
awareness that employ imagery in ways we are not familiar with and familiar with,
that are actually sensing modalities, and then there are modes where there's always some
intelligence in, I mean, it seems to me there is most often anyway, some intelligence in the
hallucination, and that can be confused with useful or coherent or translatable into meaningful
ideas in language and such, or even art. My point is just that,
as a form of sensing hallucinations, which is a vast, there's a broad scope of different
kinds and depths and whatever, can be an important form of sensing.
The mother who senses her child who is distant is in danger and has an inward sense of this
could be said to be hallucinating, except that her hallucination is actually oriented
toward distant events that she should, under certain ways of thinking, have no access to be concerned about.
It is, and again, I'm trying to say that the invisibles touch, right? The physical bodies
might be separate and distinct, but the invisibles are not bound that way. And so one of the things
I was trying to say was that, because we're used to, we sort of collapsed into the physicality
of being human, our five senses, the ideas and concepts we were taught about, the identities
and meanings and nature of beings, organisms, living places, machines, animals, whatever,
televisions, we have stories about all these things that we transmit to each other generation
to generation in a process offered Korzybski called time binding.
Just because all that's going on in the physical layer does not mean there are no other layers
in which we are existing or communicating. In fact, what I'm trying to get at is that
the place in which we exist is inaccessible to that kind of thinking. There's like a gate,
there's a barrier there, right? That just says like you're not, it doesn't let language and concepts
in there, or there's no way to cross to meaningfully, well, it's complicated, I have to be careful here.
My point is just, as humans, we're endowed with thousands of different senses,
invisible senses, and each one of us experiences some of them in and as our interiority.
And that's the way, place, flowing, changing
route that we identify with and think of as a stable self, me. But that doesn't fit in language and
it's not physical. It's more than merely physical, though it may have a local presence here.
It's a hypostasis, it's a lesser stasis of vast manifolds of invisibles.
And so,
if we come to understand this, we can retrieve the senses associated with invisibleness,
with that which is not concrete. And believe me, whatever we might imagine to be concrete
depends on that which is not for its existence. So we might want to be familiar with the non-concrete,
make friends with that.
But there are other matters, because if our essence, you know, either it seems to me mostly,
one of two situations obtained. Either, before birth there was no trace of anything
that would be embodied as myself, and after death there will be no trace of anything that
will be embodied as myself. Well, the first one seems pretty impossible because I have
ancestors and stuff, concretely impossible, but it might be impossible invisibly as well.
The second one is very tough, you know. We have this question that nobody can,
everyone can pause it and some people believe that they know the answer and perhaps they know
some answers that are good or less wrong than others. I think it's impossible to know the
true answer, because the true answer would be everything. In all of time and beyond and all
of space and beyond, right, that's the true answer. The true answer is all things.
But what happens when we die? One moment,
one moment, the animate body is in union with something or producing that something that we
call a human being. And the next moment, the same body,
like what state changed that moved the body from life to death? And of course death is a process,
not merely a moment, yet there appears to be a rather concrete, you know, a rather strong
threshold across which the being that we knew as associated with the body
is no longer animating the body and the body is no longer animate.
And death can be a process and there's all, most of all of death is invisible. We can tell
sort of like when the heart stops, right? Or when there's no more brain activity in certain
wavelengths of electromagnetic radiation.
So what changes? And for the people who will say that the body and the being are the same thing.
When the body dies, the being is gone. Well it's gone from here, but I think they mean obliterated
in all possible dimensions, right? There's no, there's no future moment of the
constellated relationships that comprise the self. Time ends there. Just seems really unlikely to me
and unlike my experience of what it is to be alive and to witness death, too. So death is
perhaps the great invisible or one of them, one of the momentous invisibles. But there are others.
And one of the topics that I'm interested in pursuing though I'll only approach it briefly here
is that the mind you usually experience while you are awake.
If you are similar to me and most people.
That mind is a localized tiny stasis of weird things. Things that humans made
that aren't real but pretend to be more than real. And other weird things that some of which
are astonishing. And one of them or perhaps a layer of them are non-human intelligences.
And in case you think, well he's just making shit up, the fact that you can have a mind at all
requires absolutely the non-human intelligences of trillions of bacteria all over your body
and in your gut and their relationships and
activities. And if that goes away, the mind goes away and you actually die. So the mind
definitely goes away. And each of the organs in our body is a unique differentiated form of
cell from our stem cells, from our originary cells. And those are non-human intelligences
because they are cellular intelligences. They might be inside a human but
even though they are within us, they exist in their own right and in their own way.
So there are many intelligences in the invisibles that confer upon our minds resources and
properties and capabilities without which we could not have minds. Yet the minds we ordinarily
compose are completely unaware of this and either make up weird fictions about it or deny it mostly
with notable exceptions. So what I'm trying to suggest here is that
mythical ideas about gods and angels and demons are not...
We can reframe them as broken superstitions, crude and clumsy and delusional. That's a grave
mistake because the ancient people understood that physical existence was a hypostasis of
non-physical existence and so they explored beyond the physical with their souls.
And they reported back on what they found there, each one uniquely and each culture has its forms
and traditions and biases and insights. But most of what we are is invisible
and that universe is vast and filled with life or the precursors to life, the post-cursors to life,
both more, something weird. And some of that stuff is accessible if we are interested in
pursuing it. It's a dangerous pursuit because we live mostly in a representation while conscious
and this experience will radically alter our relationship with language and all
inter-representations and so on. But without...
I have no intention to say to anyone, oh go discover the invisible universe.
What I hope though is that those who are naturally
disposed to explore and who have developed self-discipline
and some sobriety in the face of sudden shocking novelty, those two qualities are very important
if you want to swim in that water. And also narrative sobriety, the resistance to make
a story out of what is experienced and reduce it to a structured deliverable fiction.
This is a terrifying vulnerability of humans, right? If we encounter, if we suddenly are thrust
into an encounter with shockingly non-ordinary phenomenon, both depending on how we are oriented
within that experience and certainly at the threshold where we re-enter
something more like ordinary thought and mind, we will feel absolutely compelled to build a
narrative around it, try and sell the narrative to others, we'll build what I call a thrisp,
a contagious structured fiction, hungry for reproductive activity and terrain
in the environment of human cognition and thought. Here is the superorganism of the Robbins.
And you'll notice that there are other little birds hitchhiking
on their group sensing because when the Robbins form the antenna,
the little birds can read the antenna they form and forage safely at this time where otherwise
they would not. Now, I am aware of a raptor right up that way, just opposite this pod.
And as I pointed that out, many of them departed. I'm not claiming that that's a connected situation,
but it certainly could be. It's probably more relative to humans showing up.
So that superorganism is invisible, right? You can see the birds engaged in it.
This is one of their retreat trees, those are others.
You can see the birds and you can see that they're together.
What you can't see is the body of their unity.
The one bird they become together cannot be seen and it's multi-sensing, right?
It's like a little sparkling thing where each of the birds is uniquely sensing and they're not
all looking at the same thing or they'd get killed. They're looking at different things
in their own, in each one in its own unique way with its own unique concerns.
So they are meta-sensing together and the other little birds come in and they don't just hitchhike,
they also contribute. The Robbins watch the other little birds who sense differently and at a different
rate of life, at a different speed of experience. So you get this complex living, meta-temporal
manifold foraging on the grass in an attempt to create enough safety to benefit from all of the
food that is coming up from the earth right now because of the rain. Much of that food is worms,
but there are other things too, lots of other creatures and there are seeds and so on,
all kinds of things for the little birds.
The nature of the invisible universe is really interesting to explore and play with but it's
dangerous because it lies outside the common ideas and descriptions and models that we have
of the relatively concrete world of the physical.
But that concrete world is an expression of the invisible so if you really want to be intimate
with the concrete world you have to become intimate with the invisibles that are its progenitors.
There are intelligences closely, personally associated with each of us
and it is these I hope to speak at some length about in a future video.
But to begin we should not be too quick to dismiss
strange ideas that we might be inclined to throw away because they come from a place we don't like
and whether that place is Christianity or Islam, Judaism or some other religious tradition.
We should be very cautious about what we throw away too quickly.
Because all throughout the histories of these religions there are stories of other intelligences
and in fact
though these can become weaponized and distorted they contain useful intelligence for anyone
wanting to explore and one of the things I am trying to say is there is a specific intelligence
associated uniquely with each of us and it connects us in ways that we cannot otherwise
become aware of to each other, to ourselves, to the living world, to nature, to time space,
to the origins of intelligence and there's different ways to talk about it or name it.
One might call it one's guardian angel though that's a very kind of a
Christic language, Shajek language, though we should be aware that
as I understand it the Quran was taught to Muhammad by a non-human intelligence
or this is the assertion and having had some direct experience of such things
I can understand how that could happen though certainly Muhammad as a human being influenced
that relationship and decided what to make of it even if the non-human intelligence inclined
him to make a specific thing of it he still chose to agree or not right still had free will
even in the face of the divine contact with the divine
so we could so for some reason the video got interrupted probably water and light
I noticed on the screen the the face tracking activity which of course we built because we
track faces and faces of humans are extremely important for our health right the faces we see
how we relate with each other with our faces much more primordial than language
more powerful than language by far though language can be very powerful when we're in that
layer of consciousness so I was saying there's there's something associated with our minds
directly moment to moment we're using it and we're not aware of the relationships involved
that allow us to compose a mind and it's a vast constellation of relationships it's not
something in your brain though your brain might be the one of the unique and there are many each
organ one of the unique intelligences that certainly endows us with the capacities for
formal representational cognition concepts you know concrete concepts and language and things
so in the old stories in many religions that we might be quick to dismiss
too quickly far too quickly without because we're offended or we feel there's something wrong and
there's certainly something wrong with how humans enact religions in general
but in these religions there are stories of non-human intelligences of angels and
we have the idea of the guardian angel of being uniquely associated with our incarnation
and there's something important there except it's not
our concepts again our ideas of classes and categories and sets are broken
they're broken at their root so we make the wrong kind of categories and sets and classes
to allow us to think of identity in a way that's intelligent
we're a young species we think ourselves advanced we're very very primitive in the dimension of
our habits my point however was we should not be too too quick to dismiss these old stories
there are stories of people who went looking in the invisible universe with their souls
right they went exploring and they found things and they came back and told stories
one of those stories is the Quran
that's a more or less unified story the bible is a very strange array of different
thoroughly edited stories
um
and there's different ways we can talk about this but it's not that there's one being
that is one's guardian angel it is more that
there's a place in the relational web of all beings
that the agent intellect associated with our minds it dwells there or something like that
and when we are thinking or using our minds we are touching something vastly
beyond anything we've ever imagined possible and it's alive and it's concerned with us
and it notices us and that relationship can be very dangerous because
I can completely understand how the Quran came to exist
presuming that the stories of its origins are relatively accurate
because when a human being encounters the agent intellect or
the guardian angel or something like this
they transform that relationship in the ways unique to that person's mind and life and priorities
and values and just as any relationship the humans transform it and the non-human intelligences
when we encounter them we are prone to make narratives and we are prone to say these narratives
are the truth and that's dangerous but the encounter itself I think it's important that
we have it I'm not sure it's really dangerous to our mind and our human our way of being human
in the human world because it's not from there and so I think our minds are the outcomes of
habits and relationships but like a tree with all its branches trimmed down to nothing our access
ordinarily is very limited by our habits and history of thought ideas about being reality identity
imagination
this this faculty we call the imagination very suspicious thing very interesting thing because
without that without all of your certainly all your conceptual activity requires your imagination
so all of that is figments of your imagination
there's much more I'd like to say but for now I'll close with a view of the foggy
world and the beautiful trees here thank you for joining me I hope we shall
continue our journeys and explorations very soon
so
