Hey everybody, thank you for joining me.
I'm in the garden.
It's easy to get, to fall toward acceleration, agenda, purpose, what I have in mind.
But it's not too hard to pause, slow down, and listen to what's going on in the living
place too.
Though I admit, once I get started, I'm likely to devote some of the pace to, you know, experiencing
and expressing enthusiasm and interest and concern, and perhaps insight and playfulness.
But once I start making face noises, a lot of degrees of liberty have already been reduced.
And that's part of the game we play when we make language, or when we make objects,
and even in our minds.
With the aspect of our minds that we see, are there better analogies than seeing?
That we sense the actual nature of what's going on with, before language and concepts.
Very late last night, I heard, after a still day of 90-ish degree weather, extremely uncommon
in my neighborhood, though more and more common lately.
Late in the night, around quarter to four, I heard the wind suddenly pick up dramatically.
And I heard it primarily in the tree, and it was so hot already in my place, and the
wind wasn't really coming in through the windows much, but it was suddenly ferocious.
So I went outside, and I felt that sense of, of course the language comes far after the
felt part.
I felt this really charged feeling in the atmosphere.
And there was a sort of a low cloud layer, foggy cloud, that was blowing in this wind,
and it began to light up.
And I could feel again this kind of incredible excitement, that no representations can capture.
I just want to show you this for a moment.
So you can see a few tracks in recent footprints.
You can see some preserved structure, the result of recent transformations.
But also the rain.
The rain in the thunderstorm that followed the wind, it was incredible.
It wiped out the many standing representations, footprints, structured, you know, memory of
relation in those footprints, though the structure itself seems pretty thin compared
to the actual relation, human being stepped here with these shoes.
The rain washed most of that away, and it's a new day, some new structure has been put
into the path, but you can see this sort of physical, ambiguizing force of the rain.
And it was quite a storm, though the rain didn't last very long.
The thunder lasted the whole night, enlightening.
And it was of a peculiar kind, I don't recall seeing before.
I mean, hearing before.
Sounds the thunder made were very different from what I'm used to.
Foundly intense, but uniquely intense.
I'm reminded of one of the ways I think sometimes about the relationship between what I'll refer
to as the dreaming aspect of our minds and the waking aspect or the one who likes to
grasp, likes to make structure.
And I've had people friends argue, well, it's representation all the way down.
Yeah, even if that's true, there's still useful distinctions of order, right?
Because this living place is not fundamentally in conflict with itself, but life on earth
is fundamentally in conflict with human technologies.
It's actually, it's hard to say if they're human.
They seem to have an extra component, right, a disembodied component.
That's not human itself, but is a property of humans engaged in contexts in a certain way,
a dangerous way.
Because it's infinitely hungry and it wants to make structure out of everything.
Which, of course, leads to its own demise since.
Or, you know, the universe just turns into structure.
The rain comes and washes it away and the dreaming mind, similarly, I think, is unstructuring
intelligently unstructuring and transforming memory in a way that's very healthy and necessary.
Now, you can see that on earth right now, at the collective level, the humans have been
wildly insane for a long time, but in a really fatal way for a pretty compressed period of
maybe a hundred years.
In a world, world fatal way.
The humans have wiped out each other and done all kinds of crazy things in the past.
But at the collective level, we're all serving representations and...
The thing that struck me last night, and I didn't intend that pun, was the power of the
lightning and the thunder.
And in the face, in the actual experience, embodied experience of that power, I was
reminded that the entire framework of representations that humans make and live in is not merely
fragile compared to nature, changes in the world, the world as a being.
It's not merely fragile.
It's thus far been tolerated.
When I heard the lightning and the thunder last night, it had this peculiar tenor of
enough.
The toleration is at an end.
And I admit, this is my own angle on the thing.
And I'm using it intentionally.
I had this felt sense of...
Not necessarily that, you know, in the kind of storybook way that mother nature is angry.
More in the sense of...
Though there was some of that.
But more in the sense of something like...
You've been attacking your own origin, our people, humans, and pretending to be gods
driven by purposes too insane to even consider, let alone to propagate intentionally to the
degree that the entire relational hyper system as more than a being, more than a mere being,
is taking catastrophic damage moment to moment.
If one of our own organs did that, we'd try to remove it.
But the organs of nature are multiply profoundly multivalent, and they're not merely organs,
they're intelligences, and they're not merely that, they're something we don't have a word
for and so on.
So the representational systems that we serve and use to think about each other and the
world are both omnicidal, they will kill everything, and they'll kill anything pretty
much indiscriminately.
There's no value as Daniel Schmockenberger says, you know, a living whale in the ocean
doesn't change my bank account.
This is a collapse toward representation.
I was recently listening to him talk about a ubiquitous psychopathology brilliant presentation,
by the way, strongly recommended if you get a chance to listen.
And I was listening to him in another podcast as well.
And he spoke so meaningfully about a vast, you know, really broad array of related topics
and problems, some of which I'll summarize here briefly.
Because I find his work both inspired and inspiring.
So in the discussion that follows the word hypo means less than, or poverty, and the word
hyper means more than, but in this case, specifically, it means something dangerous.
So he was presenting some of his takeaways from a talk by, I believe, Gabor Mate on loneliness
and talking about how incredibly lonely most human beings these days are particularly those
in countries who don't traditionally deeply orbit the family.
But there are other branches of poverty there.
And this is unbelievably profoundly important.
Mate had deduced, much like I have, that addiction was primarily the result of loneliness.
So he posed a model where we have hyponormal, less than, less than good, less than barely
enough.
Coveragement in all kinds of aspects of our common modern human experience, particularly
meaningful social roles, the capacity and time and space to be creative and forge collectives
that are trustworthy and have integrity and so on and so forth.
But also things just like eating with one another.
And we respond to this ongoing sieve of impoverishments that we're all subjected to to some degree.
And we have some degree of agency in there, but given the power of the context to generate
our behavior, it's not huge for most of us.
Even within the familiar context we're limited by our habits.
So in the field of these impoverishments, we seek hyponormal balancing reciprocal experiences
like power, wealth, sex, but specifically highly representational forms of them.
So for example, porn or drug addiction, or we spend thousands of hours watching faces
on screens that never see our own, stuff like that.
So there's this hyponormal context and in a situation where of over choice of how to
respond, we'll tend to choose hyponormal, relatively toxic, eat a ton of food, stop
eating food, smoke a lot of cigarettes, drink a lot of booze, do a lot of mushrooms, build
a lot of cars, get a sports car collection, these kinds of things.
And we're departing, those activities are kind of gravity wells.
They're the low hanging fruit like sugar is in food, not particularly nourishing, but
gives you an immediate charge.
And this is incredibly important for us all to learn more about what's being talked about
here.
Forgive me if there's a lot of wind for a minute.
Now although he never uses the word representation and he's very careful not to denigrate structure,
per se, he nonetheless distinguishes between things that are healthy and things that aren't,
things that don't wipe themselves out and things that do.
I see the rain again on the path and I'm reminded of what I forgot to say before, which was
if earth has to wipe out our structure, she's going to have to wipe us out with it.
There's no water she can send, no fire she can bring, no lightning or volcano or earthquake
that doesn't wipe us out with the structure.
If the structures we're serving are omnicidal, which I claim they most generally are, not
just earth but the constellation of more than beings in the family in which earth exists,
they will all give her what is needed to rain, to break up that deadly structure.
And she might not have any desire to, I mean it's not clear how it is to be a world, right?
It's not clear.
But if we playfully think of her as having a mind and I suggest she has far more than
a mind, she has infinite minds.
In some process we have very poor language about.
She will respond to threats to her own embodied being and so will those who care for her.
And our structures can't survive that any more than they can survive their own continuance.
But the weird thing about what we're doing as humans is we've invented monsters that
if we don't invent them, they don't exist.
We've become them, we serve them, and we put them together in a battleground, kind of false
Darwinian battleground, the second domain of evolution that's true in the sense that
it's going on, but false in the sense that it's not evolutionary and that's not the
only game.
And our interpretations of evolution are crude indeed if we think that competition for survival
at any cost is anything like what happens in evolution.
Much of what happens there is unknown.
We should admit that from the first move.
But the little grasp that we've gotten has been very perspectively twisted because some
people or some collectives intend to keep doing bad things and excusing them by claiming
that nature does them too.
Not so, actually, not so, though as with many bizarre theories, there's a kernel, small,
facet of truth in there that we'll never get our way with.
So Daniel never really mentions representation.
And there are very few people I can talk about this with who, in a situation where it's relatively
easy for us to understand that we're pointing at the same thing and concerned about the
same thing in the conversation, in other words, so they can see more or less as I can see
sometimes or as I sometimes choose to see.
The humans have created an artificial representational layer on whatever relatively natural representation
might otherwise exist there.
And it's demonic.
It's infinitely hungry.
It doesn't have a mind or a heart or soul or care.
It will kill anything to succeed, to iterate one more beat of the process.
And it's subsuming our minds.
It's actually eating our minds and destroying our bodies in ways, what is it, do you think
those systems will point out the ways in which they're eating our minds and bodies?
That's not going to happen anytime soon.
But it's blatantly obvious, we're being subjected to algorithmic frame collapse around our vulnerabilities
by machines and institutions and corporations and governments and so on.
So you had another anecdote where somebody new, I think, visited Fiji, a place where,
if I recall correctly, and the air is on me if not, the natives only wore, they wore nothing
most of the time and when they did wear things it was like a little belt, hold a tool or
something like this.
And so they didn't have the idea of being naked, because that's the basis of ideas.
They had the idea of being clothed, but they didn't have the idea or the word from being
naked.
It wasn't part of the tree of holophores that comprised their worldview.
And the clothing is really the representation and the body shape and stuff like this.
In Western cultures we're extremely concerned in some bizarre, pathological way about the
shapes of our bodies and the ones that are closer to highly structured, slightly exaggerated
structure, those get a lot of play and everybody else feels shame.
And it's illegal for us to be naked, not supposed to be naked, not supposed to reveal that there's
anything other than the representation.
And you can see the humans have games like mutilating the genitalia of children, the
normalization or correcting of our actual genitalia by representational systems, by ideas.
And when the field collapses all the way down to we're now going to chop on your genitalia
and it will be good and it will be right and you will be improved by that in a way that
is unfounded, insane, torturous and so on, we can see the profound impact of the general
collapse toward correctness.
It's incorrect to be born with a clitoris apparently.
And some representational system decided that humans started serving it and torturing little
girls by the millions, mutilating them forever.
So when you see evidence like that, hopefully it's not too hard to understand what I'm pointing
at.
Whether he uses the gradient from bikinis to burcos, there's something you're not supposed
to show, there's something that's fundamentally at odds with the representational frameworks
that have finally succeeded in dominating it and subsuming it.
And part of what's being hidden away under representations is that we are animals.
And part of what's being hidden away is that we are vulnerable.
And part of what's being hidden away is specific parts.
By the way, he noted that in Fiji the natives did not go after specific parts right away
in intercourse, in intimacy.
In fact, sometimes they never got to specific parts apparently.
But we go right to the parts that are hidden.
So we've been conditioned.
Something has been made extremely scarce, enforced scarcity.
We respond by doubling down on representations, hypernormal behaviors.
And part of us collapses into habit, structure, low-hanging fruit, because we're not getting
any of the other fruit at all, most of us.
And some could say, well, we're not making it.
Yes, there's a part of that that's true, but again, the contexts matter.
They impose relatively severe limitations, norms, commonalities, normalizations, supposed
use.
So we have shame about our actual bodies, which are not supposed to be seen or aren't
good enough to play in the representational thing.
In all kinds of ways of trying to fix that problem by getting a better body or making
a better body, so to speak, better in the sense of more fit to compete in the zero-sum
representational games, where somebody loses.
Now I'm drawing, I wish to draw my awareness and our awareness toward these things, not
merely to point them out and say, look, this is bad, but so that by seeing in the circle
of which that's a slice, we can see there's a whole bunch more circle there that we're
just not habituated to recognize because we're used to collapsing toward hyponormal stimuli
all the time.
Our smartphones, our machines, everything, constantly collapsing.
And he mentioned that when he was in the forest with a circle of friends, even though they
didn't have the agreement to not look at their smartphones every five minutes, or fish for
likes on Facebook, no one pretty much did because they were so authentically engaged
with each other that finally a little bit of that missing hyponormative, a little bit
of those impoverishments was being returned.
And so there wasn't as strong an urge to just go to the box, go to the box, go to the box.
Whether the box is food, drugs, power, money, sex, spirituality, whatever the box is.
So seemingly when some of that impoverishment is addressed, we come kind of come back to
ourselves in phases, and hopefully they become recursive and there's a reciprocal relationship
between this coming back to ourselves and each other and the impoverishment in the context
of that impoverishment is ameliorated over time.
And we become able, capable of having some direct experience of the profound beauty of
our humanity.
So he was talking about also what he referred to as like the macro level of humanity, which
I talk about a lot, and the personal and how these really differ.
One of the things that occurred to me was that the scope of sense making a single individual
can do is severely limited compared to what collectives can do.
So if the collectives are essentially inhabited by functions, commercial functions, commercial
fictions, market fictions, commodification, capitalism or communism, it's still going
to be a turn every living thing into a dead token game.
And this is going on in our minds, it's going on in our bodies.
Cancer is a kind of similar process.
So the collectives have been insane forever.
And they're becoming insane in wildly new, profuse, self-accelerating, self-propagating
ways.
That's a dead game in the near term future.
And not, I mean for everything, but it'll start with our own minds and bodies.
We're the delicate thing around here.
We're not a god.
That's a projection from the guy who's made of representations, right?
He was disembodied to start with.
So the fact that he can, in a sense, in a manner of speaking, speaking metaphorically,
he can puppeteer the entire population of humanity.
And what is that then?
Is it a metaphysical being?
Is it a vulnerability to certain forms of process?
Well, it's really complex.
It's not one thing.
But one of the things it is, is the outcome of a direction in the evolution of human consciousness
and collectivity.
And that outcome involved both a concerted attempt to dominate nature, right?
Again, this is like my pinky trying to dominate my body.
Coupled with competition for abstract stores of commodities, right?
No one uses the gold in the banks.
And turning everything into abstract commodities that can be sold to consumers as their context
collapses away from anything resembling the possibility of intelligence or relationships
or meaningful endeavors.
That means product.
And since we could hide the damage in the poor and in nature, well, not we, I mean,
the constructs, right, that run us, that's what's going on.
That's what's been going on.
The problem is that now we're so technologically powerful that we can wipe out, in a year,
what might have taken us a thousand or ten thousand to wipe out before.
And those things don't come back.
Those beings don't resurge once they're extinct.
And the aspects of the living world they served collapse and become less resilient, more fragile,
more stressed, until finally there's a major collapse and then a cascade of collapses and,
you know, something like what we're pretty close to at the moment, I think as human being.
So the scope of sense-making that an individual human can do is, it's not entirely limited,
but it's a radically different order than what collectives can do.
And so we have to retrieve our collectivity from representations.
Now in whatever way, to whatever degree we can, moment to moment, and it's not necessarily
that representations are bad or good, it's that the purposes for which they are employed
are both self-propagating, self-authorizing.
And this has become like the Spanish Inquisition, I could just keep adding stuff to the list.
Self-terminating, kill everything while appearing to be, you know, useful or convenient or heroic
or the right choice to one aspect of our minds, the aspect that likes representations and grasps
on things.
Funny I'm making the grasping of my left hand, the non-grasper.
And this process necessarily involves a return to active sensing, being in relation, being
present, learning rather than knowing, learning how to form coherent groups capable of being
humane and intelligent and creative.
No matter what comes, no matter what comes next.
So as I said in previous videos, we can start by kind of recognizing the field of representations
and how dangerous it is and how the institutions are just essentially embodiments of processes
and they represent themselves as tribes, right, this is really interesting, Nike and
all these corporations, Microsoft, whatever, Tesla.
They represent themselves as heroic, you know, deliverers of power or product.
But if we accounted the damage they do, they would never be heroes.
All of them would be villains.
And if we accounted for the fact that they took over the collective space and the opportunities
they're in for human beings and just turned us into functions of them, that idea is unforgivable.
And what would we forgive even if we were forgiving because it's not a being or if it
is, it's some kind of malignant metaphysical being.
Let's see what's going on over here.
Just taking a moment to feed one of the birds.
Here that we're, we're building a relationship slowly.
So as individuals, it's really uncommon for us to do effective broad sense making or even
to have any chance of affecting anything like the momentous processes I've been portraying.
So we have to choose like, well, I learned to think about this or
and I find it personally fascinating the way that there's a, there's kind of two basic,
maybe three basic admonitions in most spiritual writings, but particularly in the Abrahamic
religions.
Don't try to be God.
Don't pretend you're God.
Don't make everything into tokens and representations or your minds die and so to your hearts and
your souls.
And three is maybe be generous, be kind with yourself and other beings.
You're all in this in one body, even though it seems like there's a lot of them.
And this is the thing.
This is why the humans can't just go on attacking the fuck out of nature.
We are nature.
And so if we change that from, if we change that, which we are an emergent property of
our minds, our bodies, our souls, then we take that damage.
There's no way we don't inherit it.
We're pumping damage into origin from which we emerge.
And it was clear a long time ago that there were problems, but there was this kind of
dichotomy in human beings between the grasper and the one who flows, so to speak.
The one who makes structure and the one over whom, the one who presides over that one.
And it might be in the story because of birth order or something like this, or maybe they
fought and the order was reversed.
There's lots of complexity there, but essentially there's this basic dichotomy and it's more
like a trinity than a mere dichotomy and it's more like a constellation than a mere trinity.
But the two forces near at hand are the footprint and the rain.
And this is how our minds were forged.
We made structure in the daytime as children.
And in the daytime and at night, the flowing, dreaming mind of imagination would come and
transform that structure and wash a lot of it away.
But eventually the structure started to steal fuel, so to speak, steal energy from the process
it was emerging from, the dreaming mind, the mind above ordinary consciousness, the essence
of our beings and our connections to their origins, our many connections to their origins.
So there was a war and the unstructured one doesn't really fight, so it never had a chance.
It fell into representation and now the rain would come mostly only at night in the form
of dreaming rather than in the daytime in the form of imaginative play and wonder and
awe and reverence and giddiness and enthusiasm and inspiration, laughter and beauty.
That stuff just kept collapsing down toward structure.
And as aspects of that collapsed into structure, we forgot them.
And that was a loss in the context that was an impoverishment.
And so we started watching TV instead of playing video games instead of becoming an adventure
together in the world of living beings alive and true.
No one would make that trade on purpose ever and no one would continue to make it if we
could give them a context in which rich opportunities for fulfilling developmental and relational
play were constants.
We're learning in intelligence, we're everywhere around us rather than often some distant tower
with a little light on it that keeps getting bombed.
And you know, in the world, the representational aspect that humans are vulnerable to, it owns
the world.
It runs the world.
For all intents and purposes, it's the God of this world in the sense of our common human
roles and experience.
We serve it, all of us, by participating in it.
So we have to both be aware of representations and back away a bit, and we have to take back
the commons.
We have to retrieve the commons together, with and for each other, and for the history
and future of life on earth, as I always say.
We have to retrieve the commons from disembodied constructs like markets and commodities, and
feeding the hypernormal starvation of human beings that have almost never experienced
an authentic, deep, old relational context in which many of their most fundamental needs
are fulfilled, or richly fulfilled, or fulfilled in new ways as participation continues.
I'm not saying we can flip the world over overnight.
I'm saying this is a direction we can travel in, step by step, together, every day somehow
in some way.
And perhaps my talk today is a part of that intention, it's me enacting that intention.
Because we will need structural intelligence about the circumstances.
And our ancient stories encode not facts, but parables of great value and deep impact.
Really meaningful angles of approach to something fundamental about our humanity that the part
of us that talks doesn't want to talk about.
That the part of us that negotiates doesn't want to negotiate.
It wants domination at all costs, at every cost, at any moment.
If we could talk to the frameworks we're being run by, and maybe they are demons, right?
Maybe this is what demons mean.
The gods go away, the bad processes propagate, the humans become their slaves, everything
collapses.
That sounds pretty fucked to me.
Whether or not there is, you know, gods or demons, the resemblance is uncanny.
So our people, the ancient people were aware of the big threats, and they'd been wiped
out by them before.
In case it isn't clear, for example, essentially the Jews were fleeing the city builders who
kept converting them to slaves.
And those city builders were pretend gods, right?
It's not an accident, the story isn't an accident.
By the way, I get that there's some other readings on the Abrahamic texts other than,
you know, don't try to be god, don't turn everything into tokens, and be kind, right?
There's all kinds of other stuff, because over time those stories became weaponized.
And they may have even started out because of when they were born with a degree of weaponization
built in.
You know, there's parables about, there's all kinds of parables about sightedness,
but they're hidden in the language, and I'm not sure there's something that can rule
in the place of the bizarre demonic sovereignty of representational frameworks and their sophisticated
technological inaction by humans.
But there is something that can thrive in that same space without needing to rule, right?
Being alive, something we recognize as noble, virtuous, good, true.
And I know this because I've experienced it, it's not a thought experiment.
So yeah, part of me is saying, let's back away from the representations, get a good
look at what's going on with all that, particularly with language and knowledge and the dangers
of that entire endeavor, not so that we'll stop using these things.
We're not going to get rid of language or knowledge or technology, barring huge catastrophe.
So let's get some intelligence about how those things actually work in human populations
and in individuals together, and then let's use that intelligence to reclaim the commons.
Again, in whatever degree, in whatever ways, we deeply trust and can learn how to embody
together.
Because although I'm not enslaved in the sense that I'm in a chain, in a cage, I'm enslaved
in that most of the degrees of my communal human liberty are gone.
They've been amputated, and just like the waking mind did with the dreaming mind in childhood,
they were converted to resources for the grasper, the maker, the structuring king, queen, the
structuring hierarch, the one at the top of all trees, the mini-god, and maybe that's
exactly what is meant by demons, right, or just these processes.
Or maybe there is a metaphysical component.
I'm sort of not a huge believer in evil.
It looks more to me like defection from the good is the problem, and that there's all
kinds of really sophisticated processes and purposes that especially over time tend to
cause us to fall down into that cascade of ever more representational representations
of representations, tokens, fake economies, commodities, consumerism, capitalism.
Those are just the names of facets of the problem, right?
It's not like they're actual things.
They're ways of pointing toward characters and qualities of the swarming nightmare of
frameworks we live in and somehow manage to survive some of us to some degree so far being
subjected to.
I'm not physically enslaved, but most of the degrees of communal liberty, the ability to
make a real contribution or to receive a real contribution, to transfer wealth and knowledge
to breed intelligence and creativity and insight and to accomplish good things with
it.
Most of that stuff is off the table.
That was amputated a long time before I became a teenager.
So we need both of these aspects, right?
We need the structured and the unrepresented, the mysterious, the essential, the soul.
And I think in this perspective, we're going to have to engineer and invent ways to retake
the commons and not by war, by imitation, by doing something so profoundly beautiful
and noble and virtuous and creative and liberating that nobody really wants to be on the outside
of that.
We have to out-compete the swarming metropolis of frameworks that own the commons and thus
the commons within us because within us, we have the commons.
We have a little hypostasis, a lesser stasis, which isn't actually static, but it's a useful
term nonetheless.
A doll is a hypostasis of a person, but we have of the commons and cytos isn't exactly
a doll.
It's not a mere representation, though it has representational aspects and in our experience
it can seem like a bunch of representations.
So by retaking the commons of our communal humanity together, we'll return something
inexpressible to our human interiority.
And that might be the most fundamental thing about being human is the need, the ache, the
longing to, by meaningfully participating in the commons, the commons meaningfully participate
in our individuality in ways that aren't just toxic, hyponormal, hypernormal, and lead
to tragedy.
Who is capable of fomenting such a movement?
Well, at very small scales you and I are.
At moderate scales, we and some others are.
The largest scales, see the problem is if I go stir up a wasp nest, I get stung.
If an institution goes up and stirs up a wasp nest, everyone else gets stung because the
institution doesn't have a body to get stung.
So it doesn't feel sting.
It just keeps going on tearing up anything it can.
And at worst, it suffers a public relations crisis, transforms and goes on into 70,000
new forms.
Maybe that was a big number, but still.
So the idea of punishing frameworks, it doesn't work.
You can't punish them.
You have to out-compete them, I think.
And we can do that on small scales as we learn until we can form small, tightly knit, highly
intelligent teams of people who are both, who are trustworthy, sincere, earnest, creative,
intelligent, playful, insightful.
They bring awareness to these processes.
And they can tactically out-compete the zero sum frameworks that are otherwise going to
put an end to pretty much all games.
We'll probably suffer catastrophe.
That's why I talked about the sting.
The problem is the institutions aren't going to respond to catastrophe.
They just see catastrophe as opportunity for more institutions or profit.
The Republicans are very self-reliant and traditionally over a certain span of time,
the Republicans are the individual responsibility people and the Democrats are the communal
responsibility people and they're both absolutely toxically mutated in their present state.
But they were representations to begin with, so again, you know, and it's all about competition.
So again, we have these two problems.
If it's about competition, everything dies.
And the frameworks, if you said to them, well, we're going to either snuff you or you're
going to snuff everything, including yourself, they'll pick the second option.
I refer to them as though they're beings, they're not, they're just processes.
But inherent in the structure of these processes is that the second option will be their selection.
They'll take everything down rather than go down.
So we have to be rather cautious.
And we might need some non-human, non-ordinary assistance if we want to succeed at endeavors
like these.
But again, we pull off on the small scale all the time, they're accessible.
They're not unreachable, they only look unreachable if we extend them to the absolute.
Can we turn the world around overnight?
That's not terribly likely.
More than likely it's going to rain.
Really hard on the structured fictions that are eating the basis of being on earth for
lunch and us, since we're the animal without problem.
And we invented a fake evolutionary framework on top of what evolution actually is that
will kill everything.
Well, you can say, well, that's part of evolution.
You'll be talking like a framework with nobody, abstractly.
So these are some of the things on my mind today, and this is the direction I fell toward
thought, partly influenced by others whose minds I find brilliant, but also by a long
history of trying to understand, you know, what are the old stories about?
Why are we a creature of dichotomy?
Why does imagination die for most of us as we get older?
What is the nature of light?
How can we best understand time?
How can we better understand time?
Why are there beings?
What are we doing here?
Not that there are beings because of reasons, but we can have insight about what beings
are that goes far beyond anything our representational frameworks are capable of delivering to us
because we are embodied beings.
And I would say we have something like souls, and I would say everything else has something
like souls, but I'm not intending to evangelize that perspective.
Now the sun is going down, the living places are becoming restful.
Soon they will be dreaming together.
I hope that we shall too.
Bye bye for now.
