Hey everybody, I have some salvia flowers here and most of the flowers that are like
this, they have these little bracts, right?
And of course we don't want to, let's see here, we don't want to, you know, totally
decimated plant, but if you pull this out, this little white portion contains nectar.
And that one had quite a bit. And so most of the salvias that are like this, that have
those bracts, they have nectar in them. And I'm in the children's garden at the San
Francisco Botanical Gardens. This is a place in the back of the park where not too many
people come. A lot of people aren't aware of this place. And although we're in the long
rain's moon in terms of blackfoot phenological cycles, we're not really getting any rain
here yet, although the past couple of days have been a little bit dark, windy, cool,
a lot of, you know, high humidity. So this is a teaching garden where children come.
And in case you're not already aware of this, these are nasturtiums. And you can pick these
oops, I didn't get the whole one. And eat them. And they taste a lot like wasabi. And they kind of
have this, this like flavor curve where at first you think, oh, there's not much flavor there.
And each flower is quite unique. Here's a little apple tree. Each flower is quite unique,
even from the same plant. And this is part of why I talk a lot. I've learned to look where I'm
putting my feet. I'm not going to be, I'm going to be working really hard not to step on any
yellow jacket nests. But this is the uniqueness of each flower's flavor is part of, you know,
even though they come from the same plant, right? They are generally the same phenomenon,
but they are not specifically the same. Uniqueness is an astonishing, astonishingly deep feature
that contradicts the frameworks that are ways of knowledge often clumsily infect us with, right?
The expectation that a thing that belongs to the same class, a thing or being that belongs to the
same class, right? The categories should be the same or should be thought of as the same or treated
the same. And this is part of the problem that we have at the moment when as moderns here in the
United States, so I'm speaking of the incredibly diverse populations that live in the country I
live in in the United States. A moniker that at this point is starting to become rather oxymoronic,
as if it never were before. There are aspects of unitedness among the states,
but I'm not sure that that's their primary quality that they exhibit, not by a long shot. And from
some purposive perspectives, right? If you have the purpose to see in a certain way, you'll see that
there are states that think the Civil War was, you know, never ended. And some of those, well,
that's a gross overgeneralization there. There are places in our country where it's not uncommon to
encounter specific human beings or groups, for example, that believe that racism is entirely
justified. And it's not my goal here to indict those people or those places, but rather just to
notice that they are in many ways the results of the contexts in which they were raised. And whether
the context involved their family or not, or primarily their peers, or the social, you know,
the sort of broader social context, we sometimes forget just how recent many of our insights
and enlightenments that we experience here in the United States, we forget how recent they are,
and how few generations stand between us and abject forms of traditional ignorance, prejudice,
stupidity. There are still men alive who will say things, for example, like, I have never cooked a
meal and I never will. That's a woman's work. And we might say, you know, we might feel offended by
this and say, look, you have a responsibility to understand that the nature of our humanity is not
that we are created equal, as we are not particularly created, though if one believes in
in creation, and that mankind and human beings were intentionally forged by a divine being.
Even then, we have problems because the religious books written by men essentially frame, well,
particularly the Bible and perhaps the Quran, they frame women as both the origin of evil and as
shadow or property. I not so long ago visited, well, it's quite a while ago now, I guess,
some 10 or 11 years ago, I became friends with a young rabbi who is actually sort of radical,
interesting cat, interesting young guy. And I remember after visiting him and sort of
impressing them with my knowledge of Hebrew. In fact, I think some of them were rather shocked
because I had knowledge of Hebrew and biblical perspectives that even their scholars did not
have. And that's a long and complex story. So I wasn't intending to show off, it was sort of more
or less accidental. But they took it very seriously, and they were like, why does this guy who's not
Jewish know more about our alphabet than we know? And this kind of thing. In any case, I remember
him taking me aside one day and actually saying to me, you do realize, don't you, that the women
in my household, they are my property, just as if they were furniture or cows. And I said,
I certainly understand that you see it that way, and that you understand it that way.
And he said, good, I just wanted to make sure we were on the same page.
Now, I didn't agree with him that women are property. What I was agreeing with was that this
is his perspective. And it wasn't my place in that particular conversation to contest with him.
Um, partly because the women in his household were particularly fascinated by my intelligence.
And I think what he was actually asking me was,
in the same way you wouldn't steal my money, you won't mess with the women in my household.
So context matters, even when the superficial aspects of
a conversation appear abhorrent to my morals or ethics or perspective,
I will occasionally, when it seems useful or generous in some dimension, I will occasionally
withhold, right? I won't attack.
If I'm sitting at the table of Romans, I won't attack the Roman customs.
If they're sitting at my table, we might have a different discussion.
But this guy was, I think, trying to ensure that I understood the house rules, essentially.
And so when I, when I agreed with him, essentially what I was saying was,
I understand the house rules here, unfortunately. But it's bizarre. And the thing I'm trying to
point out is we are not yet so modern that we have escaped the penumbra of prejudice, racism,
genderism, that has long been traditional among many, many of the people
of Earth and their, you know, in the specific places and traditions from which they come.
And this is one of the things that is both astonishingly brilliant about the United States,
and tragic because we have both, right? We have people who have very progressive ideas. Well,
I don't know why we would call them progressive. We should just call them humanistic. But we have,
we have people whose ideas certainly transcend the morally bankrupt traditions from which they
emerged. And then we have other people whose intention it is to preserve those traditions,
whether consciously or not. And it's a very complex problem that we face.
I think at the moment, one of the things that's going on is
the general population is so, is so pressurized, right? There's this incredible pressure that's
been produced by the pandemic and the changes we've undergone in an attempt to avert
widespread disaster. The common people are inflamed, right? And so, because they're inflamed,
and they don't know quite what to strike out at, they're striking out at anything they can sort
of find that arouses their ire or suspicion. I just saw a little mouse. It's one of the things
I like about evening here in the gardens is that the mice and voles and stuff come out. And they're
really, you know, they're very, they're very adept at detecting incoming large animals, right? So,
you've got to be quick if you want to catch a glimpse of them most of the time, though I have
occasionally seen them just kind of standing in trance or frozen in place. And the topics are
not unrelated. What would be really cool is if I got a glimpse of a coyote, and there are many here.
So, I think the common people are, and you know, I'll include myself in them, we're confused,
we're frightened, we're upset, we are vulnerable. Many of us are feeling isolation. And some of us
have already, you know, injuries or health problems or complex emotional or filial problems,
or we've recently lost loved ones. Some of us have lost them to the virus, which many people
are so confused that they want to claim there actually isn't any virus or viruses don't cause
disease or something like that. And I mean, cause, you know, cause is proximal to concern. You can
go to the doctor and they'll say like, I'm sorry, you're afflicted with big bang syndrome. And you're
like, what is that? And I'm like, well, you see, because the universe exists, you have an illness,
right? If you want to really, you can trace cause anywhere you want to. But
speaking rationally, bacteria and viruses are causal factors in disease in the sense
that you can take a healthy animal, introduce a specific bacteria or virus to the animal,
and the animal will then display the symptoms of an illness. And it's not because the animal
has become hypnotized. And it isn't because, you know, your mind projected some nefarious
image right into the psyche of the animal, which it then, because we can do tests that even
account for that. Our technologies are still crude, but relatively robust in the sense that we can
determine whether an agent is pathological or not. And there are people who actually don't
believe germ theory. And I mean, I was listening to an older woman arguing with a relatively younger
unmasked man in front of the cafe. And, you know, he was saying, Oh, this whole thing's
bullshit. Everyone should just let everybody get sick. And the woman was like, people will die.
And he's like, yeah, you should just let them die. And of course, you know, one can imagine and some
especially intransigent people, impudent people will will make claims like this. Like,
their opinion is so important that other people dying. No big deal. Right.
In other words, their opinion is more important than human lives.
And that's the kind of impudence that I've rarely seen directly in my face all day long every day.
Until now. And I remember when I walked out of the cafe,
the older woman kept trying to talk to do what we what we have the English colloquialism
of talking sense into. She was she was trying to talk sense into the sky. And he was absolutely
resistant and really just sort of toying with her. And I said, I took a little bit of a risk.
It's not my it's not commonly my habit to do this. But I just I turned to that woman and I said, ma'am,
this man is just trying to trigger you. I really if it were me, I'd just leave him alone.
And he, you know, got up, got sort of upset and said, we're having a conversation here, not you.
As if I were intruding into a conversation being had on the street between, you know,
a man not wearing a mask and a woman in her late sixties who is vulnerable
and not just epidemiologically, but emotionally and psychologically,
the guy was bullying her essentially with opinions that I consider to be fundamentally
bullshit. Right. People who say like, germ theory is wrong. I mean,
they're, they're, they're not, they're not absolutely incorrect in that the circumstances
that constolate to produce disease are not merely those of viruses or bacteria being introduced,
but they're absolutely wrong in the sense that the amount of correctness in their argument is
less than 1%. Right. If there's any at all. And there's all kinds of this crap floating around
and part of what's going on, as I was saying earlier, is that people are so upset and confused
and vulnerable that they have no idea what effective action is. And so they're really,
they're attacking themselves in each other. And it's almost like it's the sociopolitical version
of an autoimmune disorder in the sense that if there is a unity, right, if the United States
has any right, has any reasonable degree of resemblance to its name, right, then we would
express some degree of unity. And of course, there's a lot of people I passed some, I passed,
I remember passing a family the other day. And as I approached them, you know, around here,
the rule is if you come within 30 feet of someone, you know, put your facial covering on that gives
everybody time to cover up, but they don't have to wear their masks at all times, unless they're
in a place where people are close together in proximity. And I was approaching this family and
I put, you know, I took the time to pull my mask up and one of the little girls smiled. I could
tell she was smiling because I know how to read people's eyes. She smiled and gave me the thumbs
up and I gave her the thumbs up and everybody smiled and we had a little moment of unitedness,
right? We're all, we all agree that the masks offer some degree of protection from aerosols we
might emit by coughing or sneezing, thus endangering one another. They don't. There was never, it was
never even a question of whether masks protect us from inhaling viral particles. They can,
under some circumstances, offer a degree of protection from that. For the most part, that
degree is pretty small. N95s are slightly, you know, give you a slightly better degree, but
those things are only meant to be used for a relatively short period of time. So just to be
clear, you know, I have had people who are very close to me, essentially not merely unfriend me
on social media, but end our relationship over these topics, right? Because they want to run
around telling people that social distancing is psychological warfare and it's, you know, it's a
conspiracy by, I won't claim there are no conspiracies. There's all kinds of conspiracies.
Social distancing is the best guess intelligence that we use in an attempt to protect each other
from a virus that is, as yet, poorly understood. Absolutely exists. Cokes postulates have been
proven for this pathogen. It's a fact. It's not guesswork, right? Now, could there be other
factors involved in illnesses that we encounter? Yes, of course, there can. And that is partly why
infection with the virus is relatively asymptomatic in some people and kills others.
I'm in the bamboo forest.
Shaku-hachi's flutes are made from this kind of plant and the ones made particularly from the
roots are quite prized. The Japanese flutes. Unfortunately, many people carve their names
into the bamboo. And I'm just going to not, you know, not reward them for doing so by giving you a
clear view, but it's one of the problems here is that people carve graffiti into living beings.
Some people. So there's a lot going on and the humans are confused and they're angry and they're
upset and they feel violated. And so they're lashing out in all different directions, many of them
quite ignorantly. And some of them rather intelligently. And part of the problem, really, when in my
view, and of course everyone's got their own view, is that for the past 30 or 40 years, the right,
so it's really weird. The left has suddenly become virulently fragmented in a way that's so bizarre
that they've started to resemble extreme right-wing opinionators, right, opinionists.
So there's all this really weird kind of political correctness stuff. Not that the entire topic should
be dismissed, but there are some aspects of that topic that are so bizarre and have really peculiar
origins that most people are unaware of, which again, it's not my agenda to disambiguate that
here. But essentially what happened is that, and I saw this coming in the 1980s, in fact,
I remember when the NEA came under assault by the Republican administration members of the
House of Representatives and Congress and Senate. They attacked the NEA because some of the artists
who had received grants were producing radical art. These are people like Serrano with his
Piss Christ, and there was another artist who produced a piece of art where one had to stand
on an American flag in order to sign their name in a book. And we had that piece of art at a gallery
I ran here in San Francisco at that time. And when I saw this kind of thing going on,
I saw the Republicans attacking the National Endowment for the Arts. I suddenly realized that
art and education and programs that encourage the well-being of members of our society
were like the oxygen in the bloodstream of America. And so when I, in the 80s,
when I saw this going on, I decided I would publish with my own money, and I didn't have much.
In fact, for a while during this, I was homeless, essentially. I would publish with my own money
a magazine that would combine arts and science and philosophy and poetics and drama and things
like this. I would get scientists talking and, you know, technologists and stuff like this,
and I would publish this magazine called Cyanosis, which is a medical term that essentially means
turning blue when you're suffocating, you can't breathe anymore. So back in the 80s, I foresaw
that the Republican agenda was going to obliterate like public education, NPR, which used to be an
astonishing thing in the 60s and 70s. The public television channels were amazing. You could learn
all kinds of things every day. Bob Ross was, you know, on NPR teaching people how to paint.
It was Sesame Street, the electric company, so many astonishing. There was a program with a gay
British man who was teaching people how to sew, called Sew What's New. I just can't remember the
gentleman's name at the moment, unfortunately. Maybe it'll come to me. And it was like the first
time I'd ever seen a queen. And it was so fascinating to watch him. And I just thought he was hilarious
and brilliant. So there were all these wonderful things that were beginning to flourish. And I saw,
you know, the stranglehold of the conservative right on these things. And of course, you know,
where does the money go? It goes into war, right? It goes into the pockets of the elite and the
wealthy. It goes into corporations that are obliterating the environment. And that's part
of how they make profit is by hiding the damage somewhere where it's not right next to you. So
you can't see it immediately. And of course, you can't find your way back, right? Once something's
obliterated, you can't find a corporation in such a way that it gets reestablished, right? If
fucking oil companies cause a rupture in the ocean floor that dumps hundreds of millions
of gallons of oil into the ocean, you can't buy your way back to the before of that, whether you
find them or not. So the whole idea of like finding corporations is a far too gentle
prophylactic to keep them behaving ethically. So I saw this coming and I made this magazine called
Cyanosis because I imagined them just getting like a stranglehold on the neck of the middle
class and the poor and the disenfranchised in the United States and, you know, ceasing the funding
of art and education. And that's precisely what happened. And by the 90s already,
like white middle class, you know, upper GPA students in a junior college in Santa Rosa,
out of 90 of them, three of them could compose a sentence in their native language.
One of them knew how to make a paragraph. These are B plus average high school graduates
in college taking courses on English, right? They can't write the only language that they know.
And so part of how we end up with a president like Trump is, and with all these bizarre sort of
opinions about things that are impossible, is because people in general, not that's not really
true, certain segments of the population in specific demographics are so poorly educated
that they cannot understand science. And science seems to them like a religion.
They cannot understand arguments and they know that they are ignorant. So they are identified
with this ignorance. Therefore, if someone comes to them and tries to disambiguate and tries to say,
like, look, as I did to someone in my family, not very long ago, who told me that white people
in the United States are now a minority, when I said, well, according to the Census Bureau,
we comprise 76.3% of the population, this person said, I don't care what those numbers are, I'm
telling you a fact. So once people become identified with their ignorance, anything that threatens it,
it's like you're insulting them personally, right? They see their opinions. They can't tell the
difference between their opinions, their persona, their humanity, their identity, all these things
get collapsed into one thing. And once that happens, we're in a crisis, like, in order to have
something that resembles a functional democracy or a functional democratic republic,
you have to have citizens that are well enough educated that they can't just be
enslaved by stupidity and poverty, right? And the combination of stupidity and poverty is
extremely virulent, right? That shit's contagious. It spreads generation to generation. It's almost
a kind of socio-political, it's a socio-political analogy of genetics, right? You transmit it to
your children. They transmit it to their peers. It mixes into the social atmosphere, and everybody
sort of picks it up and carries it around. And it's the same thing with religion, which whether
or not there are divine beings, we should all be aware that the religions that want to declare
their nature, the nature of the divine beings to us, those are like the corporate versions
of what would otherwise be families, right, or tribes. So most of that stuff's insane.
Not that we can't learn things important and amazing things about the nature of being human
or the evolution of human consciousness, or even perhaps if we are very careful,
we might learn something useful about why we have these ideas about divinity and
toward what it is they invite our attention. But the religions themselves, they look like virulent
social diseases to me. And I'm someone who
has experience of non-ordinary reality that inclines me to suspect something very astonishing
is going on with the nature of being human and us having minds and something resembling souls.
Although having is part of the strange word there, because it's the
it's this possession metaphor in English that is so problematic for many of us who
are still unaware of it. It's like there's this idea that we are containers and the containers
have things in them. Like you have a mind inside you, it's in your brain. Your brain contains your
mind. And to me, while I understand why we have these ideas, the metaphor, the analogy
becomes toxic when it becomes concrete, right? If one says it is as if our minds live in our
brains, that's a little bit better, still kind of loopy. Then if we say your mind is a function,
it's the result of your brain, right? And I think there's the problem with science and there's,
you know, we need science and we need to be able to depend on it. There's all kinds of problems
with it though. And this is part of what makes it possible to argue like the same kind of argument
I'm going to make here can be twisted to make arguments that like viruses don't cause disease.
Masks don't protect you from the coronavirus, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, right? Vaccines are
just poisons, right? It's not that no one ever died from a vaccine, but we eradicated polio.
And if you've ever seen somebody with polio, I did as a child, a friend of mine had polio
when she was little because vaccine was still new. If you've ever seen someone whose life was
saved by vaccines or if you work in biomedicine or you've been involved in vaccination programs
that saved hundreds of thousands of children from agonizing deaths at the hands of smallpox or
you know measles or hooping cough, rubella, then you have no doubt about the efficacy of vaccines
and you have no doubt about the existence of viruses because those vaccines essentially
eliminated viral and in some cases bacterial contagions that were nearly universal.
Tuberculosis used to be a death sentence. You get it, you die, right? One of my close friends,
his father, ran a tuberculosis ward I think in New England and he was alive when the cure
first emerged and until then everyone who came to the ward died. So he grew up just watching people
like show up and die. And by the way, back then if you had tuberculosis and you weren't willing
to go to the medical establishment they arrested you and took you there and it was a lockdown
situation because it was incredibly contagious, right? Much like the coronavirus is incredibly
contagious. In any case, there's problems with science. It's not perfect. Science as a discipline
is still very new. Much indeed like democracy is a new sort of operating system for nations,
but unfortunately the operating system we are using now was never replaced with a good
version, right? We're using something that's so catastrophically patched, right? There's all
these little patches and it's filled with malware and spyware and viruses and it's a mess, right?
Our government is a seething aggregate of largely predatory forces with a few little
immune like antibodies running around in there trying to affect it positively and largely just
being overwhelmed. But you see occasional heroes rise within that storm of nightmarish
piracy and predation that we call our government and our legal system.
The thing I wanted to say about science is just that
it's just like any way of knowing, right? A way of knowing can be used for nefarious purposes.
So the fact that it can be used for nefarious purposes doesn't mean you give up on it. It
means you learn how to detect the difference between a nefarious application like when
Dow Chemical says glycophate isn't toxic and a noble purpose like when we
understand that it's very important to have vitamin D that we get from being in sunlight
and having good diets to remain healthy, right? So you don't throw the baby out with the bathwater
but you do look where people are throwing out babies, yeah? You notice that. You learn to develop
the intelligence that can vet arguments, research papers, conflicts of interest,
antitrust situations where there are monopolies and people protecting them.
And the problem essentially when the Republicans began attacking education was that they were
going to produce a generation of people that would identify with someone like Trump because
they're so identified with their own ignorance and opinions that that guy up there who can barely
speak English resembles them, right? That's the everyman standing up there declaring things that
aren't, that would need a catastrophic upgrade to become wrong. So this is part of why we're in
the situation we're in. Yes, I saw this coming 20 or 30 years ago or something, 30 years ago at least.
And ironically named my publication, Cyanosis, what meaning like we can't breathe anymore.
And now we have like a complex array of things that are threatening the capacity of ordinary people
to continue breathing. But what we're breathing in in our sociological, our sociopolitical and our
informational networks is at present and what we're circulating is mostly toxic, right? You've
got some people arguing for things that are relatively sane and other people arguing for
things that are blatantly insane. And no one's actually addressing the root issues or causes
that we must find a way to unify around in order to produce the possibility of a context intelligent
enough that it's survivable at first and then perhaps sustainable secondarily. And if we're
very lucky, begins to events features of nobility, of intelligence, of trustworthy orientation,
and trustworthy disambiguation. In other words, trustworthy derivation of identity
and meaning and relation and cause so that we're not just circulating new diseases all the time
invented by those who are intent upon our subjugation and or destruction, right? And this
is the task with which we are faced today. Now we've always been faced with this task. Indeed,
the pirates who founded our nation were kind of pissed because other pirates were stealing a
lot of their money. And I call them pirates because they came over here on boats and,
you know, sort of stole the land from indigenous people. Not that the land can be
owned or not owned, but, and I think the indigenous people for their part,
they didn't start trying to kill us off until we started trying to kill them off.
I think I suspect, I don't know what happened back then, but I suspect that
the indigenous people were willing to meet us as neighbors, right? And to grant us some
a place on the land, right? And to negotiate with us, perhaps even to welcome us. But we
didn't have the agenda of being neighbors, not we, of course, the people who came and did these
things long ago, which are not the same people as me and you. Whether or not we're continuing
their legacy is another story. But those people who came and did this, they didn't have the,
they didn't have the intention of being neighbors. They had the intention
of obliterating the Native American people and taking the land and the resources
that the American continent represented. And this is why in his brilliant book,
Breakfast of Champions, which if you haven't read it, please, please, this one's worth it,
by Kurt Vonnegut. There's a page on which it just says 1493. And Kurt goes on to say something like,
many American school children have seen their teacher write this on the chalkboard and claim
that it was the date that noble Europeans arrived on the continent ready to build civilization. But
it's actually the date when sea pirates came and raped and pillaged and killed everybody. And it's
just such a brilliant disambiguation, right? That it's very difficult not to fall in love with him.
And that book by itself is really, it's truly one of the greatest books I've ever read.
And it's an indictment of America. This is the first time I remember seeing
unripe walnuts on this incredible old walnut tree that is just exquisite.
There is,
science can be abused. Medical technologies can be abused. Medicine for profit,
in my view, is a bad fucking idea. And yet, we haven't yet established a context where
something else is reasonably possible, although there are little havens where something like
it begins to happen. Here in San Francisco, we have a program that gives everyone who can't
afford it, well, what they call free medical care. It's not actually free. They keep track of
the services you,
the services that you obtain. And they keep an accounting record of that. And who knows what
the accounting looks like. And they, then upon your death, they sue your estate or,
you know, they attach your estate for whatever those costs are, presuming you have any, you know,
you leave any kind of an estate. So it's not precisely free, but it's pretty close.
And many Americans are so poorly educated that they can't tell the difference between taking
care of our own people and what they're worried about when they think of communism.
When they think of, you know, China or Soviet-era Russia or Cuba or something like this.
Unfortunately, again, it's a problem with education. If you can just dumb down the American populace
enough, they can pretty much be had. You can own them. They'll become your slaves. They'll fight
each other for you. Meanwhile, you can kind of float up on the high mountaintop in your little
castle of, you know, millions or billions of dollars and just sort of laugh while
the charade occurs down in the bizarre, you know, and unfortunate class wars that,
that, you know, broil underneath your entitlement. I don't know why I'm laughing. There's nothing
humorous about that. Maybe I'm laughing to keep myself from starting to cry on camera.
Cronism is a real problem in our culture.
And others have commented on this problem and I'll not belabor it here.
But the problem that we're facing now as common American people,
that's what I mean by we, we who are modern Americans and people who live in America,
in the United States, I won't speak for other nations. And really, I mean,
can I speak for anything other than what I know? Can I speak for anything outside of
my little neighborhood in San Francisco? Not very well, because what do I know of that? I know news.
Well, I mean, in what way does that connect me with anything? That just connects me with the
with a kind of a continuum of malignancy, right? So what do I really know about Arkansas or,
you know, Alabama, Louisiana? And what do I know about the South?
I know a few people who live there. We talk occasionally, electronically mostly.
But what I'm trying to get at is
because there's no good central organizing principle that unites us,
the people are fragmenting and they're identifying with their opinions.
And many of them are too poorly educated to understand whether an argument is even possible,
let alone whether it is sound. And that's a tragedy
that I place at the feet primarily of the conservative right,
whose intention it definitely was to produce and ensure the continuation of this specific problem
so that they could retain a stranglehold on the power and the wealth and the resources
that can be extracted from both our countries, ecologies, and our country's populations.
And that is a fundamentally a crime against humanity. It's also a crime against the history
and future of life on earth, which I would argue is a far greater and more egregious violation,
one that certainly qualifies as rape, but both of them qualify as rape.
Rape does not only mean sexual violation, though that's the context we commonly use this term in.
It also means an incredible egregious violation, unjustifiable violation.
So for the moment and for the foreseeable future, we're going to see,
unfortunately, a broad gamut of human wildly confusing and confused misbehavior, impudence,
arrogance, ignorance, violence, deprivation, pain, suffering, torture, imprisonment, war.
And right now the war, there is a civil war presently afoot. It's just not being fought yet
with physical weapons. It's being fought with opinion, news, information, electronic media.
And the forces that are winning aren't human, most of them, though some fraction of them are.
And it's very easy to see that people like Rupert Murdoch have these intentions,
they hold these intentions to profit from the catastrophic failure to educate
and ensure the well-being of the American people with the resources we've extracted
from the earth and that originally belong to the indigenous people who lived here.
It is evening and I will rest from my labors for the moment and thank you for joining me.
I hope I've shed some modest degree of light on the moment in which we live and the confusions
within it with which we are faced. May we reach for higher ground together and find a way
through the incredible darkness that currently intrudes upon our lives and minds and hearts and
families and living places. Bye bye for now.
you
