I'm thinking today about a topic that often occupies my mind, my curiosity, my attention,
the topic of consciousness, and since consciousness is that with which we name and categorize and
evaluate and identify experiences, or at least, I mean, there are different ways to use this word,
right? We can use it in such a way that it indicates primarily verbal conceptual activity,
one of my friends who's a neuroscientist prefers this definition, and it's, you know,
the definitions turn out to be important because if we've not clarified the categories and
distinctions, then our thinking is going to be muddled up because we haven't. We don't have a
clear structure on which to weave yet, and so our weaving is likely to be disorganized. So,
we have a variety of different terms, terms like consciousness, awareness, experiencing,
and I suppose when I'm using, at least in the moment while I'm using the word consciousness,
what I mean is something like awareness and something like experiencing. I mean,
it's very difficult to define these things because we're trying to define that with which
we define, right? We're trying to look somehow at that with which we look. We're trying to feel
about that with which we feel. We're trying to know about that with which we know. These are
challenging little situations. So, to me, consciousness, at least in the conversation that
I'm having now or the lecture that I'm giving, it points at the aspect of being with which one
experiences while awake, although it has an analog that happens in dreaming that's very,
that's both similar and different from what happens while we're awake. So, I mean the relatively
organized aspect of awareness with which we experience, and perhaps we would like a better
word or I would like a better word for that with which we reflect upon experience, because that's
more of a knowledge or knowing-like aspect, and it's not the same thing really as the aspect with
which we have primary experience. I want to test something here.
There are small flying insects here, and there's a variety of different kinds that form little
clusters, and some of them are very sensitive to musical tones, which isn't terribly surprising,
but it's nonetheless entertaining. So, there's a kind of primordial aspect to awareness or
consciousness that precedes, it's sort of instantaneous, right? It's moment to moment,
and it precedes any kind of post-hoc thinking or categorization or evaluation or analysis,
naming, so on. So, I'm first going to speak about that. I'm going to speak about a little bit about
the aspect that is aware moment to moment in the moment, the experiencing aspect of awareness,
consciousness, and we don't actually have to have a name for it. We don't have to say, well,
that's consciousness, or that's awareness, or that's experiencing. Thankfully, I can point in the
direction, and most of my viewers will understand what it is I'm referring to, even though at the
moment, my awareness has an extra layer, which is that layer that is verbalizing, that's sort of
making mouth noises right now, and that's composing them. In some domain, I'm not, I have no focused
awareness of moment to moment, right? So, I'm not planning out my sentences, and then executing
those plans the way an explanation might imply. That's nothing like the experience that I'm having.
What I'm doing instead is I'm having an experience that we might associate with the idea of improvisation.
Moment to moment, I dance between the many possibilities of speech and what I might say,
and coherent orientation, directionality, topic, language, vocabulary, all these things, right?
There's like this vast constellation of underlying structure that I'm kind of dancing around on,
without having formal plans. And in fact, when I began this video, I didn't really know what I was
going to talk about. My inspiration was that I wanted to speak about how, about the fundamental
malleability, the transformable qualities, nature, and faculties that are available to us as human beings,
those particularly that are associated with our waking experience,
and how, under various circumstances, these transform. Now, whether or not their form changes
isn't really important. We can use this term as a kind of placeholder.
And we might make the analogy that this experiencing the sort of primal aspect,
before reflection, before naming, before categorization, before verbal conceptual awareness,
or consciousness, this primordial aspect that's having experience moment to moment,
and then perhaps even very slightly later reflecting upon it or categorizing it,
or determining whether it's normal or not, or what, in other words, evaluating it.
That primordial aspect can change, and children are adepts at changing it.
Adults have a word for this. The children later adopt the word in order to
have commensurate,
it's the right word, well commensurate permission and ideas and authorization from adults.
But initially children don't need this word, and in fact they wouldn't adopt it themselves,
they wouldn't invent it, they would just say that thing we do which is fun, or that activity
that is most fun, and that activity is play. And play involves the active improvisational
transformation of the foundations around which experience becomes coherent in,
well I'm inclined to say in the mind,
but it might be more truthful to say something different like
in the pre-formation of mindedness or something like this.
So the children have this awareness that most of the adults have either lost or,
unfortunately it has become much more limited in them in general.
So that for for many adults anyway, play is something that happens only in fairly structured
environments, and is not fundamentally the same thing that happened when they were very small,
when they were children, before they had developed layers and layers of structured ideation,
cognition, purpose of ideas, authorization schemas, language, explanations, descriptions,
so on and so forth.
So play is an experience of the immediate transformation of consciousness, but we
experience lots of different kinds of transformations, many of them seem relatively trivial, for example,
right now I am alone, but I am approaching someone who is sitting down drawing,
and when there is another person in near proximity, or when I feel that I might be
seen, or that my activity might affect someone else's privacy or
aloneness, then immediately my consciousness begins to change,
and I become at least aware, if not concerned, about the nature of the shared, you know, sharing the space.
And this is fundamentally common for human beings, we
are our awareness and our experience transforms immediately, if we think we might be being
observed, or if we think that we might be being evaluated,
or surveilled, or analyzed, this immediately transforms our consciousness, so that in walking
past the woman who is drawing, my experience of my own awareness and mind changes. Now I
can't say exactly how it changes, I can simply notice that I'm aware of a transformation in
the aspect of myself that is having experience, and I can analyze that in various ways or say
various things about it, but the thing that I want to note here is that
our experience and the sort of what we might refer to analogically as the shape,
and this is a simile, the shape of consciousness, which implies things about how it fits in
and relates with other surrounding, you know, phenomenon that's around it,
it changes. Humans are incredibly sensitive to the difference between
privacy, the experience I'm having by myself that is not being recorded, or surveilled, or analyzed,
and situations that are non-private, and our experience of this has transformed dramatically
over the past perhaps 20 years, as various technologies have been invented that either
partially or completely invade our privacy, and surveil us for purposes associated either
with convenience or entertainment or both, for other reasons as well, but these are the primary
headline, you know, purposes, and that's going to fundamentally change the nature of human
and consciousness and experience because we are the fact of our social underpinnings, the social
underpinnings of our minds, you know, we acquire minds and develop them in social contexts with
other human beings. This bizarre technological overlay is going to radically transform what it
means to have a human mind in ways that I think are likely to be profoundly deleterious and are
already showing, you know, strong signs of being so. Surveillance is unfriendly to human consciousness
and intelligence, to emotional well-being, to psychological health, and you can see in many
young people the onset of various kinds of malfunction that have to do with simulating
critical survey lores in their own minds, moment to moment, to the degree that they have difficulty
expressing themselves or forming a sentence, because in order to even formulate a thought,
it has to pass through a web of filters of authorization and potential critical judgment
that is so overwrought that they're incapable of improvising much, and under certain circumstances
that might change. For example, if they were to become intoxicated in various ways,
those certain kinds of intoxicants will increase their vulnerability to interior criticality,
whereas other kinds will decrease it. But my fundamental point, the beginning point, is just
that though I think it's important to notice that we're social animals and consciousness transforms
under observation, and friendly reassuring observation is a radically different input
than critical judgmental or analytical observation, and some of children's play depends on friendly,
encouraging, reassuring co-observation, and thus co-creation of what I would refer to as a paracosm,
an imaginary universe. And consciousness is for some fascinating reason,
excellent at producing paracosms and hungry to experience them. In case that isn't clear,
just look at the statistics for people who play video games. Video games are simulated paracosms,
and since we don't have the experience in our common daily lives of forming and experiencing
and interacting with and through paracosms together, we end up being taken advantage of,
in a sense, in a variety of dangerous senses by companies that produce simulations.
And so rather than having an exciting role to play in our waking adult consciousness,
we may turn to video games or sports or some other sociocultural construct
in order to at least have the vicarious experience
of having a meaningful role. But play and paracosms fundamentally allow us access to
roles that one way of defining them is to speak of them as avatars, right, as secondary personas
or tertiary personas.
So that, for example, I have secondary personas in the sense that I am a musician.
I have a secondary persona in the sense that I am someone who makes videos about topics related to
consciousness, non-ordinary experience, dreaming, philosophy, language, semantics, so on and so forth.
But I'm hungry for roles that essentially don't exist in our modern culture.
Roles that have an adventurous and heroic aspect to them.
Now, it's not that they absolutely don't exist.
At least in theory, I could somehow join like the Sea Shepherd Conservation Society, for example,
and try to interfere with the vessels that slaughter whales and something like this.
And then that would be, at least in my imagination, very exciting. And of course,
in children's play, they don't have to be subject, like they're able to explore
the transformation of consciousness and role transformation in a context where they don't
have to be worried about being killed by lions or bullets or drowning in the ocean or
having their parachute fail to open or being shot, whatever.
So we might say that there's a kind of innocence to play at the actual experience of, for example,
this guy named Damien, who used to be a, I think a special forces op in Australia who
now hunts poachers in Africa. That guy's living an actual very serious and potentially lethal and
also deadly role and is having an adventure every day, right? But I think most of us are hungry for
adventures that we're not having. And so in general, the context that we're in do not really support
the emergence or organization of such adventures. So we do things like travel, right? We go on
vacation. And there's some degree of adventure there, but there's not much of a role, right?
The role of spectator, it's a crappy role. It's very flat. It's not rich, developmentally or,
I mean, obviously it depends on who's inhabiting it and what their priorities and orientations are.
The role of traveler can be very rich, but in general, the role of spectator is pretty flat.
And take a lot of pictures and talk a little bit about the food you ate or something, right?
It's not going to be exciting. But my fundamental goal in the video today is actually just to talk
about the incredible malleability of consciousness. Its capacity to change shape. And there are a
variety of things that affect dramatically our ability to change shape. It's unfortunate you
can't see all my Italian hand movements that are happening like off to the side here as I'm talking,
right? But the way my camera works, it's like this. I think my videos would be a lot more
interesting if you could see the hand movements I was making. It'd be more interesting to me,
anyway. My face is not that interesting to me. And in fact, isn't really required. You can listen
to these videos without looking at me at all and probably just get almost as much out of them.
In any case, if I'm going to pose the idea that what I'm referring to as consciousness or awareness
or experiencing is dependent on a kind of shape-based
something we might analogize. Hang on a second. Wait for the machine.
Something we might analogize as a shape-based receiver in the same way that
cell membranes are highly sensitive to the shapes of, for example, protein molecules or other
chemistries. Our consciousness is receptive in a way that we can think of as analogous
to having a shape. And that shape, when it transforms, the nature of experience and
awareness transforms. And we have experience of this. It happens when we are tired. It happens
when we awaken. It happens under the influence of a variety of different intoxicants, such as alcohol,
marijuana, LSD, psilocybin, codeine, opiates, benzodiazepines, mescaline,
tobacco, caffeine. All of these substances modestly or dramatically transform the way
that we experience not only what's going on in the context we're immersed in,
but the sort of character and qualities of our own minds and in what ways they connect and interact
with experience. And there are other kinds of transformers, things like ceremony or hypnosis
that are profoundly effective in changing the nature of our moment-to-moment consciousness.
But my primary goal here is simply to highlight
that for ordinary people in day-to-day common contexts, the range of experience they are likely
to have while awake is incredibly narrow compared to what's actually available to them.
And I don't mean to suggest, for example, oh, well, they should take intoxicants and experience,
you know, that's not at all where I'm going. What I'm more interested in is the
non-ordinary transformations of consciousness that are available to us
in our relatively un-intoxicated minds through a variety of means that it might include ceremony
and could include trance, could include dancing, could include singing,
could also include adventures and inhabiting roles that we are unfamiliar with and are not
used to inventing for ourselves or celebrating together in our social circles. And those are
just a few of the opportunities that exist. Relating very intimately with any non-human
life form or living place is another avenue of transformation of consciousness that's available
to us. And we can also transform our consciousness not merely by adding things to our experience,
but by removing things from our experience. Things like constant exposure to news media,
which definitely, in my view, deforms not only our experience, but the fundamental
quality of our mental activity.
Interacting with what is currently referred to as social media is another thing we could
experience a transformation from deleting. Being relieved of being buried in noise of
various kinds, whether it's audible noise or electromagnetic noise or chemical noise,
can have a radical effect on the forms and potentials of our consciousness and our awareness.
Spending time in meaningful time in living places, not just not merely chasing our cell
phones around in a garden, but actually taking time to connect with the different plants and
animals and insects and birds and the various times of day, the morning, how it differs in the
morning, the afternoon, to the evening. In fact, those transformations of daylight change the
shape of our consciousness. So what I want to suggest is just that the modes of awareness
that many of us are familiar with comprise something so incredibly narrow as to essentially
qualify as a prison. Most of us are familiar with maybe three to five percent of the bandwidth
that our awareness and our intelligence and our consciousness natively
are natively
evolved to participate in.
And that to me seems tragic and is something I would very much like to transform. I'd like to see
people learn how to modulate their intelligence, their consciousness, and their awareness together
in such a way that we could experience a vastly broader spectrum and get experiences of some of
get experiences of some of the aspects of our humanity that are very distant
from our ordinary experience. And having had some experience of those things myself,
I feel absolutely certain that these things are not only possible, they're achievable.
I'm just wanting to examine something here.
These insects are not particularly sensitive, at least to the tone to the tonal range I was emitting.
The stuff we refer to as nature is nothing like what we've been taught to think in my perspective.
It actually represents a vast array of other
forms of awareness, intelligence, and potential that our form was made
or arose in, right, arose in synchrony and relation with. And as we lost and broke those
relationships, the array of modes accessible and familiar to us narrowed dramatically until
it became, again, almost prison-like. So for me, fundamentally, whatever it is that nature might
be, it's not much like what we tend to think about it. Trees are not in sentient chunks of wood.
Animals and insects aren't little instinct-programmed devices accidentally emergent from a bunch of
complex accidents in space-time. Rather, they are the faces and fingers and body of a transcendental
array. See, here's where the language fails. I can't say an array of what because it's a super
position above the categories we have in language, so I just don't know what to say.
The simplest thing I can say that's relatively trustworthy is just that the living forms
with which we're embedded here on earth and from which our own minds draw their
capacities for awareness and intelligence and have for, you know, hundreds of thousands or
millions of years, or actually vastly longer if we count time a little differently, and I mean
shockingly longer. These forms, they are, okay, in mechanical terms, the analogy, and this is a
grossly simplified analogy because in mechanical terms, interfaces are relatively primitive,
but the living forms that surround us in nature, the insects, the animals, the birds, the plants,
they are interfaces that lead upscale toward the origins of minds and beings. And long ago,
our species was profoundly familiar with these interfaces, understood them as such,
and could travel in the networks that they lead to. Excuse me for a moment.
Now, that's just one perspective, and the actual thing that's going on is vastly more interesting
than anything I can pose to you in ordinary structured language. And many people will find
what I'm talking about like some will find it fascinating, others will find it nonsensical
or ridiculous. That's okay, I'm not trying to convince anyone of anything. I'm trying instead
to encourage those people who are capable of reawakening the capacities for the transformation
of consciousness, awareness, and intelligence, the transformations that are accessible to us
as human beings. I want those people to feel encouraged and perhaps inspired to continue
their quests, and particularly those quests that do not involve
the use of various kinds of formal intoxicants of substances that intoxicate us.
Because I want people, before they get any experience of that, I want them to have an
experience of the natural flexibility, range of scope, and transformative depth available
to ordinary waking consciousness. That range and scope is catastrophically huge. It's so gigantic
that the tiny subset of that range, represented for example by psychedelic drugs, is trivial
and unnecessary.
So my goal essentially is to simply remind both myself and other people who are interested
that consciousness and awareness can transform. And when they do, what they see and participate in,
what they prioritize and can communicate with changes, how they communicate changes.
We love entrancing performances where actors or dancers or musicians
create a context in which the fundamental nature of our consciousness transforms.
And our kind of species, our kind of animal, is fundamentally sensitive to context and to
invitation and also prohibition, these two things, invitation and prohibition. When we invite each
other to change consciousness, to change the forms of our consciousness together, that happens
relatively naturally, right? It simply follows from the invitation and the agreement to do so
that our consciousness and our capacity to have new forms of experience, new forms of
awareness, new forms of intelligence, new ways of communicating, new participants in our
communications contexts, is a natural repercussion of that transformation.
And so too, prohibition has a certain kind of effect, although it's much less
simple to classify the effects that arise from prohibition, but the
connection between invitation and prohibition, right? This is very profound for human beings.
And again, it's crucially important that we are aware of
the power of being observed. It's relatively a simple matter to understand the deleterious
aspects of observation where we're being criticized or analyzed or diagnosed or so on and so forth,
but there are a vast array of incredibly positive aspects of observation
when we are, for example, in ceremonial agreement or when we come together under an array of
agreements that are liberating and give us the capacity to embody roles that are adventurous,
exciting, inspired, ecstatic, profoundly human, non-human, non-ordinary, so on and so forth.
And this is part of why role-playing games, for example, or incredibly popular, why computer
games are popular, is because people are starving for this, like millions of people are starving
for roles that are more interesting than I get up, I go to work, I come home, I make the food,
I eat the food, I go to bed, or even, you know, we get up, we make, you know, we do this together,
we're a family, we, you know, whatever, we generate children, we have sex, whatever it is we're doing.
We ski, we run, we, you know, try to get some kind of physical inaction of our humanity going.
So I think there's vast potential in the capacity to form small, tightly knit groups
that encourage each other under the auspices of agreement and or ceremony to travel together
in the range of possibilities that are human intelligence and consciousness, that are, that
are native to our human intelligence and consciousness, but which we so very rarely
experience because we are so rarely exposed to such contexts and we, most of us, are very
unpracticed at generating them yet. I am hoping that will change. I am hoping we can learn together
how to generate the contexts that naturally transform the shapes and activities and
connectivities of our intelligence and our awareness. And I know this is possible,
I've seen it done thousands of times, and there's all kinds of sort of fossilized
remains of the human capacity for this floating around in our modern culture, things like soccer
games, ball games, combat sports. I mean, you can see people transforming, just observing these,
not even, they don't even have it, their role is spectator, and they're so transformed by just being
a part of the audience at a rock concert or, you know, a hip hop gig or whatever. They're so
transformed just by being a part of the audience that you must recognize that, A, they're starving
for that transformation, B, that transformation is somehow ecstatic, really profound, shockingly
significant, and C, it's a replacement for something we're not doing together yet,
and we could be, and I think we will, I think we're gonna have to. And hopefully we will discover
together and invent ways that are, ways to do this in purposes for which we do it,
that are trustworthy and intelligent, profound, evocative of the essential
true nature of our humanity and origin and participation in nature, in living places,
with living beings, so that we will not walk through our lives having seen and experienced only
a very tiny portion of the forms of awareness and roles that we, I think, were born to embody
and experience. And unfortunately that's a tragedy that has become unimaginably contagious in modern
times. Perhaps together we'll build a bridge beyond it so that our children will not have to
suffer the deprivations and catastrophic losses of meaningful roles, identities, lives, occupations
that are so endemic to our modern circumstance.
The sun is beginning to set.
The garden is beautiful. Thank you for joining me and for considering
these questions and perspectives together. I'm very grateful to have this opportunity to share
and learn and explore and grow together. Thank you.
you
