Hello everybody.
I am back in the Botanical Garden, one of the greenest and most living places that's
near where I dwell.
And this is how it looks in here today.
It's beautiful.
Although it's a very busy day here in the gardens, partly because it's Sunday.
Today we've named after the sun, and the day we associate with not having to work.
Many people have Sunday off of work.
And so today there are many people and families in the gardens.
And I am sensitive about having a device in my hand.
I strongly avoided smartphones and even cell phones for many, many years.
When I first came to San Francisco, I was a technician.
I was an Apple systems integrator.
And I built publishing systems for magazines and newspapers and graphic designers.
I built systems for lawyers and architects.
And I managed Macintosh based networks.
I first began to learn about computers in the 1980s.
And one of my first projects on an Atari 800 gifted to me by my friend Martin Peters.
Before he went off to college, Martin would later go on to become an employee at Google.
One of my first projects was to build, that I set up for myself, was to build a Tic Tac
toe game in basic that would win if it were possible to win.
And I remember being extremely intrigued and fascinated by computing devices throughout
most of my young life.
And I was very interested in the idea of artificial minds having been a reader of science fiction.
Most of my young life probably read at least seven to ten thousand science fiction stories.
Science fiction authors were my primary mentors.
And they seemed to me a species apart, a different kind of human being capable of insights and
understandings about culture, technology, possibility, intelligence and other subjects.
The ordinary people were very unlikely to have any awareness of or relationship with.
And so for my early days in childhood, I was reading science fiction by the time I was
six or seven.
I looked up to the authors of what would later become called speculative fiction, SF.
And here I am in SF, San Francisco, the place named after Saint Francis of Assisi, a saint
famous for having an incredible relationship with animals and the living world.
I'm here now at the small bamboo forest in the gardens.
And there's a wonderful music to this bamboo forest.
And just on the other side of it, there's a terrible nightmare of noise that is pretty
much constant, unrelenting.
As a technician, I watched and was fascinated by the growth of technologies that allowed
ordinary human beings to, ordinary people to publish things.
And I was fascinated by fonts and graphic design and publishing.
And long ago, I published an art and literary journal, a relatively radical one called Cyanosis.
Because back in the 80s, it became apparent that the Republicans were going to attack
directly assault the arts and education funding, which they did very successfully, which is
part of why we're in the political situation we find ourselves in now.
And I felt that arts and education, in their truest sort of incarnation or forms, were
like oxygen in the social bloodstream.
And that as the funding for those crucial infrastructure aspects of our culture and society
was stolen, essentially, our culture and society would become cyanotic, which Cyanosis is a
term that means turning blue.
That's the bluish tint, it's a medical term that refers to the bluish tint of the skin
when we've been deprived of oxygen.
And so in the beginning of my adulthood in the 80s, I was fascinated with computing technologies
and I became relatively expert with them.
And for a long time made my living supporting installations, building and supporting installations
of computers.
And this was before the internet back in the days when we had what were called BBSs or
bulletin board systems.
We would dial in with a modem that was basically the computer's analog of a telephone and
it would hook up to a telephone line.
And the modem would make some chirping noises as it matched speed and error correction protocols
with the receiving modem.
And that would connect you to a computer somewhere where you might have an account, you would
generally need an account, you would log in and you could then access the resources that
were shared on that computer, which generally included things like games and schematics and
blueprints for technologies like blue boxes and red boxes, early hacking technologies,
games and programs that had had their protections cracked so that they could be shared, so on
and so forth.
And there were, you know, something like chat rooms.
And back then there was a relatively small segment of the population that was interested
in and capable of interacting with these technologies.
Over time that grew, the internet was born, email began to become accessible if not common
in the beginning, and email was a technology that was very confusing for a lot of people
and it damaged a lot of relationships because we were not prepared for the dangers of communicating
in text.
And in fact very few people even think much about this topic.
It's become second nature for human beings moderns to communicate in text on their smartphones
constantly.
However, I still find it to be disoriented and disorienting.
I watched as the internet was born and I began to become very suspicious about our relationships
with computing technology.
When devices began to invade our private time, and so we no longer had anything like private
time, we were essentially always reachable.
And once I realized that email had been very dangerous and had caused a lot of trouble
for human relationships, I became skeptical, I started to become skeptical about technology
in general.
And that was the beginning of my understandings that would lead to a variety of reorientation
experiences.
And during that period I avoided entirely having a cell phone.
And when smartphones were introduced I avoided those as well.
And instead of participating, I observed the effects on people and relationships and environments
and minds and consciousness and awareness that these handheld devices imposed on people
who were largely unaware of the dangers they were facing and nearly completely unequipped
to cope with the threats that these devices impose on our lives and consciousness.
And it's not my purpose today to talk at length about this topic.
I introduce it merely because I am aware that I am now holding one of these devices in my
hand in a garden, in a sanctuary, and utilizing it in a way that I find very conflicted with
my ethos.
I find it astonishing that most of the people who walk around in this garden have one of
these devices in their hands, some of them at all times.
And rather than participating in the environment and really seeing it and being present in
it, though there is a man over here meditating, they are experiencing it second hand through
the mediation of an extremely sophisticated piece of technology that has become a satellite
for our awareness, or so we think.
I suspect that something more like the opposite is true.
More awareness is becoming a satellite of devices and the specific types of transactions
and relationships that emerge from our present technological and sociocultural contexts.
And I think these relationships and projections are lethally toxic to our intelligence, to
our humanity, to our metabolism, to our sleep, to our dreaming, to our bodies, to our relationships,
and even to our cultures.
And we're not going to get rid of them, barring a broad scale catastrophe that reduces us
to a pre-technological state, which is not inconceivable.
The false symbiosis, the abiosis of our relationship with objects and machines, computing technologies,
what we call smartphones, ironically.
We'll continue and deepen over time.
And the most likely outcomes of that are future generations completely deprived of faculties.
They will never have the slightest experience of because before those faculties can even
develop, they will be replaced by crude representations posed by the structure and functions of the
devices that we currently hold in our hands.
I'd like to see something other than that take place.
I'd like to see humanity learn to relate intelligently, survivably, creatively, and also cautiously
with our potential to invent technologies.
This has never been the case.
In fact, what's been going on from my perspective is that we've been dumping something like
social, relational, intellectual, creative, developmental momentum.
We've been dumping this momentum into war and machines.
And our minds and societies have been devolving.
They've been taking the hits of this lost developmental momentum.
And I expect that that process will probably continue.
Society will stratify.
There will be an elite technological class, an elite wealth class above them, and pretty
much everyone else under there is going to become slaves.
Presuming we survive the incredibly profuse array of threats and challenges that our current
relationships with war machines and computers represent.
So unless we make a sharp turn, unless somebody gets an idea and is able to implement something
so compelling that we simply change course, and that is not inconceivable, the future for
us and living things on our world, particularly the anciently conserved ecologies and the
complex animals and the oceans and the rivers and the lakes and the waters, looks very grim
to me, very grim indeed.
And the humans suspect, I think they think that they are separate from those things.
One day they will discover it, that that's not possible.
It's not possible for that to be true.
And as the complexity and the environment is eroded and obliterated, our own minds and
bodies will transform in a very immediate way.
And once we begin to sense that directly or notice it or discover that, it will be too
late to reverse it.
We won't be able to bring back the complexity of life and relationships, consciousness and
souls that were the birthplaces of our minds.
So you could see me as a technician who's become what can be referred to as a Luddite,
and the Luddite movement began in Europe with people who were very upset at the introduction
of factory machinery that replaced their already slave-like jobs upon which their lives depended.
And those people became saboteurs, sabote in French, of course I don't speak French,
I only know this from reading so I may be mispronouncing it, but sabote in French means
shoe, and the saboteurs threw shoes into the mechanisms and the factories to damage or
destroy the machinery that was replacing their already slave-like tasks.
The term Luddite comes from an author who wrote at great length about the threat that
machines posed and was generally opposed to industrialization, a reasonable thing to
oppose.
But in the modern situation we face something far more confusing, conflicted and complex.
Every aspect of our lives and consciousness is consistently subjected.
We are bathed in the signals of machines at a cellular level, moment to moment.
We are subject to the communication signals that connect devices to each other.
And while we may not consciously detect those signals though, it appears some human beings
are capable of this.
It's very clear that animals and insects can not only detect them, they can be damaged
or destroyed by them, and so too can we.
At the level of the cell we are much more susceptible to our technologies than we've
yet imagined, and the testing that we're capable of doing is a far too narrow scope to guarantee
or assert, to realistically assert the safety of these technologies.
It should be obvious that that which affects our cellular metabolism is certain to dramatically
affect our health and cognition.
And so I am very concerned for the future.
Although I suffer some of the effects of the infusion of signaling and computing technologies
that currently exists, I won't be around all that long.
Not in this body anyway.
So I am primarily concerned for those who will come after me.
Though I also feel the impact in my current relational environment, which is highly technological,
I live in a metropolis, I feel that impact every day.
And it's strange to me to see people walking around with devices in their hands appearing
to follow their devices as even I do now.
It's a very bizarre and dystopian future that I've found my way into, and it's disorienting
and disoriented.
And I think fundamentally confused.
Our relationships with devices have not only transformed our bodies, minds, cultures, relationships,
potentials, thought, and dreaming, they've transformed our experience of priority, of
authorization, of necessity, of importance.
For most of my young life, although I spent some time in front of a television, I spent
zero time with computers, smartphones, and the technologies that are everywhere around
us today.
When I got in the car, I navigated with maps in my mind, chose routes, set routes, memorized
routes.
When I wanted access to information, I went to libraries or bookstores to discover what
was available.
I went physically to them.
And I related with physical objects made from trees called books.
And to this day, I vastly prefer the experience of reading a book to reading anything electronically.
I don't read books electronically.
I need to hold them in my hand.
My relationship with the object is crucially important for various aspects of my memory.
I remember where within the book a certain chunk of text was, I remember where on the
page it was, which side it was on, and having the book in my hand and relating with it as
a physical object is crucially important to me.
And to mention the fact that I prefer to spend as little time looking at a screen as possible
in this phase of my life.
Although in order to make these videos, it is required that I do so.
When I was young, I was a futurist.
Now that I'm older, I am its opposite.
I've become a pastist.
I want to return to the before of the machines I dreamed would empower our people.
Because of course, when I was young in reading science fiction, along with dystopian models
of the future, there were many utopian models.
We were taught that we would come to live in a world where machines liberated us from
the ancient evils we have so long suffered and sustained, war and poverty, hunger, disease.
But that those things are all actually evils, it's very important that we recognize that
the survival of single human beings and of particular kinds of culture and so on and
so forth is maybe not the most important priority we can have even though we were trained to
think in this rather bizarre format, template.
But yes, when I was young in the 60s and 70s, companies like Dow Chemical and Monsanto
that funded Tomorrowland at Disneyland, companies like Bayer that have become seething monstrosities
of omnicidal corporate behavior, painted to us a picture of a future where we were liberated
and had anti-gravity devices and could travel freely at will, where pollution was gone,
disease had been conquered, war was no longer necessary and everyone would be provided for.
Boy is that not what happened.
Instead, we got pretty much the opposite.
We got the obliteration of ecologies, the anciently conserved ecologies as predicted
by many naturalists.
We got nations spending tens of trillions of dollars on wars that were not only unnecessary
but often simply invented for the purpose of building more war machines.
Instead of electric vehicles and anti-gravity, we got gigantic combustion engine vehicles,
ships and aircraft that obliterate the environment.
New diseases arose, cancer rates skyrocketed, cancer types skyrocketed, Alzheimer's and
dementia statistics increased dramatically.
We detonated enough nuclear warheads testing them to qualify for a full-scale nuclear war
and we fell prey to many of the predictions of people like Alvin Toffler who wrote Future
Shock in the 70s.
An absolutely prescient work about how the increased pace and information overload would
dramatically alter what it means to be human.
And there are many features of the now which was the future of my childhood that we are
unaware of, that we have not yet discovered many threats and dangers and lethalities.
Of course lethal doesn't merely refer to deadly, it also refers to forgetting.
The River Lethe is a mythical river that we are dipped in between our incarnations that
washes us clean of the memory of our previous lives before we are reincarnated.
And many of the technologies and situations that we currently experience are lethal in
the sense that they fundamentally damage our relationship with memory.
And memory is the basis of our intelligence, the basis of our minds, the basis of our consciousness.
Although we might say underneath memory, memory is a layer on top of ecology, right?
So that with which we relate, whether it's living or mechanical, predisposes us to certain
species of memorial form, potential and activity.
And in case it isn't obvious, our relationship with machines, primarily these days, is obliterating
many aspects of memory that once were common.
There are stories of indigenous people who knew specifically pharmacopias of thousands
or tens of thousands of plants, thousands or tens of thousands of different insects,
what their relationships were, the medicinal properties of these plants and insects, the
behavioral forms of the plants and insects, their temporal relationships, moon to moon,
the transformations that living places would undergo, and they knew these living places
in a way so intimate as to qualify for a kind of, as a kind of marriage.
And so when the elders would pass through a place, memories of all kinds of historical
events and moments and relationships would rise to their minds, and in a sense they existed
as participants in a living library, though a library is still not the right analogy,
not correct enough.
They were the anatomical organs of living places, creatures and relationships, so profound
that our modern minds are incapable of entertaining them.
We no longer have the capacity to entertain these kinds of intimacies, these forms of
memory, these aspects of relation.
It's funny it was no part of my intention today to make this particular video, rather
I intended to speak at length on, to expand on topics I introduced yesterday in a video
on dreaming.
But sometimes I'm sensitive, actually I'm always sensitive, but sometimes I'm sensitive
to the peculiarities of the moment and situation I'm actually in, and plans are sidelined to
respond to what's actually just going on with me in the moment.
And that's what has happened today.
So here I am holding this device, which I did not actually purchase, the device was
given to me by an employer, and it's my first smartphone, and I acquired it in, if I remember
correctly, 2018.
Prior to that I did have an iPad, small one, little one, that I used to experiment with
so that I could understand what I was seeing and the behavior of people around me as they
were related with what they call apps, on their handheld devices.
And even that was a profoundly transformative imposition.
Within a few weeks of just using Skype on that iPad, I found myself in dreaming having
experiences I never had in the actual world.
I never took the iPad out of my house, ever.
And I used it very infrequently, but it showed up in my dreams, I'd find myself in a dream
looking for a Wi-Fi hotspot, or when I was dreaming of a place that was different from
my expectations.
When I found myself in a dream, in a place where it seemed the roads had changed, in
my dream I used my iPad to attempt to access Google Maps, again, a thing I never did in
the actual world.
I never saw an Wi-Fi hotspot, a Wi-Fi hotspot, because I had no Wi-Fi devices with me.
I never used Google Maps because I carried no devices when I was out in the world.
And then I got this device.
Previously I made videos in my room with a camera connected to my computer.
Now I make videos walking in a garden.
Both situations have advantages and disadvantages, but I am aware here in the garden of how disruptive
I would find it if someone else were doing what I am doing.
I see this as a sanctuary.
To be following a device in my hand through this garden is so incredibly ironic that I
know not how to justify it.
I don't have to control the behavior of other people.
Other people use the technologies as they see fit.
And many of them are so busy taking photographs of things or responding to text messages or
using apps on their phones that they are largely not present.
And by the way, just outside this garden is the world of boxes and machines.
Of cell phone antennas and Wi-Fi hotspots.
In my room alone there are probably between 50 and 70 active Wi-Fi signals.
And that gigantic antenna, let's see if I can get this in the picture here, above where
I live there is an enormous antenna that dominates the entire landscape.
It's called Sutro Tower and it's been there since I came here.
It sits atop a hill above the UCSF hospital and is a landmark for this area.
It's bathing everything in electromagnetic radiation, which apparently the moderns think
of as primarily harmless.
I suspect that to be impossible.
This is a Brugamencia, a detoura, sometimes called the Devil's trumpet.
It is rumored that the scent and pollens of this plant induce various kinds of dreaming
or even unconsciousness.
So yes, I'm carrying this device through a garden, following it around in my hand as
I've seen countless others do.
I recall a situation where in a mother's right hand she was staring at her cell phone, holding
with her left hand, her daughter's hand, her little four-year-old daughter's hand, and
her daughter let go of her mother's hand and was just looking at her own hand, as if
to wonder, why don't I have a box in my hand like my mother has in her hand?
Where is my smartphone?
The child is trying to understand why her hand doesn't have the attachment that her mother
is absolutely, attentionally compelled by all throughout the day.
So it's ironic.
My desire to make these videos has encouraged me to suspend my ethos.
An ethos that is oriented toward deep participation with living places and presence in nature,
presence in my own humanity, in my awareness, in consciousness, in creativity, in imagination,
in dreaming, in intelligence.
I have suspended the protections I have so long cultivated for the sake of producing
these videos.
They are not all that I do.
I still have time in nature without the machine.
But more and more as I've gotten used to making videos and enjoyed and become excited by
exploring ideas, hopefully together with others of similar interest and concern, I'm losing
the protective shell I so carefully tended.
And that's having relatively severe effects on my life, my heart, my mind, my dreaming,
my health, for I am a very sensitive person and the introduction of machines into places
in my life long reserved for relationships, and presence, and awareness.
Has very profound effects.
And I suspect that it has very profound effects on everyone.
The problem is that, like the analogy, which may or may not be true, of a frog in slowly
heated water, as long as the initial disjunction is not too severe, we don't notice the loss
of faculties, and the reason we don't notice the loss of faculties is that faculties is
what we notice with.
So as those decline in sensitivity and are submerged in the constant demands and distractions
and attention transformations that these relationships with modern technology impose on us, or that
we choose to participate in because they are common and modern and understood to be necessary
or required for our vocations, our jobs, for our relationships.
They are expected in many domains, particularly in places like this, where in a metropolis
where everything is relatively modern, electronicized, apt up, there's Lyft and Uber and 50 different
ways to do banking, and thousands of ways to have things delivered to us, apparently
one of the fundamental enemies of our intelligence, our humanity, our attention, and our complexity
is a peculiarly supposed virtue we call convenience.
And it is this convenience, this desire and drive for convenience that is partially driving
our cognitive and social devolution into functions, and that is tragic.
And it's something that we can individually choose to distinguish ourselves from.
We still have most of us some degree of the liberty to choose remaining to us, though
future generations will find that degree gravely reduced.
It's still conceivable for us to exist, quote, off the grid, unquote, though fewer and fewer
of us will do so.
In a way, I am a dinosaur, I am a dying species, particularly here in the United States.
There may be places where people are not yet completely hypnotized by technology, and there
are certainly individuals who choose to use it either very sparingly or nearly not at
all, particularly I hear speak of electronic technologies primarily.
But I am aware that, you know, at least for the moment in this phase of history, homo
technologous is on the horizon, and homo sapiens is being transformed.
And I mean that both in the ordinary sense of the word and in the sort of schizogenic
sense of the word, we're being transformed.
We become entranced by devices and machines.
And it's a very, very dangerous game that we're playing.
Not really much of a game at all.
More in my mind of a dance with death, with a loss of memory, the loss of intelligence,
the loss of relationships, the trivialization of our interiority, our humanity, the faculties
with which we might sense and avoid danger.
All of these things are changing very, very rapidly.
In fact, this rapidity of transformation is part of what Alvin Toffler was warning us
about in future shock in the 70s.
The book was way too far ahead of its time to be deeply understood by most individuals,
though it was easily understood by political organizations, corporations, technological
communities, such as those that develop around the production of advanced weaponry, DARPA,
IRPA.
So there were subcultures that would deeply influence supercultures that paid very close
attention to both the dangers and the opportunities posed by the sudden technological transformations
that computing devices would become.
And that's still true today.
Corporations like Google and Facebook, Twitter and Instagram are not really corporations.
They are the next generation of what we would refer to more properly as societies.
They are supercultures.
They stand above and outside our societies, and their activities and their activities
profoundly instruct influence and motivate what we currently understand as our human
identities, relationships, social interactions, priorities, to such a staggering degree that
it's very surprising it could remain invisible to most of us, and yet it does.
Having studied the onset of these technologies for many years, I have a vision of another
path, a path forward where we have the opportunity to utilize the technologies in ways that don't
obliterate our memory, that enhance our social and relational opportunities and intelligence,
and that protect us from the looming specter of total domination by electronic supercultures.
Because we're nearing an epoch where machines will be able to directly sense our heart
rates, our pupil dilation, our pulse, our eye movements, our facial expressions, and
translate those into analytic data.
Since that potential has been firmly established, the capacity to directly manipulate human
metabolism, minds, relationships, and intelligence will be upon us.
Unless, again, there's some kind of vast catastrophe, this is the future we will face in the very
near term, and unless we establish something better, ordinary humans will become function
fodder for machines and electronic supercultures. We can establish something better. We're
not going to avoid the onset of this technology, so it's very important that we work proactively
to establish something where we are the beneficiaries of the analytics that are produced by our electronic
relationships and activities, and corporations have to pay us, essentially, for very limited
access to anonymized data from those analytics.
Right now, essentially, we are like enslaved people building pyramids of cash for corporations
that already dominate our lives, but will eventually completely dominate our humanity.
And I think it's very important that we take another path, or at least make an inspired
effort to establish a range of other paths that could outcompete the very crude and manipulative
situation that we currently find ourselves in. That situation is intolerable to me.
It's a form of invisible subjugation that's more contagious than any of the diseases that
we presently find ourselves concerned with. So it's my hope, and I have models of systems
that we could build that would invert that structure, that would give us the intelligence,
and access to opportunities, and vocations, and ways of being human that would allow us
to adventure together into a future we can build intelligently, and would allow us to
form something that actually resembles intelligent society. This seems to me to be one of the
most crucial social and technological imperatives our species has ever faced. If we do not do
this very soon, the seeds of the electronic supercultures we are currently participating
in will obliterate and transform vast domains of our human potential, experience, intelligence,
social and relational opportunities. And we will not benefit from that. That will be
an incredibly dark and fatal transformation. I don't know what's going to happen. I don't
know whether we're going to see the onset of an array of contenders that can out-compete
the existing electronic supercultures, but I can imagine a model that could succeed at
that, and I have such a model. I call it the Intelligent Sam, and it's comprised of five
or six components which I'll not hear, elaborate on. I've been sitting on this model for about
12 years, so it's relatively old, and I don't know if I'll get a chance to build something
like this or to inspire its construction, but it's desperately needed. I don't know
if Google and Facebook and Instagram and Twitter and their progeny continue to dominate our
social and relational environments and to abstract analytic data from our electronic
activity. We're headed for an apocalypse, a social apocalypse, an intellectual apocalypse,
a memorial apocalypse. We must develop technologies that preserve the faculties inherent and fundamentally
crucial to the nature of our humanity as animals, as organisms, as living beings. And we must
also find ways to act very quickly to preserve the environment, the living places, the remaining
animals, because what will happen generally is that as the age of scarcity, we're in the dawn
of this age of scarcity, and what's going to happen there is just that the corporations
and supercultures will as rapidly as possible convert the remaining resources to assets,
and that will also be apocalyptic. So we're facing catastrophe on a wide range of fronts,
and unless we can do something very creative and humane and intelligent, I'm afraid the
future will make our dystopian science fiction look tame. We're right on the verge of that
right now, and it's my desperate hope that we can choose another path, that we can catalyze
new kinds of human cooperation, interaction, potential, priorities, that we can build an
escape hatch from the nightmare in which we're currently enmeshed. That is my dream. I have
a model of it. I'm sure there are at least a few others of similar mind.
But it's a very, very delicate situation. So for the moment, I'll thank you for traveling
with me and apologize for the relatively shadowy terrain we've traversed together today. And
yet I think it's important terrain to examine. So I'm glad to have taken the opportunity
to do so, and I welcome your comments, sharing questions and thoughts, even your objections.
Thank you for joining me. For now, I return to the living networks and the joyful awareness
but for the moment, if not robust, I'll thank you for joining me today. Thank you.
At least they still exist and are accessible to our awareness, participation and intelligence.
