It's a foggy day, or evening, and dark, today.
And I've been listening to the living place and learning.
It might be a little noisy wind for a bit. Maybe I should walk with the wind on the high terrain.
And if I'll walk in a circular path in the lower terrain, it may be easier not to generate noise as I walk against the wind.
Except that into the wind is different from against as people who use sailing vessels understand viscerally.
Because they've extended, just as we do when we ride a bicycle or walk or drive a car, they've extended their interiority over and beyond a vessel.
Now the language is inexact, and I want us to remain aware of how the language is a series of games that most of us have not been trained to understand in a deep way.
Right now I'm walking into the direction of the wind. However, it's not blasting me in the face, and probably isn't perceptible on the microphone.
When we begin to extend our awareness, which is something that takes practice, particularly in the contexts many of us are used to finding ourselves in moment to moment, day to day, task to task, problem to problem, loss to loss, benefit to benefit.
It takes practice to understand in a way that we can enact how to relate intelligently.
And when the person who is sailing a boat is doing this, they're not merely extending their awareness and maybe even their idea of self to some degree to the boat, they're extending it to the weather, to transformations in the context, the water.
And in that sense, they're establishing a superposition above how consciousness and purpose and orientation and perspective would otherwise be different and perhaps more collapsed.
In other circumstances, such as walking.
We have a unique library of capacities as human beings.
For awareness, which I'll here propose comes before consciousness as proto to consciousness. And consciousness can be understood, or I'll ask that we think of it this way, as proto to cognition, which is more or less formal conceptual linguistic ways of thinking.
Now there's going to be a little wind, maybe in the mic.
Our species is vulnerable. And the fact of our being representational animals, the fact that we can depart sensing active sensing relational integrity awareness.
Hey there.
Into abstractions and models and representations.
It's really important to understand that we are trained to engage in this departure from childhood.
And some of us sustain an awareness of this.
And we have practices that bring us back into active sensing relational integrity, conscious integrity, cognitive integrity.
So that we like someone sailing a ship in waters within seemingly invisible currents.
We can navigate in ways that, if not intrinsically beneficial, cause less harm, are less wrong as we go along.
In words like harm and wrong, these terms represent very extreme collapses of concept to a derivative.
That's deceptive because it takes a field, a constellation of innumerable situations and participants and processes and histories and futures, and collapses them down to a deliverable.
Harm, wrong.
And what's lost there is the actual diversity of relationship and opportunity, threat, benefit.
The degree to which things are good or bad intrinsically may not even exist.
It's a shadow that language casts upon our capacities to purposefully disambiguate something that has attracted our attention or concern.
And many of us as we age crystallize toward habits that cause something like decoherence in sensing, metabolism, relationships, participation, identity, awareness.
And this is in part because we have acquired a library of habits whose character is not intrinsically perverse.
Yet, our practice of these habits, our common collapse into these habits, certainly is, particularly as we move up from individuals to groups to collectives to societies and institutions and so on.
Daniel Schmockenberger was talking about something he referred to as the perverse imperative complex.
And without saying precisely what he means, I want to talk about how it is that we moderns find ourselves in a complex manifold of perverse imperative complexes.
And in fact, not merely human beings but life on earth is presently in direct competition with those complexes and is losing.
Human intelligence, the possibility of it is falling off a cliff.
And this is particularly true at the scale of our collectives, our societies, institutions, corporations and so on.
For the power to obliterate the possibility of intelligence lies not presently with individual humans and small groups, though they have a role.
It lies with an order of thing, an order of process that we can learn to recognize and distinguish in a range of ways that are helpful.
Or not.
We live in a time where certain very important roots that affect all other roots and all derivations have become corrupted,
catastrophically corrupted.
These are roots like the world, dreaming, person, we, intelligence.
There's just a small selection.
I'm going to talk about two of them briefly.
The first is we.
There are two distinct ways we can suppose the existence of a we that I'm currently interested in.
One moment.
I'll take some examples so I think it'll be helpful.
So let us suppose for a moment that there's been an accident.
We'll call it an automobile accident.
And the people involved are motivated to help each other rather than cast blame.
They recognize that everybody's at risk.
Some people are injured.
So they form a coherent momentary union probably without having to actually talk a lot about it immediately.
I've been involved in such unions and they act as a unity within for each other.
So you can see active sensing participation, meaningful participation, awareness, cognition, modeling, and understanding all become integrated.
We end up with an integral union.
At least briefly while they work together to in an attempt to protect each other and resolve an unexpected catastrophic situation.
There are other examples that have a much smaller interval such as when two strangers pass each other on the street and light up with authentic smiles as they make eye contact.
That's a very informal we.
In language when I extend the word we to include all people or everyone in the United States or everyone in California.
That's actually the opposite of a meaningful use of the word we.
So this is actually this is the problem that I want to point out in our thinking and our language.
A we that doesn't exist because it was never formed intentionally.
To use this word.
I am not referring to the presence of union or communion or mutual concern or shared fate shared risk shared opportunity.
I'm referring to the absence of those things.
And where did they go?
How did they disappear?
They disappeared into representations.
California.
The United States.
The humans of Earth.
And this kind of disappearance.
Is an opportunistic wonderland.
For what I'll refer to as false collectives.
Nations.
Corporations.
Institutions.
And these false collectives are continuously intruding.
In the space of relation and active sensing awareness consciousness.
That might otherwise produce fruitful results.
And they're converting that space to commodities the same way a logging company converts a forest to lumber and sells it.
So you can see that the fake collectives.
While they do produce short term benefits and convenience quote unquote.
And opportunity.
For individuals.
They also produce monumental constellations.
Of damage.
Damage to the foundations.
Of life on Earth.
Of human awareness.
Of the possibility.
Of participation with integrity.
They replace over time.
More and more deeply.
At an ever increasing pace.
The foundations of life on Earth are humanity and the origins and potentials for human intelligence.
And what they replace them with.
Is fictions.
Often codified in language.
I.e. the Constitution.
We're still using an operating system from the 1800s in 2020.
For a nation.
No one would think.
If they were paying attention.
That that doesn't represent.
A vicious.
Cascade of frame collapses.
It has to continue to function.
So.
As individual humans and as a species.
We're competing.
Against something like.
The absence.
Of our integral conscious.
Of our connection.
With ourselves.
Our lives.
Each other.
Nature.
What we refer to as resources.
By the way that word's important.
In the sense that.
It means.
If you imagine.
A swimming beetle.
Under the water.
That rises up.
To get oxygen.
And then returns back to its underwater existence for a while.
Until it needs oxygen again.
It is re sourcing.
It's.
Origin.
The moment.
The span of its existence.
Its capacity for participation and active sensing.
Authentically.
Just as I do when I inhale.
And we can see very easily the intimate link between the capacity to inhale.
And to exhale.
And existence.
If that process is very briefly interrupted I die.
And.
There aren't too many fictions that can intrude there.
That are survivable but.
The fake collectives.
In which.
In whose behaviors and character.
And repercussions we are enmeshed.
They don't breathe.
They aren't beings.
They are things.
They are processes that convert humans.
To lethal.
And catastrophic defection.
From the essence of being itself.
From life.
From re sourcing.
And they replace.
Those potentials.
With ever deadlier and more confusing.
And more disembodied.
Processes.
Relationships.
Jobs.
Tasks.
Arons.
Imperatives.
And this is what Daniel is talking about when he refers to.
The perverse imperative complex.
So.
The word we.
Where it is not employed.
In a sense that's trustworthy.
Intelligent.
Integrative.
Integral.
Sincere.
Based on actual.
Sensing.
And agreements.
Not on representations.
Comprises the shadow of its absence.
So what.
Is being pointed at.
Primarily.
When this word we is used particularly to complain about something that's gotten wrong.
Or that's obviously bad.
It's backwards.
We.
An authentic we group was never formed.
And instead.
An ever more accelerating and layered replacement.
Of false collectivity.
Was imposed and pursued.
And enacted.
If humans.
Become confused about concepts so simple.
As we.
So that when they make this noise with their face they're actually referring to its opposite.
But are not aware of that.
Then those humans.
Have lost their minds.
Not in the figurative sense.
In a concrete sense.
They've so lost touch.
With relation.
Which really is the origin of identity.
Identity is not.
Explicit or implicit.
In things like trees and.
Gardens and birds.
Identity is something humans.
Derive.
Through a process.
Of frame collapse.
According to the purpose.
That initiated.
That process.
And very very few of us are aware of this.
And I could talk at great length about this but I want to say a simple thing.
As we collapse from the position above.
Identification and identity.
Toward identification and identity.
One of the primary motivations is utility.
What can I do with the thing?
What does the thing do?
What is the value of the derivative?
What is the meaning?
This what, where, why, how, who, when, and which.
The seven ions of quest.
Those are ladders we use to climb down from the superposition above.
Identification.
Above declaration.
Into roles.
And as that collapse proceeds.
If it's misguided.
Which it so very often is in our time.
We're going to experience damage.
And we will lose.
What I'll refer to as degrees of freedom which are.
Uniquely distinguishable dimensions or domains of liberty.
A really good example is.
The bird has both wings and feet.
It can walk.
And when it lands it gives up degrees of freedom.
For the relatively clumsy capacity to walk.
So it loses momentarily.
It's not in the superposition, right?
It comes down to the subposition.
Walks around there maybe grabs some food.
And then reenters the superposition.
When we.
Play the cognitive game.
Of what is that?
What's it for?
What's its value?
Is it a threat?
Is it an opportunity?
We give up degrees of freedom.
As we collapse down into the questions.
But.
We at least are embodied.
The fictional collectives.
On which.
Our lives.
Depend and within which our minds.
And consciousness are.
Very dangerously restructured for the most part today.
Their game.
Is interesting to deconstruct.
Their game is to produce the appearance.
Of value meaning benefit opportunity.
And to offload the damage.
That their.
Perverse imperatives.
Right like.
Burn down the Amazon rainforest.
And plant soybeans.
Or whatever other monoculture you like.
They.
Are false collectives being abstract disembodied processes.
The convert humans to membership.
And participation.
Not only do they not care.
Caring authentic caring.
Is impossible.
For constructs.
Constructs don't care.
They don't breathe.
They're.
A lot like tumors.
They'll kill the organs of the entire body just to propagate.
More quickly.
And more profusely metastasis.
So in Daniel's language the false collectives.
That we presently.
Live under the rule of primarily.
Are comparable.
To broad scale.
Metastatic.
Oncogenesis.
Cancer formation.
And just like cancer cells.
They don't care.
Their goal is reproduction dominance of terrain.
And very quickly that destroys the body.
And of course that cures cancer.
Because.
There's nowhere left to externalize the damage.
That's what kills the body in cancer.
The damage can't be offloaded anymore.
To the basis of life on earth.
Into the orienting anchors of being or intelligence.
And that's where the damage has been being offloaded for a long long time.
So we humans have this conceivable gift.
Representational cognition.
That actually acts like a monster production factory.
And has as its fulfillment.
The successful obliteration of life on earth.
Or at the very least.
The successful obliteration of the biosphere.
Possibly humans.
Relatively likely.
We're among the more delicate organisms on earth.
We're extremely delicate in fact.
The thing that makes us look robust is technology.
We use to do the damage that we offload into nature.
And our own minds and relationships.
And failures to form meaningful intelligent collectivity and so on.
That's a very grim prognosis.
However.
It helps us.
I think.
Presuming that.
Us is.
Not merely a fiction.
It helps us in that.
It helps to explain.
Why.
Our species.
Is insane.
We can make tools.
We can dominate terrain.
We can continue to dominate it up until very recently.
By hiding the damage in nature.
Which of course isn't.
It's hidden only from our awareness.
It doesn't get rid of the damage.
In fact.
Damage hidden in nature.
Comes directly back to us in a feedback loop.
Because we are nature.
So there's no place to hide the damage.
That's one of the fictions.
Of representational cognition.
We can bury.
The radioactive waste.
So I spoke a little bit about how.
Our language.
Many of the fundamental.
Anchors of meaning.
Words like intelligence.
World.
Life.
Human.
We.
Dream.
Food.
Mother.
Father.
Family.
People.
We.
Dream.
Food.
Mother.
Family.
People.
Mice.
These words have become.
In common usage.
They point away.
From what they once pointed toward.
As our species has developed into.
More sophisticated capacities with technology and representation.
We failed to notice.
That the fundamental.
Roots.
From which meaning arises in relation.
We're being corrupted.
And perhaps one of the.
Very important.
All of these little anchor words are important.
I call them holophores, but.
The one that I want to examine briefly at the moment is intelligence.
Intelligence.
It's very difficult to provide.
A.
Over arcing definition for intelligence because.
The nature of what is meant.
To me.
By this word.
Is usually local to a specific.
Group of people or a person.
Or a situation or a circumstance.
I'm not sure I'm.
Equipped to broadly define it.
But I can say things about what it isn't.
It isn't.
Tearing your boat apart at sea.
And.
The fact.
That you can tear the boat apart.
And make a book.
Or a gun.
Or a computer.
Will not help you.
Once you've torn enough of the boat apart.
Sea will swallow you whole.
That will be that.
So you could make it look for a little while.
Like ripping the boat apart.
Was really intelligent like you're a great gadget here.
You can collapse your vessel.
Into all these other things.
And.
In a representational culture that flies.
For a little while you can you know sell the computer.
Or the gun or the crisper.
Or the education.
But if you're ripping the boat apart to produce that.
And you keep accelerating.
The pace of that destruction.
And the number of different ways in which you're accomplishing it.
That's the opposite of intelligence.
So intelligence has to be for it to be.
Meaningful.
It has to be grounded in awareness.
It has to be grounded.
In active sensing in participation in meaningful roles relationships.
And imperatives.
And when it departs that ground.
It becomes its opposite.
Just like that word we.
What humans in general.
And their collectives and institutions have acquired is not intelligence.
It's cunning.
It's cunning.
It's how to make damage look like benefit.
And profit.
From that transaction.
From that transformation.
And.
In a world with fewer people and less technology.
You can get away with that for a while.
Something will take the damage and that damage will return to you somehow.
Because.
In case it isn't obvious Earth's.
Effectively.
A relatively closed system.
If you screw up.
The basis of the ecologies or you wipe out the atmosphere.
You get a dead planet all games and.
And with those.
Endings all lies also and.
But you sacrifice the entire history and future.
Of meaningful organismal development.
Relation and behavior.
Forever.
That's not intelligent.
That's the opposite of intelligence.
So until and unless our species begins to form.
Collectives.
Capable of overcoming.
The fictional collectives.
And actually enacting something resembling least slightly.
Intelligence.
I'm going to suggest.
That we are not an intelligent species.
The fact that we can say the word.
And make up stories about what that means.
And pat ourselves on the back for having invented mathematics.
Will not matter at all.
If all games and.
And in fact.
I got that wrong.
It will matter.
We became.
Representationally sophisticated.
In a broad array of ways.
That were lethal.
Both in the sense of causing us to forget.
The fundamental basis of being.
Life organisms ecologies the biosphere relationship.
Active sensing awareness consciousness.
We forgot all those things slowly over time.
Sometimes dramatically quickly.
In some phases like the one we're currently in where everything is accelerating.
In a way.
The analogy imagine if you could fall off a cliff and just keep falling faster.
Which doesn't work in gravity.
Unless you're rocketing toward the ground.
With a with an engine with infinite thrust.
That's kind of what happened to the possibility of human intelligence.
As.
Our capacity to make things.
Including representations including language.
Proceeded.
That's not intelligent.
So most of the time.
These days when I hear the word intelligence.
I'm hearing.
The tolling of a bell.
That announces.
Seventeen new ways for that to be absent.
Absence as presence.
In language.
This is the topic.
We can't get to presence.
In the direction.
Of extinction.
Of lying.
Of using sophisticated language to pretend that we're paying attention.
To something we never develop the faculties to even notice.
And that's.
What's going on.
On the broad scale.
In the false collectives.
In the institutions.
At present.
And it's.
Extremely difficult to interrupt that process meaningfully.
Because it has incredible momentum.
And.
It's hyper instantiated.
It's not just everywhere.
It's everywhere in six new ways each.
Hour.
If you misguide seven billion human beings.
They can do.
Astronomical.
Amounts of damage.
In ever shrinking temporal intervals.
That's mostly what's going on.
We call it civilization.
See.
There's another word.
The absence of what we're referring to.
Presents as its presence.
There's nothing civilized.
How wiping everything out and turning it all into commodities and.
Obliterating the possibility of human intelligence or integrity or.
Dignity.
Awareness consciousness.
Creativity play.
There's nothing civilized about that.
There never was.
So you can see this problem is old.
With our people goes way back.
In fact I'd argue.
That the story in Genesis.
Perhaps I'd use the word suggest.
I'd suggest that the story in Genesis about the tree incident is the story of.
How this mess got started.
We've just failed to understand it.
In a way that's clear.
And.
Helps us to see.
A path through.
The grave darkness.
That is the ongoing result.
Of our relationships with.
Representation language and knowledge.
Our capacity to cut things.
Into identities according to.
Purposes that we should mistrust from the outset.
And.
It's not that no one is aware.
Of my concerns.
Or the things I hear speak of.
Many people are aware in different ways.
But we have not formed collectives that can enact that awareness.
Meaningfully.
Successfully.
Yet.
And.
And.
And.
And.
Yet.
And.
Even if.
Our species.
Will drag itself and maybe much of.
Life on earth to extinction.
Right quick.
We still have the opportunity to do this.
Even in very small.
Temporal scales and we do it naturally are.
The animal that we are was evolutionary.
Evolutionarily prepared for this.
We're we're incredible at it.
We're we're we're as good at this as dolphins are at swimming.
We're just being constantly misdirected.
And intruded upon.
By fictions.
That have.
Long historical precedent.
In the sense that they become traditions.
Traditional fictions.
And.
In the majority of the population.
Rain.
Unrecognized.
Unresisted.
Unexamined.
And.
For the common people.
They may be nearly unexamined.
Partly because.
The contexts in which.
They're engaged and have membership.
Are formed of these fictions.
You can't you can say like well.
I don't want to work for.
Exxon mobile.
But you're going to have to work for someone.
Unless you're independently wealthy.
And even then.
If you're independently wealthy.
You're still going to depend on Exxon mobile.
Unless you're very peculiar and live.
You know.
In the wilderness on your own.
Even then.
You'll have some links.
So the common people.
Have very little opportunity space to develop.
We groups.
That are real.
And something that actually resembles intelligence.
Yet again.
Our species is made for this.
We're just being misled.
By something that might be likened to false gods.
We're just being misled.
So.
We're just being misled.
And.
We're just being misled.
And.
We're just being misled.
So.
We're just being misled.
And.
These processes.
That have overtaken our collectivity.
Is demonic.
is demonic in the same sense that cancer is malignant it doesn't really
matter whether there are whether this is a metaphysical assertion or a
utilitarian one they might as well be demons they eat everything they have
an insatiable hunger to just obliterate minds and lives worlds intelligence
they obliterate we have this other word that means the opposite of what it
means progress well I guess you can call rocketing toward the bottom of a long
cliff that's a kind of progress but if the endpoint is smashing into the ground
at thousands of miles an hour was that really progress and so as humanity is
rocketing down the cascade of catastrophes that are disorientation
and incredible momentum right apparently the institutions and the
the false collectives are capable of framing the acceleration of progress
toward a stone wall as progress they just pretend well the wall is not really
there we'll never really hit it we won't hit it in our lifetimes as long as it
doesn't happen to us we can offload the damage on the future generations so on
so forth so you can see what I mean when I say intelligence as we generally think
of it in the sense of it being related to the human capacity for insight and for
beneficial cooperation in and as nature in and as humanity that's nothing like
what's going on I mean there's tiny little pockets of halfway you know
intelligent behavior however all of that stuff depends on all the up all the
unintelligent catastrophizing to produce the possibility of it right so it's
floating on apocalypse and it's accelerating apocalypse not in one
or 12 or 15 ways in a thousand ways while pretending this is progress that's not
progress it never was once again we have a word that refers to its own absence as
itself and we should notice together where our linguistic habits incline us
to take the the shadow like negation of something the malignant negation of
something as its presence as its authentic appearance it can't be so
on the tiny little island floating in space the paradise our species arose in
and inherited many forms of primacy in union is first it's a meta one first
there's nothing you can hurt here that doesn't there's no way to externalize
harm right from a collective or a purpose or an activity that doesn't
rebound off unity and come back
with dire catastrophic result
the seeming fact that those results are not always immediate or perceivable is
how we're able to play hide the damage in the first place
and what the biosphere does is actually intelligent it's an actual we group with
the exception primarily of humans with some few exceptions in that group and
while there's competition and predation so on it's not world-wrecking it doesn't
obliterate hope for trillions of other beings just by making a move and although
it produces forms those forms are not properly representations in the sense I
use the word in other words I have a friend who argues with me well you have
a nervous system so starting there everything's an abstraction to begin
with and I'm like yeah I get your point however I'm talking about a layer of
abstraction that is proper to human thought conception cognition motivation
utilitarian motives profit motives power motives things like this and while my
friend is not incorrect it's useful to distinguish orders of abstraction in the
way that I have so when I say representation I'm talking about
something that's either a cognitive or a physical artifact of human
representational cognition like this stuff and particularly when these things
masquerade as freedom or wings or new degrees of liberty we're in serious
fucking trouble and we had best turn about and choose another direction and if
we cannot and again I'm using this we word I'm pretending there's a meaningful
collectivity and it's not entirely untrue for example it's my experience that
something like the union of all human bodies and minds on earth right now and
I'm gonna limit it temporally just to make it easier but we don't have to the
union of all human minds and bodies alive on earth right now comprises an
environment not not so much a network but a unity from in which networks form
and acquire character perhaps function so there is a we in the sense that I can
feel compassion for someone I've never met or an animal or a plant or an insect
I feel self likeness with all beings all beings but certainly more profoundly with
the beings I directly encounter in my body I'm embodied I'm not a fiction I'm
an actually authentic collective of organs and cells and histories and
futures and lineages and purposive imperatives and dreaming so the word we
can point at something meaningful even though our common usages of it point
at primarily its absence
as awareness arises
We can learn to understand the history of the crises I've been describing, and by understanding
that history together, we can begin to forge new opportunities, even if their initial scope
or interval is very limited.
I can have an intelligent conversation with someone I care about, or a stranger, in which
for ten minutes or an hour, we strive together to retrieve the wings our cultures and linguistic
habits collapsed into cages.
And that's meaningful, it may not change the course of history, it may not dramatically
change the course of history, it changes the course of time and being and minds, however
modest the scope of that change may be.
And again, I'm not merely suggesting I'm asserting that we're made for that, we're
born for it, but when we feel the return of degrees of liberty and thought and relation
and sensing and awareness and consciousness that have long been denied us, degrees we
can remember, forms of freedom we can remember from childhood before representational cognition
got its clamps on consciousness, we all of us began free of that library of frameworks
and methods of collapsing frames.
And we were rewarded for learning to do that, and our dreaming mind suffered and was eventually
evicted from most of our waking awareness.
There's an old, yeah, there's an old story here, I mean this is another gloss on the
problem in Genesis at the tree, the tree incident.
The frameworks have structure and we can learn the structure, we can learn things about it
that return degrees of freedom to consciousness and cognition, to relation, to sensing, to
our behavior, to our metabolism, to our minds.
And I've spoken about the structure before, but essentially it goes something like the
uniform, the great big circle, which is the everything, the holophores, the meaningful
arbiters of identity meaning value function, and then underneath that layers of tokens
that we could call semaphores meaning likenesses.
And for our species what happened over our representational history is that the uniform
was damaged, that damage was inherited by the holophores and magnified and transmitted
among them because they each affect each other.
And so by the time we get down to tokens and semaphores, we've got in modern times mostly
just damage.
Now the process can be reversed by
repairing any of the holophores.
What is dreaming?
What is the sun?
What is food really?
If we can slightly repair any of the anchors, the world, organisms, humans, minds, hands,
eyes, dreaming, food, mother, father, mirror, water, if we can advance our understanding
of the holophores so that some of the damage is corrected, that correction becomes contagious
first at the layer of other holophores because they all inform each other.
And it results in radical downstream corrections to our capacities for representational cognition,
particularly the forms that might more reasonably be understood to be intelligent.
And what we really mean by intelligent is sort of not deceptive, right?
What's wrong?
Inherently truthful without being true because that's a total collapse.
Though in some games within representational minds, truth values are not entirely unrealistic
or as long as their scope is small enough, truth values are okay.
If we're doing arithmetic, it's okay to say that one plus one, it's true that it equals
two in that limited scope of math.
But it's not true that one plus one equals two because there's no such thing as one.
One is an abstraction of unity.
Abstractions of unity, once we're doing that, we're already going in a very dangerous direction
that we should at least recognize.
We may wish to keep going in that direction, but we should recognize there are no abstractions
of unity.
There's nothing like that.
That's a cognitive game.
That's a numero conceptual game.
It's a linguistic game.
One what?
We're not saying one what plus one what equals two.
We're saying one individual, right?
Individual what?
Are there actually individuals?
Of course, we all intuitively understand what's meant by this abstraction, but we should recognize
it's an abstraction.
It's a meta abstraction because it's saying, just take two unities, put them together, you
get two unities.
Is that really true?
You put a man and a woman together, you can get three or four or 17, you can get all kinds
of unities out of that.
You can say, well, sperms and eggs, and I'm still going to say the same thing.
It leads to all kinds of different kinds of unities.
Even something as simple as one plus one equals true, when we examine the assumptions we have
to make, the axioms we have to assert and agree with, we find, hmm, things are a little
bit weirder than the superficial appearance I'm used to relating with.
And maybe, maybe that's a step in the direction of intelligence together, when this is done
meaningfully with motives that are noble and truthful, that have integrity, they're trustworthy,
and they don't lead to the externalization of damage, offloading damage, which is then
lied about, which is then again transformed into progress or benefit, profit, or power.
If everything dies, no one has power.
All ideas of power disappear.
If the humans die, all ideas of human intelligence and power and goodness and beauty, they all
go away.
That whole thing just comes to crashing halt.
That can't be progress for humans, and I'm not even going to entertain for the moment
the arguments and ideas about, well, maybe it's time for humans to be done.
Maybe it is.
That's a different topic.
I'm talking about things as they lie while humans are still a going concern for us and
in nature.
The capacity to repair holophores might be part of the fundamental definition of intelligence.
And science, strangely, our human relationship with science, science is an extremely general
word, is confusing in that it both gives us useful pragmatic models and understandings
of phenomenon, and drives the capacity for us to depart from intelligence relationally,
philosophically, ethically, intellectually.
So that's a multi-bladed sword, and our hope lies in the direction of forming collectives
capable of resisting the temptations that technology puts on the table for defecting
from intelligence and communion, from reverence, from wonder, from awe, from humanity, from
life on earth, into new forms of abstraction and warfare and zero-sum games and rival-risk
collectives.
We are more delicate than the biosphere, but the biosphere is extremely delicate in the
sense of its relationship to the activity of the fictional collectives.
We've established, sustained, developed, and effectively granted sovereignty over not
only each other and our relationships and histories and lineages and families, but of
all the beings of this world.
Those institutions and collectives are evil in the sense that you don't give the helm
of the boat in which all life is held to someone who intends to rip it apart for the
sake of the brief appearance of power, authority, dominance, progress.
We need to retrieve the boat together.
We need to retrieve the wings that are natural to our human essence from the forces that have
counterfeited them, obliterated them, deprived us of them, and delivered the appearance of
momentary conveniences.
But maybe first, we have to form something that actually resembles a we, and be motivated
to develop something that actually resembles intelligence.
And again, I think we're made.
I think we're made for this the way fish are made for water.
But we can be captured.
We're vulnerable to abstractions and representational cognition and side effects of what we think
of as knowledge in the representational aspect, for there are different kinds of knowledge,
not all of which depart into abstraction.
The fog is beautiful, the garden is beautiful.
I hope perhaps you found some joy or insight in walking with me today as I exercise my
body a little bit and try and exercise my mind.
Thank you for joining me and I look forward to more time together soon.
