Hey everybody, thanks for joining me.
Evening here in the garden today, I have my new Gucci earring, it's the latest fashion,
very expensive, hard to get, you have to, there's a waiting list, a mile long, you gotta know
somebody to get one of these, and not just somebody, you gotta know the person, the one.
So if you got one of these, well you can finish that sentence for me in your own mind.
And it is still, profoundly beautiful and live, today.
It's astonishing how pervasive and diverse and, in my view,
from my felt sense of being, since I was a small child, not things I made up when I
grew up and learned language, but since I was a child, I could trust living beings, plants,
animals, insects, fishes, snakes, lizards, spiders, centipedes, raccoons, parakeets, catfish,
toads, turtles, tortoises. I never met gazelles and cougars and elephants and rhinoceroses,
and eventually I got to meet an octopus or two. But when I was with them, I felt something,
there was an oxygen there that was missing, from my relationships with the humans, and from the
humans' relationships with each other, and from the humans' relationships with living places and
living beings and things. And it was very confusing as a little child, even though I think I already
understood something of this. I couldn't articulate it, I couldn't say any much about it.
I had the great good fortune to be born gentle. I think my father thought this was a kind of
terrible curse, coming from his background in the times he lived in. Even then, he would not have
certainly been right, but he would have been more on the right side of the issue, more on the correct
side of all these words. I don't trust any of them. And so when I saw living beings, anything at all,
an ant, a snail, an earwig, a roly-poly, a harvestman spider, a butterfly, a caterpillar,
I might as well have been religious because it was as if I was looking through a living doorway
into the place where all beings come from, and a place where they're all together always, and
there's no other way to be. And I'm a little surprised at the moment to have to struggle to
maintain my composure. And maybe it would be smart if I didn't, but I'm not sure how my listeners
will be assisted by watching me collapse into a mushy, teary, weepy, childlike, gentle,
adoring human being.
I don't always think about, well, what will be served if I do that since such. But in this case,
I want to stay coherent. And I won't be coherent if I start singing from the place that I'm speaking of.
On a good day, I'd be poetic.
On a better day, I'd be singing and poetic and crying. In any case,
back to the matter at hand, these living beings. It was very confusing to be in the world in this way,
and one thing that became rather immediately apparent to me was that nearly none
of the other males were like this at all. Not zero. Given access to some cohort like my
elementary school, right, I could find one or two, not necessarily in my age group,
that were inclined to be gentle.
And they were sensitive not because
we are supposed to be, or
they were sensitive to the livingness of other
organisms with the kind of reverence and respect and fear, too.
But it wasn't to put on. In fact, it's a really tough thing to simulate or mimic.
If you're with someone who's authentically sensitive to living beings,
be tough to mimic. There might be some extremely skillful sociopathic to pull it off.
I've not seen anything like that. Perhaps it doesn't really matter.
It can be badly mimicked, all kinds of ways.
And I never had the feeling which was the projection from the adult
human world, the layers of human culture, and the
flavors of that had gotten into the adults that I actually had contact with, or directly,
or through media, or television, or whatever.
There's this peculiar question in English that we might want to pay a little more attention to
under some circumstances.
What's gotten into you?
And as an Italian, I'm going to add a little codosil to that.
And what the fuck did it have to push out of the way to get there?
So I can mimic my father's sort of serious East Coast Italian thing,
and maybe there's even a little piece of it inside me.
I think there's little pieces of everybody inside me.
So which leads off onto the bridge topic of do we have different kinds of minds,
and can we cultivate different kinds of minds?
And of course, yes, I think to both, the idea that we have a single mind doesn't make sense.
The idea that there are hard divisions is also confusing,
something more peculiar and perhaps more nuanced as a foot.
But when I saw the living beings, the little insect, the bee,
and of course, you encounter these things through two lenses, right?
One is sort of the original self as the child, the animal of you,
learning what it means, for example, without any words being involved at all.
That if I touch the small insect, I may wish to pet it because that's
that's what I learned in my culture was to express love by petting things.
So I wanted to pet fish, right?
I wanted to pet frogs, not good for frogs to be petted.
I wanted to pet anything.
I wanted to touch it.
I wanted to hold it.
And of course, you know, this resulted in in case someone accidentally gets the idea
that my walk in nature has been just filled with wonder and beauty.
Nothing likes that.
That's not, yes, actually, if I stop and think about it, there's a broad landscape of that.
But there's also a broad landscape of me being either catastrophically stupid,
too frightened to participate in the way, you know, in the door that has opened for me.
And so I turn it into some other kind of door and then relate with that thing
to disastrous consequences often, particularly for other living beings.
To that list, I can add ignorance, even
well, I probably needn't bear my soul here.
Let's just say that the entire range
of how humans are with living things,
I have not explored, but the beautiful and the accidentally catastrophic
and the killing of other living things I have explored.
But when I was very small,
I had a lot to learn because in my mind, there was this incredible wonderment,
which to me felt precisely synonymous with safety and truth, these two things.
Like this is more, the caterpillar is more true than anything my mom ever said.
It's a really simple thing.
It's true in an entirely different, it has dimensions of truth.
Language shall never approach.
The ant, any small creature, and it's alive.
So it's not just a library of sort of,
we lack non-religious language that could lead us in the right direction about
the nature, the actual nature of organisms or their accessible nature.
But trying to touch them was a bad idea and trying to keep them was a bad idea.
I thought, I had to bring, to keep the organism with me, I had to bring the organism with me.
So I fell in love with some minnows one day when we were fishing and
because I really wanted to take them with me, I put them in my pocket.
And mostly forgot about them until, you know, I don't know, I was four or five or something
until an hour later.
So along with my wonderment, there's some naivete and other things.
And eventually I came to understand
that while this wasn't entirely special to me,
it was uncommon among the adults.
The adults had long ago become more or less pragmatic
and confused and they taught their children and influenced their children and each other and
everything to keep relating with living beings as lesser things.
And this is one of the things I wanted to share was that
when I was little,
before concepts and traditions about human superiority intruded on my awareness,
it was extremely common for me to have experiences of other living beings and just
watching the hawk fly in sunset light.
They do a lot of sort of tail adjusting, wiggling
when they land and it's not merely balancing, something profound going on there,
broke my train of thought.
So when I was young, I wasn't trying, I was, I had a purpose in being participating with
living things. I was profoundly curious but also like madly in love and just astonished
as if I came from a planet that was very poor, right? As if I had come to this world
from a planet where only the simplest forms, still profound and beautiful nonetheless,
but only the simplest forms of life could struggle to emerge and sustain themselves.
As if I'd come from a planet like that and been born here with somehow with some memory in my bones
of my other home so that I could see the incredible diversity of life and the communion of life
from a perspective of having been extremely impoverished of this.
And valuing it maybe above well any common thing.
And it was, it got me into trouble occasionally but there was another thread that I didn't quite
get to soften properly which was there were not a lot of gentle boys
and mostly unless you had some really shiny other assets, you couldn't get away with being a gentle
boy in my, you know, in my time of growing up.
If you had some other assets that, that one you sort of, you know what to call it,
that one you the admiration of the cliques or, you know, little subcultures that you managed to bond
with members of or be included in, then that might protect you from scorn even though you'd
probably get some trouble about it anyway. And there was tons of pressure to toughen up and be a man
and, you know, all of this kind of thing and there still is. In fact, just as a side note,
if you really want to terrify like an adult male American human being, start crying as a guy,
right, at beauty for example. I've never seen looks of fear on men's faces.
I mean, it must, maybe it's some kind of powerful weapon that I haven't discovered,
I don't think that's actually true, but yeah, men can become very confused if another man
begins to cry at beauty unless this is common. Either they've preserved it themselves or their
familiar cohorts are either okay with it or, you know, celebrated or however it gets treated in the
social situation. But yeah, I wasn't, I completely got away with being gentle. I was super lucky.
I not only had this raw sensitivity to the beauty of living things and sort of self-recognizing.
This is the thing I was going to say earlier.
I was so in awe of the small creatures particularly because they were the creatures I had most
access to. By the time I was a child, most of the common animals other than birds,
with the exception of a few reptiles and amphibians were gone, and DDT in the 70s wiped out.
At least that's, I'm presuming maybe it's a combination of things, more likely a combination.
But the use of DDT in the 70s wiped out all the little creatures that I used to know,
pretty much all of them. There used to be 30 or 40 species of amphibians in my grandmother's
small backyard. Ten years later there were four. Ten years later there was one or two occasional
interlopers and lots of insects and birds. This is one of my, one of my friends. So what I was
going to say was, and I'm bird walking a bit, forgive me for not keeping a tight focus at the
moment, I was so overwhelmed with joy and I saw insects and
nutes and lizards and snakes, frogs, and I didn't get to see them often. Not the, like the more
exotic of them. Snakes were pretty exotic. I could find some frogs once in a while or a toad
maybe a skank, a bluebelly lizard, but snakes were rare and kind of mythic encounters for me.
And each creature had some unique, it wasn't just like, oh it's a living thing, it's that
each creature had some unique like inner form or essence that communicated it, that was accessible
to my awareness in a way perhaps unique to me. So I was at once, I think this is an incredible
blessing to have to be born with something like this being natural to me and also to have had parents
who, at least my mother encouraged it deeply and I think was charmed by it. My father was
much touchier about the whole thing because obviously his job is to ensure that I can become
a man and he was extremely concerned that my sensitivities would
hobble me. It's a complex story there. My point however is that the
the unfettered joy and reverence and wonder with which I beheld
the praying mantis, little Chinese green mantis in my backyard,
placed me in the opposite position of the one we're trained to think of ourselves as belonging to
in our modern culture so that instead of me being the advanced powerful godlike
creature, I was the child and they were the advanced astonishing, impossibly intelligent
and gentle creature and by gentle I just mean
the praying mantises don't attack me.
The bees don't attack me, the wasps don't attack me and when they do there's some things going on
that has to be paid attention to if they should. So I saw them as
more than ordinary beings and sometimes in the application of perspective
for the sake of intelligence and opportunity.
It is important to be able to be in, to be participating from
a place that is authentic, comes before words,
is rich with enthusiasm and maybe even some fear,
a place of not knowing, openness
and sometimes we want positions like this that give us, that return new forms of liberty to our minds
in our senses and most of the perspectives we are trained to enact have the opposite effect.
They amputate senses and perspectives and one of the things I was going to say is
we don't really have a word for how I felt the class of phenomenon that living things
belonged to for me because it wasn't merely organism and it wasn't god per se but it was a
meta being. It was like a more than human being or more than simply human as if, here we go.
Imagine that I'm looking at a caterpillar and most of what it is is hidden in dimensions
that I can't see from here. Most of what the caterpillar is actually
are not local. They're in dimensions other than the physical, they're in relational dimensions,
temporal lineage dimensions, all kinds of places where I can't see the body of the thing
and so the caterpillar could be like the tiny little living fuse of a giant mountain of being
and all of that being can appear to me as the caterpillar all the way back to the beginning
of the beginning of time. For there's nothing that does not share that quality but the living
beings are very peculiar in how they embody it and this peculiarity is part of what I was on fire
about and could not speak of then and must still struggle now to speak of. So I could sense
that the very tiny creatures it was as if they were gigantic in another dimension
and we being big it was as if we were small in the dimension that they are big
and this is the kind of thing a child could maybe even say almost I wouldn't have been able to
abstract the derivatives properly as a kid but I could have said
they're big to me and I'm little to them maybe on a good day
and that perspective whether or not it is a fact is not the question
what you what what I needed was perspectives that would lead me to terrain where it was possible
to understand things that are otherwise you can't see them you'll never come across them they're
hidden things and they are hidden by the artifices we traditionally transmit and propagate and mutate
they're hidden by
to point fairly directly at where the actual serious problems are they're in our
understanding of what it means to be a fundamental thing like the sun the earth a living uh uh let's
say water the moon the rabbit the earthworm our class
the structure of the classes we use to describe organisms to ourselves commonly and to each other
is not only missing whole classes the ones that are left are badly artifacted they are
mostly empty structure right and that's a story that I can't chase at the moment I've chased it
before I'll chase it again another time so if we have a perspective from which we can be in the
relationship oh I am the small one right my people are the new people around here all these other
people without exception there aren't any others newer um well not at the macro scale it's all
kinds of new stuff at the micro scale uh and there's I mean novelty is still in the game
my point is just we're really new
and we as much as we have narratives about our origins and such we actually don't know them
though some people treat the question as resolved I certainly don't know I mean the kind of knowledge
we have in our modern lives is probably so new that it could be reasonably said to have arisen
in the past 150 years or something in any case a useful perspective
can be much better than facts because you want your imagination in the game
or not the game but you want your imagination in accessible to your senses right so that your
imagination you can use your imagination with your senses to extend your senses and your imagination
and if I tell you you know that the bird is of a species corvus corvidae belonging to this phylum
and you know nothing about the bird nothing about yourself nothing about the relations between you
that reminds me
I know a couple of birds around here
I wonder if they're still awake
I saw the living creatures as greater than me
in many ways that I couldn't speak of I still do and yet
that's not the most important thing to understand but it's useful and it's useful even if it turned
out somehow and I think this is kind of impossible but let's entertain the idea
if it turned out that somehow it could be proven that this is not the case
that would not render the perspective
fraudulent it would not render the perspectives
usefulness would not nullify that usefulness right because we need to be able to imagine
things
for rationality to work at all it has to be encompassed by imagination
so
there are cases in which we will transfer precedence to rationality
usefully but we don't it would be catastrophic if we were to either lock that position in place
or pretend that it's the rationality that's leading us and not our body our emotions our nervous
system
so even if the tiny beings aren't gigantic in five dimensions we don't have language about
I say to you they are as myself right you don't have to go along with me or believe me or adopt
my position but the position is useful whether even if it's wrong because it will give us access to
ways of being in relation
faculties of relation this is something they should teach us about as children
that without imagining something like that we have no opportunity to explore and in fact
we'll tacitly believe to be nonsense right this is the whole
this is the part of the the wrapper of the package of identity we inherit
right insects don't have essential being that you can connect with and participate with
really
I mean even pragmatically that assertion it's pretty easily decapitated
I mean pollination by itself
all of the contributions of we would not be having the conversation if
x you know x number of enormous populations of organisms were not producing oxygen
and we don't see them producing oxygen though we agree you know science scientifically
we've learned that organisms transform chemistry in various ways and produce oxygen
or at least that's our current narrative perhaps later we'll learn something even more astonishing
it's funny here is the last traces of a phenomenon from the previous moon cycle
this coyote scat the coyotes were eating berries
and leaving very well-formed scat
overnight I think there were a good 18 sites and it was a very unusual
sudden transformation of behavior in those animals
and I pay attention to those kinds of things
I don't always have a narrative about them I just
and in fact I often try to resist forming one though in some cases I need to
because sometimes you need a model to get to get to the next
you know location in a mystery
but yeah there's there's living language here all around us
and we have as human beings I think
an astonishing gift a library of gifts that are I mean they were born and were and emerged
in the pool of other beings on earth over time together one ship you know
know reasonably a single extremely complex organism
and we have very unique abilities we can bridge
we can create intelligent bridges between domains that must otherwise be kept
apart
and this is but one of the least of our peculiar endowments as human beings
nearly none of which we muchly access because what we inherit shuts most of that stuff down
what I did learn
and I'm not afraid to talk about being a boy or being a girl
from my own direct experience and I never will be
time is relative to meaning and when we pretend it's not
we're collapsing part of our intelligence that we need to notice that that's going on
in other words we're collapsing the thing that would notice that our site
we're throwing away some of our obscene ability don't want to attack that thing
and there's lots of weird ways to do it and one of the weird ways to do it hides
in a noble sentiment or in a noble purpose and yet is somehow not noble and often is something
undesirable wearing the costume of a noble movement or purpose
and very important to be able to recognize the difference
the coyotes among other things I think there was a
a non-ordinary aspect to their behavior in the last moon
and I paid very close attention to it
but the cherry or berry like food they were eating I think I found the food they were eating
and particularly the hulls of the shells of the seeds
they made a
as the coyotes digested the food
it formed in their intestines
a circular brush
that would cleanse the intestine as it's passed along it
and I suspect there were there was chemistry with the plant involved as well but there was an
obvious physical fact of suddenly the coyotes digestive tract is doing much better than it
ordinarily does right because this food is available and clearly they know this right
because there's scat suddenly all over the garden
again overnight whereas prior to that there was I could find two or three sites but I'd
have to look carefully and the scat was very unhealthy looking discolored full of hair
like that's common but just it just didn't look
it looked like their digestive systems were struggling
and the berries were the opposite of this
so they think they get some kind of a cleanse going on
there's much more significance to to the situation than merely that
but I'm curious about all of the animals and I've never really had a chance to be around
animals like coyotes before and it's a little bit smoky but I love them
one thing I did discover
is that although not many males were either born gentle or
survived the attempts to script them out of it
but a goodly number of females were mostly gentle there might be exceptions
they might have some specific animal or insect that particularly creeps them out
to which they just feel like you know confused about why this why they're in a world with things
like that some of the old fears in humans run deep
the women have perhaps or at least when I was younger it was traditional for them to
you know be a sort of traditional things for women to be afraid of
and if there was something traditional for men to be afraid of it was being like a woman
in other words
being gentle
being heartful
having compassion
saying no to cruel behavior
now I mean I grew up and became a regular human mostly or at least I got the shell of one
I'm still the the sensitive
gentle person inside and it doesn't mean I have no other right it doesn't mean
oh the range of Darren's humanity is limited to gentle no that's not
but the roots if you go way down to the you know the essence of my being
yeah that's what I know to be down there
or that's the you know a player expression whatever mysterious beauty is going on in the
essence of our being but yeah the girls were gentle and and they would
tell adults or boys or whoever not to be cruel to live things
and I think part of that cruelty was a response to fear and sensing in some way
that um you know the thing you can crush or shoot
so
it's deeply significant in a place that you can't see
but if there was some intuition of this the supremacy of the of the
you know as a concept the idea of supremacy
again it's like most concepts it's
appropriate and reasonable in if it's scope right if the domain in which we apply it
is appropriately
limited and coherent right like has integrity
but you can't apply something like that universally
the realities everything that's going on whatever it is quite nuanced
like sloganeering isn't going to help you much at all with the real stuff
in fact language should mostly be done away with if you want a taste of what's actually going on
I don't mean permanently but you got to be able to shut the sort of conceptual thinking
rational mind off and let the assets underneath it like let that stop dominating the game so
that the assets underneath it can tentatively you know emerge into embodiment in action
awareness right suddenly I become aware I can sense
a way of sensing about this tree I have never sensed before
and there's no language about it
it's not surprising there's no language about it language pretty crappy stuff for describing
intimacies intimacies don't fit in language not even in poetry you know music can evoke
various kinds of art and music and play can evoke
storms of beauty in our you know essence
but yeah it was easier to find
companionable minds with females because more of them were gentle
and it gets really old even if you've like I had status with guys because I was
playful good-humored mischievous pretty smart right I could read really well I had certain gifts
so I mostly had respect from the guys I was very lucky because the gentle boys who didn't
gain that respect suffered a lot not as much here as they did where my dad came up
but I realized that it was in my childhood then there where I lived in that time
70s late 60s and 70s
girls you didn't have to explain about being gentle to living things to girls
most of them innately understood it and there were exceptions but
but it was traditional or I think that's not the right word
yeah I'm I'm cautious about how to describe it but it was natural to the girls
to be gentle to living things
whereas it's unclear
it seemed I guess the boys have to learn to kill don't they
see this is where there's problems and you can say well why is it the boys
have to learn to kill don't the girls kill too and I can say yes of course they do
but back then at least and in many cultures it's long been traditional which would mean
that you can think whatever you like about the genders and their proclivities it would be embedded
in there'd be genetic embedding of some kind I suspect right of you know
gentleness and fierceness and maybe it's common in many cultures to laugh at or make fun of or attack
males who aren't
appropriately dismissive
of the actual majesty
of living creatures and plants and the sky
ha appropriately dismissive
so when I began the video I actually had no idea what I didn't have a topic
I just sort of had playfully the intention to follow a rabbit
right and I like to play in this way
it's nice to prepare and if there's something formal going on I'll try to prepare I might even prepare
very carefully but mostly when I'm just out walking in the evening
as I am tonight the camera is totally totally gonna fail to capture this but
but the hue of the clouds
gets this pink magenta pinkish
it's very pretty so I didn't really know where I was gonna go
so
now
I think I had good intuitions as a child about the living things
or maybe even instincts even though I really dislike this word
but now as an adult I can understand things
about
the nature of life organisms the earth
that are inconceivably profound and I
I hesitate to say anything about them
because their depth
and their nearness they're like right next to our fingertips and most of us will live and die and
never even taste the nearby presence of this but what's going on here on earth and I'm not claiming
to know what's going on I'm claiming to have had glimpses that were meaningful and matter
which I think is natural to everyone it's a matter of then of degree
but the living beings are as organs
and again something the humans don't have useful language about and have no category for
and we belong with them and they belong with us and in unison we have capacities
that would silence the myths with all
and perhaps
simplicity
I'd like to share something with you about the garden
before I sign off for the evening since it's beginning to get dark though the camera
keeps things looking bright for a bit
so we have here
what I like to call a peculiar situation and there's some mystery involved
but I assisted in the re-engineering of
this little mess here
and it makes the most beautiful tinkling sound it really makes like this musical tinkling sound
and
this
sort of becomes a river
and the river becomes a canyon
just like the river cutting through mountains
and here you can see
this is great the river goes under back under the earth
and it comes out here
and then
have to go around here
then the river comes to a cliff
and there's a waterfall though you probably can't see it very well
and it's very gentle and then
it spreads out and becomes kind of like a marshy sandy
sedimentary place and you can see that the water
in all the different parts of the river the water is different so the tiny river thing
is really quite an amazing phenomenon here
course actual rivers are
a different thing but having this little toy is fascinating
now I can't tell for sure whether the river dug the canyon
or whether humans participated
I think the I think a human dug a lot of the canyon actually
but it's a wonderful little toy and I love the music the water makes
on the metal
it's a beautiful
enchanting sound
well the sun is setting
day comes to close well the night comes to an open there's another way of saying it
I wonder if the coyote will
wonder if I will see the coyote that lives near here tonight
or the bats or the the white owls
they are big
in hidden ways living beings
you know there are some creatures that are uniquely adapted
to bond and interact with human beings as should be obvious we've domesticated some of those
well this is a mutual choice I don't know what happened I don't really know the story
but there are some in our common experience that are often interested in
in having an exchange with human beings
most common birds
songbirds and such they have some interest but corvids are particularly interested
mice and rats praying mantises jumping spiders octopuses
um ambush predators
this class of organisms they're they're like they're they have minds
that are capable of and interested in interacting with human scale intelligences more or less
directly and so we can learn a lot from them and I did they were they've always been among my
teachers though I've spent very little time with octopuses
snakes are sometimes interested lizards not so much but again uh it's not just
none of this is written in stone right the way that we are in relation with
with ourselves with the sky with with everything with the living beings this changes what's
possible right so having a range that you can explore is very important being told how things
are that's a catastrophe that's circumcision of the mind and the imagination and the relational
organs inside us the relational organs we are made to become wow look at that light
setting of the sun is almost always very poignant
for me if I'm you know if I'm there for it I'm if I'm in it which really means if I'm not in a box
thank you for joining me today my walk getting a little exercise
in my mind and my body hopefully my singing gave you something you can make good use of
or helped you to remember something you'd always known
but had been hidden this is how it is with the really good stuff often when we encounter it
there's this feeling of like oh yeah I recognize that even though
the mystery of history
bye for now thanks for joining me
you
