Hello everybody, welcome.
So amazing to be in a place where there's so much life.
When I live in a city, and of course even here, you know, you can see I'm not in the
wilderness, right?
There's houses all around me, this is actually a city.
But there is so much life here compared to where I live, and so many different forms
of life.
As many of us know, we're in a time of apocalypse for the remaining, anciently conserved ecologies.
And I think it's really important to use this kind of language, right?
If you think about living worlds in space, time, and there's an analogy here to minds,
there's an analogy here to a human lifespan, but if you think about living worlds in space
time and you just imagine, right, how things go for them, and you presume that they don't
have, these living worlds do not have the kinds of threats that our world has acquired
over time.
In other words, they're not being obliterated by their own progeny, right?
Their problem child or their star performer in some ways is not ripping them to shreds
to sell their organs at the marketplace, right?
As our world is suffering this kind of attrition, rape, shriving.
So if you think about living worlds in time space, and then you compare them to our world
and you do sort of probabilistic spectrum, right, you create a continuum, you'll see
that many of those worlds get destroyed.
They're the victims of circumstance, literally meaning stance in the circle, right?
Over time, like one of the astronomical definitions of planet is a body that has cleared its orbit
of debris.
How do you clear an orbit of debris?
Well, you're kind of a chimney sweep or a Cinderella, right?
You sweep them up with your gravity, they smack into you, often wiping out whatever
life forms may have evolved there.
So when you have a world like ours, you have punctuated evolution and one of the things
it's punctuated by is catastrophe or apocalypse.
But most of this comes from, I mean, I suppose we could imagine that, or we could include
in our imagining the transformation of our world from the cyanobacteria or the organisms
for which oxygen was poisoned, right, to the present forms of life, nearly all of which
require oxygen.
There's some remnants of the old peoples, the old organisms here.
There are still organisms for whom oxygen is deadly.
But most of these amazing, astonishing things need oxygen to live.
So there was a crisis where there was a transformation of the environment, relatively rapid.
Organisms that emitted oxygen arose, and those organisms became dominant, and we are
their progeny.
But most of the apocalypses in Earth's evolutionary history, as we presently understand it, were
the result of things like impacts from, you know, stony or icy bodies in near space.
The chicksalub crater in the southern hemisphere is probably one of the most explicit of the
examples of this, and may have wiped out as much as 80 or 90% of the life then present
on Earth.
So what you, when you think about living planets, there's a continuum, right?
There's the planets that get wiped out on a pretty regular schedule, and so they never
get to develop complex organisms, because they keep getting wiped out, right?
Now, of course, there might be some survivors, and that can lead to some complexity.
But what we have on Earth is so profoundly, astonishingly, magnificently, paradisical.
We've had a pause in extinctions that was long enough for us to develop and sustain
these, eyes, water eyes, right, and these, and all of the similar organs in the insects
and the fishes and the birds and the land animals, right, their paws and their claws
and their wings, and all of these astonishing conservations over time that were made possible
by peace, right?
Earth wasn't just getting pounded by gigantic impact heights, you know, every 100,000 years
or 300,000 years or 500,000 years, and so when I say the anciently conserved ecologies,
what I mean is something unimaginably precious.
I mean the foundational contexts that allowed for the development of our bodies and minds,
and the preciousness of such a thing is impossible to exaggerate.
If you just point your finger to the sky, right, and you follow that line, probably for
100,000 light years, very unlikely, I think, that you'll encounter anything like this,
or like this.
Think about that.
Think about the vastness of space.
Now of course, you know, there's a sort of a counterargument, and the counterargument
is we don't know much about space.
Our experience of spacetime is incredibly limited to a very tiny local position, you
know, near Earth, and we don't really know a lot about interstellar space.
It's conceivable that there are forms of life or something resembling life that are
so astonishing we can't imagine them.
Space could be profligately teeming with them, and we might not even see them.
We might see no evidence of them, because our perspective is so narrow and so limited.
So it's conceivable that there are very unusual or what we would think of as exotic forms
of life, but they would think of us as exotic, right, because as far as they're concerned,
they're everywhere, and we're on this tiny little rock, you know, so it's possible.
We shouldn't exclude that possibility.
What I'm trying to say is embodied organismal life like we have here on Earth, pretty obvious
that's not going on commonly in space.
And on the planets where it does go on, most of them, there are exceptions, the big part
of the curve is going to be planets that get wiped out consistently.
So life starts to develop, becomes modestly complex, boom, it gets shattered back down
to its origins.
It starts again to develop, boom, it starts again, now it develops to the lower, boom,
right, and this cycle just keeps happening.
On Earth, we've had an incredible interval of peacetime punctuated primarily by human
cause catastrophe and apocalyptic destruction.
So it's important to realize that the beings that live around us now are very probably extremely
rare on living worlds, especially if we could take a census of living worlds, we'd probably
find that the lion's share of them don't get to develop complex life or they die young,
right.
In other words, they may start to develop life, but circumstances intervene in which they
lose their atmosphere or something really catastrophic happens.
It could be there's various things that can happen.
Life probably has the capacity to accidentally wipe itself out.
It seems clear that that's true since humans have that capacity here, though many people
don't seem to believe that that's possible.
They think that the natural environment here is so robust that it could take pretty much
anything we could throw at it and bounce back.
That's not true.
I just, it's fundamentally not true.
Complex living systems like complex societies or complex minds, they stand on very delicate
pivots and if you attack those pivots, they collapse.
So what we're seeing around here is so amazing and so beautiful.
You know, I was listening to the crickets last night and realizing I'm probably hearing
a sound from fucking eight million years ago.
I don't know how old the cricket people are precisely.
I don't need to know exactly, right.
I'm not a clinician.
I'm a human being, though I'm curious about clinical data too, but there are millions
of years old and these things are like a hundred years old, right, and they're wiping
out all of life along with many of our other machines.
So the same thing is true of minds.
Complex minds need environments capable of sustaining complex minds.
Human lives need, we are one of the most delicate creatures on earth.
Seams were very robust and seams were very powerful, but actually our people are among
the most delicate of creatures because we require protection from the environment, whereas
the other creatures, most of them are so adapted to the environment that they don't need houses,
they don't need clothes, they don't need armor, they don't need guns, they don't need machines.
They're just perfectly adapted like the octopus.
The octopus is like a living expression of the spirit of the ocean, right, it doesn't
need much, it just needs us not to fuck the oceans up or fill them with poison or plastic
or shock waves from explosive mapping techniques.
So I'm just in this place, last night I went outside my friend's house and there were so
many insects by the lights.
There was probably fourth instar praying mantis.
I'm almost never anywhere where there were praying mantises and they're one of my favorite
creatures in the world.
I've had relationships with them since I was a child, some of those relationships were
so deep and rich that my octopus teacher kind of pales in comparison actually because, well,
I haven't seen the film and I'm a gigantic fan of cephalopods and I don't really think
of myself as a fan in general but cephalopods are fucking off the charts, I love them.
But mantises are creatures in my environment that I can relate with, similar to many cephalopods
their lifespan is quite short.
Anywhere there were mantises out there, there were all kinds of insects, actually there
wasn't a huge variety but I saw a number of insects that I didn't even know what they
were and I almost never have that experience because I've been an insect enthusiast since
I was a very small child.
So I'm very excited by the life here and all the birds, the crickets, the bats, so many
bats, chipmunks, squirrels, coyotes, I haven't seen any, I know there are bears, I haven't
seen any of those yet but yeah, this place is teeming with life compared to where I live.
Last night there was distant thunder, distant lightning, so far away that I couldn't hear
any thunder but it was incredible just to watch it pulsing and lighting up the sky and
thinking about how primordial that force is and how, oh god, what it must have been like
to have a mind before there was anything resembling science, right?
Before there was anything resembling a clinical situation.
It should probably be on the other side of this road.
So there's lots of things on my mind to talk about today but I'm not sure how I'll traverse
them but I want to sing the praises of the anciently conserved ecologies, they are certainly
more valuable than anything humans have ever discovered thus far and I would trade all
of human technology for a tenth of the nature that lives here in an instant without a fucking
thought.
If I could push a button and make machines go away, I wouldn't hesitate to do that even
if it cost my life in that moment, of course the humans, you know, they would just do the
same thing again most likely but at least there'd be a pause and the ecologies could
develop and perhaps become more robust and perhaps protect themselves better against
the kinds of threats that the humans might table or perhaps the humans could be lifted
to something resembling actual integral intelligence and this is of course my dream because I don't
despise the humans, they are my species but I despise what their collectives and institutions
do primarily and those things aren't really human, it's very weird, it's almost like demons
or ghosts get a hold of our collectives because there's nothing intelligent and embodied to
guide them yet, now of course we could all, we could produce something like that and we
could do that very quickly, it's always on the table of possibility, the problem is that
the ghosts and monsters that own and have enslaved nearly all of our collectives and
our capacity for being social animals are not easily displaced, they can be displaced,
they can even be destroyed but probably not by attacking them, the best strategy is to
produce something so compelling that it starves them of the resources that they would otherwise
employ to develop and propagate themselves and so on and most situations are like that,
if you can avoid combat it's much, combat's way too expensive especially at this point in the
life history of earth, most animals are aware of this, most of their combat is primarily ceremonial,
combat to the death is uncommon in nature but it does happen, you know you can see it in
ants, right ants have something resembling war, other hymenoptera probably do, there are a few
other species that have something resembling war where they actually kill each other but most
of the animalian combat is ceremonial, it's display-oriented, right it's, we'll figure out
who could kill each other without actually fucking each other up too bad, right and then we'll go
back to living our lives, humans, they do this too but war on our world is a devastating
array of atrocities that don't just kill, I mean the humans when they have wars they don't care
what else gets killed, in fact they don't even need wars, commerce is an ongoing war against nature
and it's really weird it would be like imagine a baby who decides I'm going to table every
possible weapon against my mother, you know imagine an embryo right that just decides I'm gonna rip
this womb apart and sell it for fucking cigarettes and you know and drugs and prostitutes or whatever
right sports cars you name it that's kind of what the human collectives are doing so again I
just want to sing the praises of the anciently conserved ecologies and I feel so lucky to have
been born in a time when they still exist and when I was younger they were still fairly robust not
so much now again our own lives and minds are similar right we're easily if you wreck the
contacts that we need to develop our souls and our intelligences I wonder if that's a real thing
I'm really not sure it could be it could be that that was once a living creature I don't know
it's a troubling thing as well as a beautiful thing but I think I would find it more troubling in
some ways if it were manufactured yes let's make 10,000 replicas of the skulls of animals that we've
obliterated and then sell those skulls that's the that's the problem with representational
cognition it does shit like that all the time it turns living resources into tokens that then
get traded as people die because there's no more living resources and not just I mean
peoples die right the animal peoples plant peoples insect peoples and of course there's a
great mystery in the history of life and the origin of human beings it's it's commonly believed
that we're a natural evolutionary product of the planet meaning that there was no other there was
nothing unusual involved nothing we haven't already become aware of involved in our
our development I don't believe it I mean I'm willing to hold that position for clinical
purposes or scientific purposes anthropological purposes but I doubt it very deeply in fact
it seems to me that there must be forces and intelligences that may or may not correspond
to some aspects of what we think of as religion which is a trivialized representational derivation
of something that we probably don't really understand yet in general though some people may
the gurus and sages have penetrated some of these mysteries and each one for their own in
their own way and for their own reasons and purposes but I think what I'm trying to say
about that is that each one of us has the capacity to penetrate into the history of the
development of life and consciousness and awareness on earth because somehow inside us there's a link
that leads outside of time to collectives of intelligences that have been present since
before the beginning of this world what the nature of these intelligences are or could be
understood as is something we should suspend the urge to place into one of our familiar
categories it's more likely that to understand them in a relatively clear way we would need
new categories that we have no nothing that resembles in in in English or in our modern
thought and I don't think this theoretically I think this because I've encountered some things
like this in my own life and it's still mysterious to me what they were though I may think of them
as I may sometimes playfully categorize them using categories from existing catalogs
I wonder what the fuck that is
if anyone knows what this is please tell me
it looks like a pot but it's electric I don't know could be some kind of network repeating
device but it's very strange okay so
hmm
somehow we we have each within us a seed and for most of the humans it will not be developed
and it may never sprout but if it does otherwise impossible intelligence or creativity
or wisdom arises as the being who in with within whom this seed is sprouting so to speak
and so some of the gurus and roshis and sages and some of the prophets though
things get a little weirder when we go there because there's some dangerous ground in the
between of our ordinary ignorance right in the in the in the continuum between ordinary ignorance
and um deeply clarified wisdom there's a continuum and there's a part of that continuum a slice of
that continuum where great danger exists and the usual presentation of this problem
resembles someone like what does he call himself bashar bashar that's it that's exactly an yeah
an excellent example of the danger
trying to see if i can get the attention of this j
i don't seem likely oh there's a stellar's j i think i can get this one's attention
maybe let's see
wow these are a lot harder to attract than the ones where i live
there we go nope wow they're a lot more shy
there we go
because there are multiple nuts it tests each one and then selects the heaviest one
the one most late and now this one tests it drops it see how that works
and this is the origin of accounting in human beings
you're seeing something really ancient at play here
now there's one left and it's trying to figure out if it's worth the risk
and it's decided that it is they can see at least two nuts it's going to just pick the first one
that's great it's exactly the kind of thing i was hoping to sort of demonstrate here right
you want to understand how counting got started something like that
animals can determine approximate value
right except they don't think in those terms probably it's it's unclear what
what their mind experience is like but they certainly have some even relatively what we
would think of as relatively simple animals they have some experience of something resembling mind
so yeah Bashar is an example of someone in that slice right where
the ego becomes involved and there's a secondary intelligence involved and
i had an experience like this and could easily have come out like that like that guy or
someone who resembles him a psychic a medium something like that i decided that there were
there was more important and less dangerous things to pursue
because the ego investment right the ego inflates under the pressure of being associated with a
non-human intelligence or a super human intelligence right and intelligence that is at once human and
beyond the ordinary thing and so i think of these things as quite dangerous in general
there are probably prophets who avoid many of the traps and clarify their wisdom while
maintaining this sort of duality right of a human mind and relationships with an array of
non-human minds and certainly some of our writers some of our finest writers are like this in a way
i'm hoping that i've chosen a path
that will take me back toward my origin point
what an ironic thing to say because
if only we could travel in our consciousness along such a path that brought us ever closer
to its origin state i think we would learn very astonishing and beautiful things
perhaps i accidentally managed something resembling that at one time
so this afternoon i'm going to switch topics now this afternoon i was at my friend's house
he has a dog
and he said he has a deck deck has a screen door
the dog said i mean he said he said to me you know the dog is funny if i
if i put him on the deck and i leave the screen door open
he will travel around on the deck
and find a place that he likes
and settle down there
but if i close the screen door he will invariably settle in front of the screen door
and just wait for it to be opened so he can come back in
and my friend is very adept at evaluating people extremely skillful at this vastly more skillful
than me but i think he thinks of the behavior of animals as uninteresting or trivial
so he doesn't bring it within the realm of his consciousness
and use it to learn with the way that i do
and i said well this is exactly the kind of behavior that i find fascinating
because it teaches me something about myself is like what do you mean
i said if my options are open i'll move freely but if i'm concerned about being trapped or limited
i will hover at the doorway where my concern lies and he was like oh yeah i can see what you mean
and interestingly that particular um circumstance stance in the circle right
imagine that um i'm gonna bird i'm gonna branch off for a second here imagine that someone is
speaking or doing a ceremony or anything like that and they are facing one direction let's say
they are facing east the direction that we associate with origin due to its association
with the sunrise right so east is origin birth emergence
newness origination and all these things so let's say they begin by facing east
and they do the beginning part of the ceremony
and then perhaps they turn to the south the people seated around them
will each have different will receive very different visual impressions
sound and other stimuli your position in the circle determines
in some ways what you're capable what you are likely to receive
and imposes limits on what you can receive what you will not receive
what you will experience not experience be involved in not be involved in and so on
but my friend circumstance has a strong resemblance in a sense to the situation with his dog
so it was interesting it wasn't my intent to highlight that i was just noticing
i'm just like that dog because he was saying you know it's funny the dog does this thing
i was like sounds like me you know i do something pretty similar
in fact the you know the weight analysis of the stellar's jays not entirely dissimilar
what's the best thing i can get out of this in terms of my capacity to you know measure
so when i watch the animals i think about their minds their their cognition their experience
and they teach me astonishing things all the time about my own mind
and this is also part of why it's a funny little diorama let's have a moment of this here
so this is in a way a shrine
to the little people if i remember correctly and i may get this wrong
i've only said this word a few times oh that was quite a moment of dizziness
if i if i remember correctly and as i said i may get this wrong
uh in blackfoot the little people are called potokkopi or potokkapi i think kapi
so they have their own traditional knowledge about the little people
and sometimes it may be associated with particular forms of stones
that in their way are like little people
i sure hope this uh the street leads me somewhere
near where i want to go because if it just keeps going up and up
oh good it looks like it may be going down i will get trapped and i'll have to retrace my route
so all of the creatures teach me
and some of the creatures are vastly more accessible and intelligent than others
and the most accessible intelligence in in um insects for me
is the praying mantis because you can form a long-term relationship with this animal
it will recognize you or respond to you it will participate and learn with you
even though it has a very short lifespan of about six months
i have another topic or few a few topics in mind ah thank goodness i think
this street will lead me home if i'm lucky
so though i have a few other topics in mind that i want to uh explore
because i have some other things to do and also i want to just um have some peaceful walking time
i uh i think i'll save them for later
but i'm so grateful to have this time and this day in my life to share with you all
and to grow and learn to see and love
and nurture our awareness together so thank you very much for joining me
i look forward to learning together again very soon bye bye for now
