Hey everybody, welcome to another evening walk out getting a little exercise and some
machine noise in case we didn't have enough.
The idea that I'm considering at the moment is where do things go, or perhaps more poetically.
Where is the nature of distinction or separation and unity?
If we think carefully, if we think with curiosity and passion and inspiration, we might find
the polarities that we're familiar with on and off, hot and cold, plus and minus, positive
and negative, separate and unified.
These are profoundly fundamental in all of our thinking and all of our behavior, particularly
behavior that's driven by thought.
So if we do away with the concept of separation, or we do away with the concept of unity if
we dismiss either of these, we find there's nothing left to think.
The reason that we find this is that way down underneath our ideas, we depend upon what
you might think of as branching protocols.
But fundamentally all of our ideas require both the capacity and the intention or the
purpose of distinguishing and unifying.
And it's reasonable for us to suppose that things arise and go away.
Hey Trina, nice to see you.
Also you see in saying hello to my friend, I'm acknowledging a limited but important
kind of unity and recognition.
See the people nearby, we're discussing how will they unify because they're going in
two different directions.
It'll take me a moment here.
One of the first things I was thinking when I began to consider speaking about this this
evening was that the appearance of distinction on the surface implies unity hidden somewhere.
And one of the best and most familiar examples is the child and his or her parents.
So the child comes into being by the exchange of fluids between the parents.
And there's physically as we understand it, as we tend to think about it a receptive parent
and a penetrative parent and under certain conditions of unity inside the receptive parent
and embryo forms, which is a mixture of assets from the father and the father's exceptionally
profound lineage, not just their human lineage, but all of the beings that their lineage related
with and loved and ate and fought and the lineage of the mother and similarly.
And so we all begin our lives with very few exceptions these days as an organ in the body
of our mother, an organ that must achieve separation in some domains in physical domains.
So this organ will grow within the mother to a certain point and then will be externalized
from the mother's body and then will be physically separated from the mother's body.
The umbilicus will be cut.
And now we have a new proto human, the baby infant.
And so the unity that was present very clearly, the mother and the baby are both, well, they're
inside one body together.
We can say the baby is distinct within the womb already.
But it's very difficult to, how shall I say this?
That distinction is contingent, right?
It's a contingent distinction because fundamentally they're still one body.
And then when the baby is born, now there are two bodies.
Where does the unity go?
What happens to the unity?
And we can see that it transforms.
The changes from some physical domains we might distinguish, not all of them, because
there are many domains of unity that remain more or less true after the separation of
the child from the mother.
But the unity finds new domains of expression and they are not blatantly obvious, right?
We might recognize a child that we don't know and a mother that we don't know if shown
images of them as from the same family or we might not.
We might just see them as separate beings.
And the underlying idea that I had was that whenever we see what appears to be distinction,
what we find when we look deeper is unity.
But the unity has departed some domains and been re-expressed or embodied in others.
And so the child and their mother remain deeply unified even though they are no longer one
body.
Their unity proceeds and we might say even develops in new dimensions, in new ways and
forms and processes.
So there is the appearance of the loss of unity in one dimension that we could look
at when the child is physically born.
But that appearance is contradicted as other forms of unity arise.
In many of my previous talks I've spoken about an idea that I'm calling the invisibles,
which points at aspects of our embodiment and cognition and potential, perhaps our souls,
that are hidden from our common ways of thinking and ideas but are accessible to us in our
interiority within ourselves, within our being.
And it strikes me that unity and distinction might be insufficient to help us understand
in a deep way what is at play here and how we are in this play together.
But we can start there relatively safely.
You know when I have a thought, the thought could be said to occur in a field, in the
field of my experience, and that includes at least my history and perhaps also my future.
I'm mistrustful of the idea that there is no way to sense the future.
I'm mistrustful of the idea that time is linear even though this accords with our common
experience of it, because I've had other experiences that contradict these ideas.
But it's not my intention to dwell on the more complex idea of time, rather I'm concerned
with how unity becomes invisible when our attention is drawn to distinction.
And how unity can be recovered to our awareness under certain conditions of interiority or
context.
Many of our noblest ideas about being human arise from a supposition or a position that
we are all essentially one, and this idea extends far beyond the human realm into all
of the aspects of nature that we in the universe are one, that we in the plants are one, that
we in the microbes are one.
Now of course the human animal is an extremely complex unity, so complex that I think with
all the knowledge our species has gained, the representational knowledge, the clinical
knowledge, I suspect we as yet understand something like one percent of what is going
on even if we took all of the ideas.
And part of the reason for that is that language and ideas do not encompass that which they
refer to, rather they distinguish and characterize that which they refer to in language or perhaps
mathematics, but of course also art, dance, music, song, craft, wonder.
So we can see that the physical separation of the mother and the child initiates a cascade
of new developmental unities that happen in dimensions other than the physical body.
The child is clearly, at least in our common way of thinking, outside the mother's body
now, that initial union has been transformed.
And the new, the initial union is visible in the pregnant belly of the mother, but those
further unions are not visible.
The unities that develop over time between the mother and the child, they're not visible,
though there may be some aspects we could pick out that are.
And this is an astonishing feature.
And here I began to think about arithmetic and what happens when we think about quantifying
things, comparing them, transforming them, the basis of our mathematical knowledge and
of many of our sciences, particularly physics.
We have these signs.
The horizontal dash means to subtract.
And we begin with, if we're going to do simple subtraction, we begin with a unity, a quantified
unity such as five.
And we subtract, you know, we put a sign indicating transformation.
And we subtract a number such as two.
And then there are two horizontal dashes, right?
That's the sign of moving to a new domain of concern or awareness.
And we assert that three is the result, a new unity, the initial, it's a transformation
of the initial unity, right, five minus two.
But where does the two go?
And has the five actually changed?
Because if we don't proceed from left to right in the equation, the five is still five.
The five is still five even after we subtract three.
Because the five, the initial unity and what is subtracted are not the same, though we
treat them as the same in thought.
We rarely ask ourselves when doing subtraction, five what?
And that five presumes a unity of type, of class, right?
We presume that the five things are five of the same things because our mathematics normalizes
identity in a strange way, causing us to think that one apple plus one apple equals two apples.
But this is neither the beginning nor the end of the mystery of numbers.
They're much deeper and stranger than they appear on the surface.
And of course, if we add a vertical dash to the horizontal dash, we get plus.
And if we keep the numbers the same, five plus two, we get seven.
And now the two is included, at least in our thought, in the result.
But it's interesting.
Where does the two go when we subtract it, right?
Where does it go?
It's still on the left side of the equal sign.
It had some relationship with the five that we've signified by the subtraction sign.
And we can go on and look at multiplication, turning the X, and division where we have
a dot above the horizontal dash and a dot below it.
And we could explore the whole of mathematics this way.
And it's very interesting to do so.
But my questions here are not so much mathematical.
They're more about assumptions we make about unity and division without ordinarily thinking
about them.
In quantum physics, we have the confusing problem of entanglement, where, in a very
simple way of speaking about it, it appears from our current perspective that I think
is crude and primitive in the sense of being unenlightened.
But in our current perspectives, we find that, apparently, measuring what we consider to
be an entity with certain properties, like spin or polarization or color, and probably
particular kinds of entities like electrons or photons, which, again, I think our knowledge
of is profoundly perfunctory, very early days.
And often, when we think about these matters, we think, oh, we live in a time of very advanced
ideas and knowledge.
It's not untrue from one perspective, but from the perspective of deep understanding,
it's profoundly untrue.
We don't know what anything is.
We have names for things we have distinguished and things we can place in very strange contexts
for testing and measurement.
And testing and measurement, either of these purposes, they transform everything.
They transform how we are in the world and also how the world is in us.
And we might do well to be suspicious of testing and measurement and the transformations on
relationships that they impose.
But my goal was simply to point out that the idea of entanglement is quite strange to our
common ways of thinking, because something seeming to us to be impossible happens where
if we measure an entity here, its paired entity elsewhere, perhaps even in another galaxy,
will be found to be in the opposite polarity.
Something like this.
I'm not a physicist.
I like to think about problems in physics.
And this implies, to me, not so much the idea that information is being transmitted across
a distance faster than light, but rather that there's something we don't understand about
unity and its nature and relationships with distinction in time space.
And I think we're missing a third element.
And that element may well be related to what we refer to as consciousness.
But I'm not proposing that it is.
Rather I am proposing that what appears to us as the distance between these two particles
in time space, and thus perhaps in their world lines in relativity, is being misconstrued.
Because although they appear and can be treated as distinct in thought or equation, when we
do the measurement, it becomes clear that they are not distinct in the ways that we
might be accustomed to think of them.
I think I remember one physicist having a rather shocking insight one day.
I can't recall where I heard of this conversation.
But someone very famous, a famous physicist, was conversing, I think, with one of his professors
or perhaps his thesis advisor, and said, very insightfully and dangerously, what if there's
only one electron?
What if all the electrons are fundamentally one electron?
That's a very interesting question to me.
And I like the style of mind that this kind of question arises from.
And one of the things I'm trying to say about entanglement is that the unity is hidden somewhere.
Somewhere outside of our models and our common ideas and thought.
We insist that these two particles are distinct, yet if we measure one here, we will find that
the one there has certainly collapsed, we might say, although that's a weird word, into
the polar opposite of the state of the particle we measured.
And I may be misrepresenting this a bit, nonetheless, even with my clumsy description,
it's good enough for my purpose.
What is distance?
What is separation?
What is unity?
If we go looking for unity, we find different things, different properties, qualities, characteristics,
and behaviors than if we go looking for separation.
And so somehow the purpose of our looking and thinking, it changes what we observe.
And this is obvious to us as human beings, because if I go looking for the most delicious
apple at the grocery store, I will learn over time to recognize features of apples that
are likely to encode or embody deliciousness.
But if I go looking for the cheapest apple, if I just change my purpose in distinguishing,
then my experience of apples and what I will learn of them will also change.
And so our purpose in looking necessarily affects what our awareness, consciousness,
and thought will derive.
And I've spoken of this at great length, because although we have many ways of knowing methods
and models within them, none of us are trained well in the precursors to ways of knowing.
And particularly in understanding the relationship between purpose and observation, between purpose
and measurement, between purpose and modeling.
The night has come here, the sun has set.
And if we did not know better, or maybe because we know worse, when the sun goes away, I don't
believe that it is gone.
But it must have been very difficult for many of our ancestors to suppose when the sun had
set that actually it's still there.
We just can't see it for a period.
And so they had important stories about the birth and the death of the sun in the day.
Now if we think about unity and distinction locally, and we think about the origins of
life and the nature of being around here and so on.
The earth is extremely important, and we can modulate our perspective purposeively so
that it's the most important thing.
There's obviously no earth, no minds, no minds like ours, no Darren's mind.
But if we think more about lineage, if we change our perspective, we find that everything
here depends upon the sun.
And thus must be an expression of the unification of time space, the sun, the moon, the earth,
the planets, the history of the solar system.
So when we walk back up the ladder of origin, we quickly discover that one way of thinking
about everything as a unity is that we can think about it as an expression of the sun.
And strangely, this must include our consciousness, our consciousness, our bodies, our minds.
They developed on this world over unimaginable forms and continuities of time.
And I say unimaginable because the way we measure time is a little bit weird.
We divide it into flat annual cycles.
Man was talking about dragons to a child in the face of a warming furnace and saying,
you know, a dragon breathes fire.
I learned something astonishing last night, which was that the idea of dragon comes from
the Greek word dracos, which clearly is related to our myth of dracula.
With this word, it means terrible eye and the terribility.
It doesn't just mean horror, but rather something like destroying power to be seen by this eyes
to be destroyed.
And I was unaware of this etymological curiosity till last night where I discovered it in a
book called Broad Sides from Other Orders About Insects.
For me to have an idea, I must have the field of consciousness and history in which ideas
conform and some ideas can change that entire field.
And the careful exploration of ideas of separateness, distinction, unity, communion.
These are the fundamental roots, not merely of thought, though they are certainly very
trenchant in thought.
Remove separation, no more thoughts, no more math, no more physics, no science.
It depends entirely on how we play with separation and unity.
So if we were to have our ideas fundamentally transformed, and many people do, perhaps most
of us at some point in our lives, we have some experience and it fundamentally changes
how we thought or think about separation.
I remember walking up to a woman when I was in an unusual state of mind, and perhaps more
than mind, I think my soul, my essence was in an unusual state.
So I approached this woman and she was having a garage sale.
And I'd never seen her before, or at least I'd never knowingly seen her before.
And as I looked at the objects she was selling, it was as if aspects of her interiority were
available to my intelligence in a way completely unlike anything I ordinarily experienced.
There were no drugs involved in this situation.
And I said to her, you know, your name is Jane, of course that wasn't the name that
she had, I'm just making that one up.
And she said, yes, do I know you?
And I said, no, I don't think so.
And I was touching some of the things she was selling.
And I said to her, your father, he died of a disease that he got from mining coal.
And she said, how do you know that?
And I just smiled at her because I could not explain to her how I knew that.
In fact, I cannot explain to you how I knew that.
And I went on to say a couple of other things about her, you know, that she had been thinking
about writing a book about his life.
And because she could not imagine that there was something non-ordinary occurring, she
became extremely suspicious and felt that I had been spying on her.
And so that exchange transformed and we parted.
But I could sense with senses I did not know I had things about her that would be impossible
for me to know under ordinary models of what is supposed to be accessible to our awareness
as human beings.
I don't need an explanation nor am I proposing one.
I'm merely trying to say that at that time in my life, and this kind of thing happened
to me many times, and it happened not just merely with humans but also with animals.
I was able to know things not intellectually with another aspect of my being as a human
or maybe even as a non-human.
And they were valid things that I knew.
It was true about her name.
It was true about her father.
It was true about the book.
And this experience transformed what I believed about being a separate human, being very dramatically.
And it radically transformed the foundations of my thought forever.
Even though these days I feel and think mostly like a relatively ordinary person.
I have memories of those experiences and have written here and there about some of them.
My point is really that the invisibles of unity are accessible to us under certain circumstances.
Even though our common ideas or explanations may suppose either that this is impossible
or that it's explicable in the sense of, oh you know, I was just being psychic.
And you know, I'm not particularly fond of that explanation, though it's fine if we want
to word for non-ordinary sensing.
And much of our capacity with non-ordinary sensing depends very strongly on our relationship
with the ideas of unity and distinction.
I'm going to pause for a moment and then I will reconvene in a little bit.
I am back.
It's funny because although that story with that particular woman happened long ago, I
just passed the place where it happened.
And it wasn't in my mind to do so.
And as I said, I've had many other similar experiences.
And in the state of mind I was in then, or the state of being, I was astonished by my
experience and its implications.
But there was a strange sense of, I remember being this way before, there was a strange
sense of familiarity.
In fact, a kind of familiarity that is deeply profound and unlike the common forms I was
used to.
Perhaps I was undergoing a process spoken of in some traditions, a process of an amnesis
which is the reversal of the forgetting that happens to us in our human lives as we age.
And perhaps is related to other existences, I won't necessarily call them previous, that
we usually would think of them this way.
And this is a process that others have undergone, particularly in certain meditation traditions
or yogic traditions.
And my own experience of it is partial and peculiar.
But what I understood then, what happened to me then was that the unity that is hidden
everywhere in distinction, I became aware of it and it became accessible to me consciously
in various ways.
And perhaps the most surprising of those ways was something very difficult to describe.
But it had to do with the unification or rather a form of knowledge that unifies all the forms
that we have distinguished as humans, a form of knowledge that comes before them has precedence
to them, much in the same way that if we think about what's going on around here, we might
usefully turn our attention to the sun.
The nature of being and of existence is not like how we think, it is vital and alive,
it is astonishingly beautiful.
And though it contains birth and death, in some aspects there is neither birth nor death
in the essence of it.
This is a very confusing thing for those of us who want polar models of explanation, either
it's unified or it's distinct.
This is not possible for this to be true, except in a sort of earsat framework that
we invent to help us model things.
It's not my purpose to explain the nature of unity and distinction, but rather to make
a little spark over there in the minds of my listeners and encourage them to explore
roughly and passionately the relationship between this specific pair of ideas and their
own minds and all other ideas.
For way down at the root of things, separation and unity, we have various modes of separation
that effloresce, like those of the child, and various modes of unity that then result,
like the new kinds of unity that arise between the mother and the child as they continue
to develop as human beings together.
And of course the father and the child too, it's just that the mother is a bit more primordial
since the child's first home is her body.
If you wish, sometime take a moment and call out to the great field of living beings on
earth in love and recognition and ask to remember and ask them to help you learn.
And if you are both passionate and persistent and lucky, you will discover things.
Humans have long forgotten or have entirely misconstrued.
I hope that we may discover such things together in this and future conversations.
Thank you for joining me.
May the new year be gentle and kind and beautiful in your life.
Bye bye for now.
