Hey everybody. Welcome. As it's already getting dark, I think it's likely that my camera will
select a Kodak that makes the picture a bit blurrier. But I'm pretty sure that most of
the people who, most of the extremely few people who pay attention to my videos, aren't particularly
concerned with watching them, and more likely just listen to them, which is fine. Although I think
at the same time there's a lot more bandwidth when we're able to see each other's faces,
even though it's rather confusing to our bodies and probably our minds, that the videos invert
what I think we would see if we were face-to-face. So that what is on the right, now okay, if we
were face-to-face, what I see on the right is this side or the left of the person in front of me.
But I think what we see on the videos is what I see on the right, which should be the other
person's left is actually the right. And for hundreds of thousands of years of human history
and of living organismal history, this was impossible. There was no chance that that could
possibly ever happen. Those two things could never get confused that way. There was no situation in
which they could be thus confused. Now, someone could argue, well, there were mirrors.
But we couldn't, we could only look at ourselves in a mirror. We couldn't really look at a person
in front of us as though we were seeing them in a mirror. And so I suspect this has caused,
along with many of the problems of our electronic situation, including the fact that if we are
having a video conversation, for me to give someone my gaze, right, for me to meet their eyes,
I have to look away from their image and my own image into a black thing at the top of my camera,
like I'm doing right now, which means that we cannot have eye contact or even something that
simulates it in our electronic communications. And that is bizarre and troubling. And we should be
very concerned about this kind of thing. However, the reasons we should be concerned aren't because
we should be angry, and they aren't because we should be frightened. These two sort of, you know,
limbic system hacks that we're all being exposed to constantly by news and social media, and similar
things. Just a moment here.
It's profitable, since attention has become the new money, human attention, humans paying
attention to things. It's profitable to go for the sort of low hanging fruit, the stuff that's
easiest to get. And it turns out that because of our evolutionary heritage and problems in modern
and recent cultural and information, the evolution of culture and information,
language, images, films, and so on, and the particular paths that were taken by our species and
our societies in the possibility landscape, right? Of the entire possibility landscape,
the specific choices that kept getting made over and over again, and being doubled down on,
have resulted in a tree of catastrophes for human intelligence, social coherence,
fulfillment, the possibility of having meaningful lives and relationships, and so on,
in a context that is almost completely counterfeited for the purpose of essentially triggering our
nervous systems. And there's plenty of examples of this, but I don't want us to be angry or upset.
I want us to be attentive and mindful, because if we are mindful, then we can understand how these
problems and situations evolved, and why it was that the specific kinds of choices and developments
within the possibility landscape were selected for, and doubled down on, and re-selected for,
and so on, recursively, in a kind of strangely almost demonic or evil algorithm. Once we can
understand this, we achieve the possibility of escaping it together, even if we only escape it
in small tightly knit groups, or one-on-one, or even in our own minds. It's not really a useful
goal to try to save the world. What we want to do, primarily because it's too broad a goal,
what would be more useful, is if we could develop small, highly effective, highly contagious forms
of awareness, understanding, play, adventure, that granted us meaningful roles together that we
could enact in our day-to-day lives, in our relationships, in our jobs, in media, that would
lead us to the possibility of escape from the layered array of prisons that are otherwise
certain to entrap us and future generations, not merely of human beings, but of all life on earth.
This kind of goal will not be accomplished by outrage. It will not be accomplished by finger
pointing, accusation, determining who's got the privilege, who's the oppressor, none of that will
help us. In fact, those particular goals and agendas, however seemingly noble, their underlying
structure may appear to us superficially, those goals are toxic because punishing the oppressor is
the opposite of dissolving the oppression, right? Replacing the oppression with something so beautiful
and human, humane and intelligent, that nobody is willing to stand aside from it, and everyone wants
a piece of enacting that beautiful way of being human together. That's what the future,
that's the kind and species and flavor of future we must work together for. If indeed,
we want a humane, intelligent future of equality and opportunity for all human beings, and for
all beings. Now, equality is a bizarre idea in and of itself, but I'm not going to attempt to
take down of that at the moment. It's a pretty low hanging fruit. It's pretty easy to take that
apart. There's no such thing as being born equal. No one is equal to any other human being. What
we mean when we use the word equality, what we should be saying or hope to mean is something more
like not merely the freedom from the concern of being discriminated against for some particular
feature of our appearance, ethnicity, gender, identity, so on and so forth, but rather what we
want is equality of esteem and equality or even something like equality isn't even the right goal.
Celebration is the right goal, right? What we want is to be celebrated for the unique and personal
aspects and assets that we bring to our humanity day to day and the developmental possibilities.
We want all of our developmental possibilities to be supported and nurtured and celebrated and rewarded.
Now, this is an unlikely proposition for a number of reasons. There are reasons why we're in the
situation that we're in now and have long been. There are important reasons why humans and even
animals in nature that have no linguistic or conceptual culture nonetheless enact hierarchies.
Some people have poorly made this argument or made it in such a way that it's pretty easy to tear
apart. I think Jordan Peterson is one of them and some of my friends are very upset with me
because I find him interesting, but I don't find people interesting. Eric Weinstein uses a statement
that I doubt he came up with, but it's a brilliant idea. He's like, you don't go to a restaurant
and sign up for the whole menu, right? You order things that you like off the menu and you eat
those and enjoy them. And this is how it is with intelligent people that I pay attention to. There
are things that Jordan Peterson has said that I find surprisingly unenlightened, so to speak,
but there are many things and many positions that he holds that I think are profoundly worth
listening to and often for me quite edifying. Additionally, even if I disliked him as a human
being or if I disliked his agenda or something like this, I would still have the presence of
mind to pay close attention to him so that I could understand why it is that I dislike him
in a very detailed and developmentally useful way for my own mind.
But my goal here is to say like, with intelligent people, we don't sign up for the whole menu.
We get to selectively relate with their presentations and their mind and their
arguments and their positions and their perspectives, their dissertations, their
lectures, their writings, and so on. And it's very important that we do so because
even it's important that people do this with me. Even incredibly intelligent people
have biases and get things wrong. And we don't want to be angry about their biases. We just want
to understand how they came to those biases and how we can diffuse the biases to get to higher
ground together. That's the goal. Higher ground together, getting there together. It's not going
to be accomplished by getting pissed off. It's not going to be accomplished by finger pointing.
It's not that certain forms of expose, you know, expose like
discussion and writing and
consideration of histories and circumstances and situations, those can be important. But when
their goal, when the goal of those things is to vilify some specific class, person, gender,
people, race, cohort, we're in trouble. We're in great danger at that point because instead
of establishing something better, we've decided to punish the oppressor. And punishing the oppressor
is the wrong direction toward liberty, in my view. This isn't to say that there are no
situations in which an oppressor or predator or opportunist should be punished. However,
personally, I'm not a huge fan of the punishment idea. It seems like a lot of work for not much
value. And it seems like we're going to create cohorts and involve them in torturing people who've
made either intentional or unintentional mistakes or were ignorant. And that doesn't bode well for
a future of enlightened humanity or society, in my view. I've never believed, I think prison is one
of the dumbest things humans ever invented. And cages in general are a bad idea. But these are
complex things. I'm laying these on the table far too simply. I could go into detail about these
things, but that's not really my goal. And in fact, the reason that I'm on this topic is
there was a film recently about social media and its dangers. I've been studying this for 15 years.
Again, I have a model of something I call the knowledge amp that would invert most of the
problems of the way that we're relating with electronic information in our time and give us
assets and access to forms of intelligence that are otherwise impossible for human beings to
participate in. Doubt I'll ever get to make that. I'm a guy by myself out in the world with four
followers or something. So not likely that I'll suddenly make a bid to sell the idea to someone.
And I don't really want to sell the idea to anyone because it's the kind of thing that has to be
communally owned by the participants rather than being built by a corporation or funded by angel
investors and so on. However, there was a recent video clip from I think Rebel Wisdom in which
Daniel Schmocktenberger, guy I appreciate a lot, threat analyst, brilliant exemplary human being
in my view, was talking about how Facebook and social media, other social media corporations
are more powerful than governments, markets, and one other thing I can't, maybe religions. I can't
remember the third thing. And I saw this coming like more than a decade ago. I knew that information
was the new form of money and power and particularly that the analytics produced by everyday human
beings as they interact with electronic media are going to become the single most important commodity
in the near-term future. And that means that those who control that commodity, especially if they are
non-human simulated organisms, the things we call corporations, I call them what,
para-human intelligence collectives, that's the most dangerous situation we could find ourselves in.
I mean we might as well just give everybody some uranium and have them swallow a big pill of it
or something. I mean it's just completely fucking stupid. But again, being angry about it isn't the
right move and won't help us. What we have to do is establish something better. In every case,
instead of getting upset, we have to show the path toward the better thing. I saw someone saying some
ridiculous finger-pointing nonsense on Facebook today and a couple of people intelligently
responded, you know, let's stop yelling at the, look, once we've got an arrow through our heart,
yelling at the people who fired it isn't going to help us. We need to help each other take the
arrow out and maybe do something about these bows, right? So there's something very important about
that idea. The people who were responding had realized that yelling at the perpetrator doesn't
work, right? And in fact, not only exacerbates the problem of continuing to divide us as human
beings, one from another, into tribal cohorts who, you know, everybody but three other cohorts are the
enemy. This is a future fraught with every kind of peril we cannot yet imagine. We must not go
down this road. We must find better roads than this. So I don't want us to be angry and outraged
when we see wrongdoing. I want us to trace those diseases back to their origins, learn to understand
what drove their inaction and development and embodiment, build another path in the possibility
landscape, colonize that path with a few people so that they can exemplify the benefits and wonder
and playfulness and hope and beauty of the new path and thus make contagious adventuring systems
that give us meaningful roles in our lives as human beings in the future and for our children
and for our elderly and for everyone, for everyone, right? It's the only obvious,
it's only obvious that this is the right way to go and that a future of endlessly more specific
prosecutions, accusations, and exclusions leads to disaster. Although we are all in this together,
all life is in this together, that's what it means to be on a tiny little floating drop of water in
a void around a relatively benevolent sun, right? You're in this together, you can believe that
shit. This is a very, very tiny and much smaller than it used to be context. It's smaller than it
used to be for a weird reason. Humans have learned to cross all kinds of gaps and to make new kinds
of gaps and then cross them with machines. Instead of crossing gaps with love and interrelation,
mutual concern, adoration, joy, education, and so on, we've decided to make a bunch of gaps that
have to do with the haves and the have-nots and pretend that people can cross those
in essentially counterfeit ways using technologies and such. Lots of other things are going on,
it's not the only thing, but my point here is weirder than what I started with.
The reason that I was talking about the problems is just because I'd recently come across some clips,
including the one with Daniel Schmockenberger on Rebel Wisdom, about the dangers of social media.
And long ago, during a long experience of unexpected insight and awareness,
I discovered that life is a gap-crossing phenomenon. It does this really crazy stuff.
It, first of all, crosses gaps that otherwise would seem impossible, and in case that's not
obvious to you, just look at humans going to the moon, right? Or even traveling from Europe
to the Americas. Now, of course, that kind of gap-crossing was inspired by goals that I think
we might reasonably understand to be malignant. People were looking for gold and commodities and
things to support kingdoms and stuff. City builders, big mess, really bad idea. But in general,
those humans were enacting what we can think of as a protocol or a property of life itself, right?
Which is to span the gulf. And there's lots of different ways that this goes on. One of my
friends, Ryan Firstiver, who I'm very close with, he is a gap-spanner guy. He's a bridge guy. So he's
a bridge between what we might think of as, with some certain perspectives, what we might think of
white colonial peoples and the Blackfoot people. He's half Blackfoot, half colonial. So that puts
him right in the middle already. He spans the gap between the rattlesnake population and the people
of Lethbridge, Alberta, and he's an ambassador for the rattlesnakes. And so the snakes have come to
know him as an ambassador, a person who stands between them and the people who might otherwise
fear and or kill them. He rescues rattlesnakes. Rattlesnakes are protected in Lethbridge, Alberta.
He does this with other animals and birds and other living things and living places as well. So
this is a guy who stands in the between of different forms of life as an ambassador and kind
of as a buffer to keep damage from passing back and forth, right? To keep the rattlesnakes from
biting the humans and to keep the humans from killing the rattlesnakes, even though of course
the rattlesnakes are protected. And they're protected for very good reasons, important reasons.
Now, all of us in our lives, we cross gaps, gaps between the real and the imaginary,
the possible, the probable, the actual, between life and death, between waking and dreaming,
between starvation and satiation, between love and hate. There are all these little gaps that we're
constantly crossing. And in case it's not obvious, this crap we call electronic technology
is a process that endlessly invents new gaps and new mostly fake ways or toxic ways to cross them.
And so our technologies are emulating this feature of our humanity that very few of us
have ever had the opportunity to become aware of. I was noticing my friend,
my friend's little child yesterday who's one year old. And I was watching him greet
various people who approached us and I realized suddenly, oh my god,
the little children see themselves as ambassadors in a way. And, you know, we can decide in different
ways to talk about who and what they are the ambassadors of. But once they get a chance to
master enough of using their new human body in their incarnation, they immediately sort of become
ambassadors both from childhood to the adults and the other children around them, but also from
the before of existence to embodied existence, they can still, we might imagine, remember the
before of being human. And so they are ambassadors of the before and are greeting people joyfully
to remind them of something that for most adults anyway and many children has long been lost in
the developmental storms of, you know, getting older and becoming in language and the process of
becoming inculturated, which are mostly processes of painting on occlusive layers of bullshit
ideas, concepts, words, nomenclature, knowledge forms, methods that effectively stifle and inhibit
it. The entire possibility landscape of our developmental efflorescence, proclivities,
precociousness, natural precociousness, and innate, anciently evolved intelligences
that each of us is carrying. And we're not merely carrying them, we are each the unique ambassador
of an array of relationships that modern human minds are too timid to conceive of and would
actually be obliterated by even entertaining the possibility of their existence. There are,
the actual, what's actually going on in the universe are things so staggeringly profound
that our wildest fantasies look timid and completely uncreative in the face of what
they're what they're standing in the way of us seeing, right? The nature of time space and
intelligence in time space, what's actually going on here as living beings in living minds
is an adventure and like a fantasy story so astonishingly beautiful and profound
that the sum of books that humans have ever written, the entire uvra of human ideation
is like a charred piece of nat shit compared to what we're made of and what we're made to
live and discover and become together. So we definitely don't want to trade our innate
birthrights away for endlessly mass produced counterfeits and fantasy stories that while
reminiscent of something within us do not deliver that something into our direct experience,
do not recover it to our direct access and relation, understanding awareness and embodiment.
We are gap crossers and everything in life is like this, the gap between one heartbeat and the
next, this breath and the next one, the first one and the last one and so on, the gap between me
and my beloved, those who I would adore and those who I would oppose, all of these gaps. If you look
carefully at what life is doing and you try to find out what's one of the most fundamental ways to
understand what organisms are up to, this idea of inventing and crossing gaps to produce
developmental possibilities that were previously unthinkable is one of the simplest, most profound
and most universal things we might perceive or that might come into our awareness when
beginning to ask this question with passion and curiosity and an authenticity and sincerity
if we're asking the question with deep integrity. So now it's pretty dark and I've covered some
of the terrain that I was hoping to cover, particularly the terrain related to the topic
of crossing gaps and I began in light and I will end in darkness and there's an example of crossing
a gap. Think of all the different ways humans want to fill time. So them watching shows or
listening to podcasts or doing chores or whatever it is they're doing, all of these are ways of
productively, quote unquote, navigating what we think of as a span of time
and it's interesting that we use this language, it's not accidental.
So now that it is dark and I have a few other gaps to cross before I get home,
I will thank you for joining me and wish you all insight, good roles,
wonder, enthusiasm, fascination, love, joy and the blessings
of success in all the aspects of your day, world, life and relationships.
Bye-bye for now. See you soon, I hope.
