Hello everybody. Welcome. Out for a walk this evening under the night sky. Here's a very old cat.
Justly suspicious of me, but also interested.
I like old cats. I'm a big fan of old cats, but I'm a pretty big fan of just about everything
that's alive, though I'm not hugely inspired by having a bedroom full of mosquitoes. I
used to kill them, and I'll admit I've killed a few recently, but I'm extremely unfaunt
of killing things. When I was younger, and before I was, let's see, maybe from the time
I was 9 until I was 15 or 16, I was a pretty enthusiastic fisherman. This is a word that
may lose its common usage due to what we call identity politics, something I think of mostly
as a very dangerous array of language games. Though as I've said in other videos, well,
the topic's quite complex because there are no such things as equal humans. And there
are a thousand different kinds of privilege, not one or two. I mistrust the fundamental
structure of the milieu and origins of identity politics very deeply. I also recognize the
necessity for developing careful language and respect for each other in our diversity.
And that's something I believe very deeply, and I just simply don't believe at all that
identity politics is the right way to go about that, or even an intellectually survivable
way, or a conceptually survivable way. But tonight's talk isn't about that, though it
will involve related issues. And if any of you want to engage me directly on matters related
to identity politics, I'd be happy to have that conversation with you. I'd be even excited.
So tonight I'm going to talk about some things that are fundamental, and I've been remembering
them over the last little while. They came up near the end of my previous video when I
started talking about something I see as a fact, but it is invisible to nearly all of us.
And it's the idea of invention. Now, if we take invention in a sort of phonemic sense
to vent inwardly, to inwardly vent, then that's a reasonable idea. But if we take it in the
sense of to authorily originate, now we have a problem, huge complex problem. Because which
one of us is actually an individual? All of our experience for nearly all of us happens
with other human beings in modern cultures. So we undergo relatively modern in-languaging
processes and in-culturation processes. And these are catalytic of our desires and affinities
and aversions and so on. And either, it seems likely, though there are a few possibilities
not to, either we are separate humans. And of course that's more complex too, because
first we are beings, then we are organisms, then we are animals, then we are humans. So
you could think of it as a cone that gets wider as you go up. And it starts at being. Now, of
course, if you take it a little further, it starts beyond being. It starts in the fundamental
essence from which all things originate. And which all things are, well, this is where I'm
going to go tonight, which all things resemble. Now, that resemblance is peculiar. From some
perspectives, it's relatively explicit, relatively. And from others, we can imagine that the context
produces forms and structures and various kinds of organisms and such, and relationships and so on.
And so here are two perspectives, and we can certainly divide them into seven or 12 if we
want. But the first is that all phenomena resemble some quality or characteristic-like
aspect of origin, essence. God, Brahman, Atman, though I'm probably confusing terms here,
I'm not an expert on Hindu terminology. For me, the being that dwells in unity,
which is my word for what people are usually pointing out with the word God, though,
everybody's pointing at something different, or at least there are many distinct ideas or images of
God. What I mean by that term is the pervading, essential awareness, consciousness, intelligence
that pervades all form and time space. And so whether or not that is intentionally productive
of forms, forms arise as a result of its nature, and I'll get into danger if I say activity,
but I'm not that frightened of those dangers. Perhaps I should be. So there are some fundamental
things I want to speak toward this evening. Perhaps I'll clear my throat off mic briefly here.
Before I get into resemblances and correspondences, I want to talk about a couple of principles.
I'm not sure if I obeyed them in the beginning of my video or not. Perhaps I did.
The first one is initial circumstances, initial selections, initial actions,
are determinative of what can thereafter develop. I've got a bit of a throg in my throat. I was
eating some very spicy food a little while ago. That produced results that I'm now experiencing.
Physicists understand that initial circumstances produce limitations in the manifold of futures,
but I want to talk about something humanly accessible here. I want to talk about something
we all experience a hundred times a day. When I saw the old cat, I approached slowly and
knelt down and made in my human way a gesture of recognition and respect. I didn't walk right up
to the cat intruding on its space. I made some choices and when I meet a human, I make similar
kinds of choices. Though I'm talking in the abstract because I'm not talking about meeting
a specific human, talking about a general thing, but I smile and make gentle eye contact
and adjust my body language and my vocal tone to signal to them that I feel communal with
them. Unless, of course, I don't have that feeling or I'm busy or distracted or something. This is
entirely natural to me. It's my natural way of being. It's not affected. The first thing we do when
we wake up in the morning sets the tone for the day. I'm not presenting this in order for us to
become judgmental about ourselves or our initial activities. Most of the time for me, I quickly
take a shower and often, right after that, I may record my dreaming memories. Thereafter,
various other things may ensue, a walk, reflection on my dreaming. Not so very long ago, I would begin
writing almost immediately because I would be filled with inspirations. These days, not so much.
Our first interactions with someone we meet or a situation, a job interview, a chance encounter,
not always with humans, could be with animals or plants. The very first exchanges of communication
between beings are profoundly charged with opportunity. There was a lot more of a frog in my
throat than I thought. What I'm trying to get at here is a good first move often leads to a much
better second move and so on. A neutral first move can kind of go either way. A poor first move
tends to devolve into relatively undesirable future situations, but it doesn't always. It's
not a law. It's a principle. When we're aware of this principle, we can take advantage of it,
and we can use it to great effect. This is a superially profound, those seemingly simple
sounding thing encoded in the cliche, well begun as half done. Not a fan of cliches,
but I wanted to show that it's in the lexicon of cliches and it's there for a reason, or rather
it's there because someone became consciously aware that initial actions, choices, presentations,
motivations, purposes are determinative of future potentials and outcomes. Funny, I can hear a bit
of a frog chorus now and it's not coming from my throat. So this principle is important to understand
that when we begin, whatever it is we may begin, even if it's something very simple, seemingly
simple like washing dishes, how we are in the situation, our approach, our orientation,
whether we are proceeding mindfully or we're half asleep or something, or we're just distracted,
or we're bored, or each of these things contribute and subtract from what is likely to ensue thereafter.
And it's particularly important to understand that as we improve our first moves, the next phase
of the dance, whatever comes after tends to improve by orders of magnitude, not in a stepwise
fashion. And this is why this principle is extremely profound and fundamental. Now I'm relating
tonight things that I was shown and taught during a non-ordinary experience that I'll not
hear or speak much about. I've spoken of it elsewhere. But these are things I learned from an
intelligence that is not human and is certainly real, though it may not be real in the ordinary sense
of the word. I just heard the loud screech of an owl. It's the sound I love. I love all the sounds
that animals make, though. I guess if I were in a jungle where I'd be overwhelmed by such sounds,
and there'd be a cacophony of living sounds, being unused to that, I might find that overwhelming,
troubling, disturbing. What was the second principle? Oh yes, the signal of recognition.
There is, in nature and being,
there is a fundamental language of a kind. I think it would probably be wiser to call it a meta
language or a proto language, which pretty much everything understands.
I learned about this when I was very small by relating with tiny creatures, snails and ants
and bees and praying mantises and spiders, plants and trees and streams, clams.
One of my first pets was a clam that I found in a stream.
There's a universal language, and there are stories about this
in religious texts and elsewhere. There are stories that the humans used to understand the
universal language, but then, and there was a secondary language that was local to particular
peoples, and then the universal language was lost, and then the tongues of the humans split into
all kinds of branches.
It is said that when yogis are deeply meditating in India,
cobras come and hang out with them, and this is part of what I mean, but not
its aside analogy. It's not the important thing.
Nature is much, much older than we think. It's common to think while life on earth is
4.3 billion years old, life on earth is about 3.7 billion years old.
Unfortunately, you have to magnify that number by the number of distinct organisms that ever
lived, and since there's about 53 trillion cell organisms in your body and perhaps
hundreds of trillions of viri, viruses, or at least 100 trillion.
A single second in your body is probably more time than 3.7 billion flat years.
It's possible, however, that even if life were brand new, it would be ancient,
because it's an expression of something vastly older than time
and profoundly intelligent, not in a conceptual way.
So,
organisms, when they come into contact, have thousands of ways of sensing the disposition of the other,
or, in case of groups, others, and some of them are very simple.
There's an old game I was taught
where there are essentially two roles, guest and host,
and there's a negotiation between guest and host that goes on when they come into contact.
It can often be helpful if it's possible, though this isn't usually helpful with humans,
it can be, and our technologies use this principle.
Where there's a signal, and the signal is repeated by the guest,
and the signal is repeated by the host, and the signal is repeated by the guest,
and then they match speed, and then they establish some kind of protocol for correcting errors,
so that if I say a simple sentence to you, you can say back to me,
if I say a simple sentence to you, and with each repetition you work to match tone and rate of
transmission, and all of these kinds of things, and then eventually there's an acknowledgement
of connection. We're connected now. Now this happens in every kind of interaction,
but it's a fundamental principle that we're not usually conscious of,
and we don't always do the explicit thing I'm discussing here. I don't go up to someone,
and they say hi, and I say hi, and they say hi, and I say hi, and they say hi, and I say hi.
We negotiate these things largely non-verbally as humans, and in most of nature it's certainly not
verbal, but many animals recognize signal repetition, and everything knows the ancient
connection language of how to negotiate connectivity with a new partner or
interactor. Now the communications game gets fairly complex, because it can become a situation where
after the initial signal negotiation phase that involves tone and repetition and attention,
and usually if we're wise we establish an error correction protocol. So in human language this
looks like repeating back what someone said pretty much verbatim as close to what they said is
possible for the repeater. Let me get this straight. Did you just say I saw a white owl
at the oak tree by the river yesterday at 430? And if the other person says yes,
now we've done something useful. Now the initial communicator, who we might think of as the host,
knows for a fact that we're paying very close attention, and that we take this not seriously,
but we take this as important. Important enough to be able to repeat back to them what they said.
We are capturing their communication in a clear and concise way, and this signals
interest, presence, awareness, the intent to communicate deeply and to receive deeply,
all these kinds of things. There's a lot of different features of this game, and again our
technologies, particularly the old technologies that involved modems, though many of our modern
technologies are quite similar. They did exactly this. There was
some high-pitched chirping going back and forth during which maximum speed of transmission,
error correction protocols, and other protocols were enacted, and then there'd be some kind of,
after that, identity negotiation. I am a host. What is your status? I am a guest. Okay, you are a guest.
What is your, what are your identification tokens?
Which we still use in nearly all of our technologies. We call them usernames and passwords.
So there's a verification of identity, there's identity validation,
and this happens in nature. All of these things are abstracted from nature,
though we're not ordinarily aware of them. So this game is fundamental. So the first thing I
discussed was, well, not the very first thing, but in this portion of the conversation, or the
my speaking, was a good first move is incredibly valuable. If we can remain aware of this, we will
benefit profoundly throughout our lives in all kinds of different ways.
And the second thing is that there's a universal language, and
one of the features of the universal language that's different from the game that I just sketched
is the fundamental principle of the colors red and blue.
It's very complex why these two colors are particularly important.
And in our human lives, we notice the humans use the color red all over the place,
but it almost always means trouble. And some people say, well, that's because our blood is red.
Yeah, sure, not untrue. But actually, we have both red and blue blood vessels.
And our blood when deprived of oxygen may turn bluish, we can become cyanotic.
But it has more fundamentally to do with the nature of light,
and what's called red shift and blue shift in astronomy.
A star departing or moving away from us will shift red and a star approaching us will shift blue.
And so in nature,
this language of approaching and departing is a fundamental aspect of all communication,
whether or not beings have eyes, they still sense approach and departure.
And red has more negative connotations and could be understood as feminine.
And blue tends to have positive connotations and can be understood as masculine.
Why I select the gender equivalencies
is a complex discussion that could make my recording too long.
I wonder if I can say something simple about it without getting into too much trouble.
Hmm.
For most organisms and particularly animals, the females are reticent, they depart.
The males are demonstrative and they approach.
You can see this demonstrated in almost every kind of animal.
It's not an explicit law. It's a principle.
But it's blatantly obvious. The female pigeon says no 60 or 70 times commonly before
either the male wears her down or she actually decides he's a reasonable mate.
And males and females know about this game, whether they want to admit it or not,
they may have other ideas and think there's not two genders, there's 70 genders or whatever it is,
they think. That's just them thinking. In point of fact, biologically, there are,
for most organisms, not all of them, fundamentally two genders and not all of those
organisms embody the genders in the same way or way that matches the paradigm I'm presenting here.
But overall, it's extremely common for the paradigm I'm presenting to be
enacted in animals. Now plants are a much more peculiar situation in which
hermaphroditic situations are far more common. Trees can have male and female flowers
and so on and so forth. However, the whole idea of gender is an overlay and it's a conceptual overlay.
And this is part of why we have the weird situation we have now is that somebody realized this.
They're like, wait a minute, this is just an overlay. Well, it's not just an overlay.
Animals that have the standard masculine equipment are physically male.
Animals that have the standard female equipment are physically female. How they enact
or embody that may differ from animal to animal and there's some modest degree of hermaphroditism
in animals too. Again, more so in plants. In bacteria, as I understand it, there are
seven different modes that could correspond to our idea of gender.
And sex among bacteria is a science fictiony thing where there can be a literal clusterfuck.
Genes are exchanged and in the gene exchange abilities are acquired and lost.
So hopefully you can see in a simple way, not in a political way,
how departure is more feminine than it is masculine and approach is more masculine than it is feminine.
And this is why I typify these two colors blue and red, red and blue this way.
Now the humans don't use blue all that much.
Or rather, our cars have red lights, but they don't usually have blue lights.
However, our police engines and things like this can have red, blue, red, blue, red, blue,
which is a very confusing signal for anything that understands red and blue.
Or they might just have flashing red. And of course the police cars are approaching
when they're flashing their lights. It's an approach, you know, announcement.
But I want you to understand red and blue, departure and approach,
as one of the most fundamental of signals that can possibly be given.
And it doesn't have to be given with color, all kinds of different ways to depart and approach.
And now I guess I'll get to the central topic that I was hoping to speak of tonight.
The resemblance of created things to what I will call
features of the origin world.
Now, it's very difficult to use language intelligently here because
I'm not certain that there's something that corresponds to what I'm calling the origin world,
but I have experience of this dimension.
I'm going to pause this for a moment.
There was a car alarm going off.
So what am I really trying to say? I'm trying to say something like
imagine that time space is encompassed
by a world or a universe or a domain, a dimension
that has qualities and features of character even though it is not physical
and it is inhabited by non-physical beings.
And we can imagine that we come from this place and I'm asking us to imagine,
I'm not asserting these things as facts.
We can imagine that we come from this place into life and we depart life into this place
or one of the layers of this place.
And in this place, there are fundamental principles
that are everywhere apparent and sensible to those beings who inhabit this place.
I'm going to talk a little bit about.
Hi.
My goal is to highlight features of the activity of humans that we're normally unconscious of.
And not just the activity of humans, but the forms of all the things we see
and particularly those things that humans make.
But this includes trees and butterflies and whales and octopuses and
raccoons and clams and praying mantises and nudibranchs and bacteria and amoebas and viruses
living places and all these things.
Though what I'm going to talk about mostly
is the things that humans make. Before I do that, I'll speak a little bit about nature and organisms
since they certainly have precedence here.
So it is as if all of the possible worlds in time space
have exemplars or are instanced here in our world as each of the different forms of organisms.
And all worlds are alike in this sense that
the organisms, if there are any and if there aren't, the geological and chemical formations
and activities and transformations, all of these resemble features of the origin world.
A naive way to say this would be there's something like trees in heaven, but they're not physical.
There's something like raccoons in time space, but they're not physical or rather
above time space so that each of the forms we see here on earth are like the faces
of features of character first of time space itself and then in a in a meta sense
of what I refer to as the origin world.
And that's a fairy tale kind of reference. It's not like there's a planet somewhere,
a world that is the origin world. I'm using it to indicate the transcendental
dimensionality and relationality of that from which all form takes
its structure, shape, character, even its activity and if we want to be utilitarian, its function
or functions.
So having said that, I'll talk a little bit about what humans do.
These houses with their doorknobs and locks and things and of course we may have to go to older
now that things are becoming electronic. We're losing some of the essential
correspondences and relationships and resemblances that have long been with us.
But things like hammers and screwdrivers and keys and locks and doorknobs and all of these things,
all of these recall fundamental features of what we might think of as polar
polar compliments. And masculine and feminine is a fundamental polar compliment.
Obviously the the round lock on the round doorknob rebuffs intruders.
It effectively causes departure by not allowing ingress. But then we put the key into the lock.
This is a very sexual metaphor. The lock releases its tumblers and now we can enter the house.
Well what is the house? The house is a womb. It's a womb-like analog.
And all of these things are analogies. They're not explicit. This is a way of seeing. It's not the
facts. And so fundamental features are rod and ring. That's masculine and feminine.
Though there's ways to mix them together that transcend the simple polarizations.
Our cars are really like animals.
Obviously for many thousands or tens of thousands of years,
animals were not just our primary transport. But when we began to become material cultures,
they also were workhorses so to speak.
Our cars are also womb-like.
The way the steering wheel presents itself to our hands is very feminine.
But its function of directing the car is more or less masculine.
Everywhere we see levers and curves, circles and half circles, spokes,
rims and hubs of wheels, faces on the cars.
Even some of the houses have very face-like qualities.
All the animals have faces. Our mothers had faces. Our wombs have presentation faces,
the buildings we make. And if you go to like a shopping center or a mall, what you're going to see
is an analogy that matches the possibilities of different womb-like universes.
You walk into a sunglass store. It's arranged a certain way. It's all sunglasses all the time.
Auto parts store, clothing store, jewelry store, restaurant. All of these things are analogous to
fundamental types of enclosing worlds.
And so the stores are in a more artifacted sense, also womb-like. You walk into the store,
you're in a completely other universe. You have transactions in that universe.
And then you leave the store and you're back in the general context of the city or wherever you
found the store. These forms resemble the possibilities of incarnation.
And instead of having a generalized incarnation in our shops, we have both general and very specific
modes. Every object we make, the pencil with its sharpened writing point, very masculine,
the paper on which it writes, receptive and feminine, the eraser that cleanses the paper
round on the back of the pencil on the opposite end, all of these things. They embody fundamental
principles that we can think of. We don't have to. We can think of as masculine and feminine.
And it's useful to do so. It's probably not useful if we make it explicit. This is not that kind of
an idea. There are similar fundamental principles in nature around structure. If you look at your
hand, you'll notice something surprising if I reveal it to you. It has one unifying body,
four working members, each with three segments. One member we could call the thinking member,
each with two segments. And a wrist that leads up scale from the hand to the body.
It's an extension of. Fascinatingly, if you look at your body, you'll see something similar.
You have one unifying body, four working members, each with three segments,
these segments end in star like appendages, hands and feet. One thinking member
with two major segments. And invisibly, something resembling a wrist that leads up scale to that
which you are an instance of. So the hand is an instance of the same structure that's in the body.
And there's numerism all throughout nature in the structure of leaves and flowers and pistols and
stamens, insects. And one of the things you see in case you don't like my bipolar analogies is
bilateral symmetry. You have creatures who have what looks like one side reflected across the
plane to the other side. And each of the sides has unique features and abilities. Notice that you
only have a heart on your left side of your body. So there is a non symmetry to, although your heart
itself can be understood in from various different ways of looking at its structure.
Top and bottom, side to side, the ventricle structure. I'm not an expert on the structure of hearts.
But you can see that the most commonly instanced principle in animals and insects is bilateral
This is a bipolar nature. It's two polarized things connected into a whole.
A unity.
So all of the things that humans make are like this. The letters, their shapes are meaningful
and they originally had specific meanings associated with the letters as well as a vast
constellation of connotations so that the Hebrew letter aleph represents an ox but the
connotation tree for that is gigantic. There's probably 50 things in that connotation tree.
The letter bait and this is where we get the word alphabet. It's from aleph bait
or beth.
That letter represents womb, home, the mother. Ox is masculine, house is feminine. The womb receives
the ox divides. Literally, you know, the key in Locke analogy. I'll use that rather than the
direct physical analogy here. So all throughout everything the humans make, every little object
they make, forks and knives and hammers, crescent wrenches, faucets, all of these things.
They all come from, they are derivative, artifacting, exemplars of features of coming and going,
red and blue, masculine and feminine, intrusion and reception.
And I don't mean intrusion in the negative sense, I just mean it in the physical sense.
Our streets, our sidewalks, our street lamps, they all have these principles.
The rod and the ring, the circle and the lever.
There are, there's a very small number of fundamental principles here,
which makes this way of seeing accessible. Now I can't go through all of the letters.
That would be, that's a topic for another time, another talk.
But their shapes are meaningful. The S certainly resembles the snake, the T certainly resembles
the tree. The M certainly resembles both mountains and the eyes of owls. The P is like the back of the head.
And not all of them are so strictly evocative of specific things.
The R fundamentally has to do with radiance, reception to transmit, though the tree is also
transmissive. But it doesn't have an appearance that implies that necessarily. Unless we think of
the R as a P with something radiating out behind it, that leg, or the little R as a rod
with part of a circle coming out of it, and that part of a circle represents radiation,
radiance and transmission.
So each of the letters has, have significance. And when we put them together, their
significances are transformed by the proximity of other letters. This is something lost on English
speakers, but familiar to Hebrew mystics and Arabic mystics, and even older cultures than these.
The vehicles, they represent something like angels.
And our smartphones, particularly, are a representation of that which connects us to all
beings in all of time space. And what is that? Well, there are no good modern traditions about this.
But we could think of it as a travel friend who is also a transcendental library
access being that is profoundly associated with our soul. If we imagine ourselves to have
something resembling a soul, and I think that's the right way to think rather than
I have a soul, there's something associated with my humaneness that is above my humaneness
transcendental to it, that is a very complex thing, not a simple one thing. Oh, that's my soul.
So our smartphones represent what I, what I could in fairy tale language call our guardian angel.
The spiritual being that connects us to the origin world, and that watches over us and guides us and
is something of a daimon in the Socratic sense rather than the process oriented sense.
A companion intelligence that is fundamentally intimate with our human lives and experience
though it is disembodied and does not exist in the material universe.
The problem here is that as the humans make objects,
their access to the origin world and their awareness of it disappears into the objects.
And so the outcome is we get the objects, but no longer we no longer get contact with the
intelligences from which they were derived. And this is the terrifying thing about
the ridiculous, contra-nim smartphone.
Everybody's absolutely compelled by their smartphone.
If they had a moments experience of what I'm referring to as their guardian angel,
they would have zero interest in any machine ever again.
What we are actually
in relation with in the most fundamental of senses
is more than the sum of machines could ever raise a light toward.
But all of this is occluded to us by our habits of thinking and relating.
And one might say, though I'm not fond of this language,
that the relations with technology and concept mess up something vibratory in us,
that when we were born was cataclysmically momentous and obvious, but as we aged beyond birth,
we sort of got drugged down a ladder into modes of vibration, so to speak,
that are dead in the sense that they're no longer in contact with their origins moment to moment.
Nor are they thus inspired by them anymore.
So this is one of the tragedies of our modern circumstance and situation.
It can be amended, but not by religion.
It is amended in our hearts when we are passionate and curious and seek our own origins
with uncompromising determination, then they will be revealed to us again.
Either we may experience enlightenment or we may experience something
some religions speak about, a second birth while we are still on earth.
And by the way, there's no reason to believe that your life is one incarnation.
We experience many incarnations in a single life, or at least it's very useful to think of it in this way.
But it's possible to be reincarnated in this lifetime and be introduced to the origin world.
And what I'm referring to is the angels and the family of origin, the transcendental family of origin,
the being who dwells in unity, living waters, the various angels which are one angel,
and have something to do with wheels and spokes and spheres.
And are the, what would I say, are the modes of intelligence
native to the being that dwells in unity?
And the living waters, the pure undifferentiated potential, which is that being's context.
And again, these are fairy tales, they're children's stories.
What's actually going on is not encompassable in ordinary language,
though it is occasionally possible to translate features of it into parables and analogies
that are immediately captivating.
So much more to say, but for now I'll sign off and wish you wisdom and wonder
and bliss and liberation and very intelligent friends. Thank you for joining me. Bye-bye for now.
