Hello everybody. Welcome.
The sun is shining right in my eyes.
The setting sun.
It's pretty glorious. I wonder what the camera will make of it.
I know the etymological origins of the word glory.
Though I have an unusual skill with understanding letters and words.
I'm thinking today about a couple of topics that are the remnants of a long conversation I had with a friend last night.
And I guess there's a connecting element underneath the conversation.
Which is the character of what's going on in a general sense, right?
What's going on on earth? What's the nature of the epoch?
What's the character of our time underneath all of the Kutramah that are modern lives and societies pile on top of life?
So what's the real essential spirit of the moment? What's the weather in between all the beings?
My friend Ryan the other day as we were speaking on the phone saw outside his window an incredibly pregnant deer.
And he was shocked because that's not supposed to happen yet.
In terms of the way we think about the progression of the phenological seasons,
meaning the relationships between plants, animals, insects, humans, living beings.
Right now there's a bumblebee circling my head because of the color of my hat.
Now that word because is highly suspect.
But surely the color of my hat has something to do with the circling.
And I have seen that the raptors, the owls and the hawks and eagles, but we don't usually have eagles where I live.
They've been unusually frisky when generally they won't mate until the next moon cycle.
But apparently some of them appear to be either getting ready very early or actually mating in this moon cycle.
And so in an echo of one interpretation of a Shakespearean line, time is out of joint.
And any of us who are sensitive at all have been aware of this for some time
and have been trying to understand it and pay attention to it.
And of course on the surface of things in the human world we have what we're referring to as the pandemic.
Of course it's not the pandemic, it's a pandemic.
And there are different kinds of pandemics and some of them probably rise and pass without the extended population
even having a chance to notice them because they do no significant harm or they resemble things like colds or flu.
So surely there are invisible pandemics but there are different kinds of pandemics as well.
There are pandemics of greed, of war, of peace, of consumerism, of environmental devastation, all kinds of different pandemics.
There are pandemics of birth and death.
There are pandemics of weather of a certain kind.
And some of these things become endemic, they become sort of constant features of our day-to-day lives.
And there are a lot of features of the changes that have been coming for quite some time
but maybe have only emerged into relatively severe examples somewhat recently.
Many people have been aware for 20, 30, 40 years that our human societies and their catastrophic reliance on the production of objects
and the dissemination of objects and the creation of toxins and trash and heat are destroying the basis of the environment.
The fundamental aspects of the environment.
So many of us have been aware for a long time of these things and yet nonetheless
something has fundamentally shifted in a foundational way over say the last five years.
And a number of my friends have reported a peculiar problem that precedes the pandemic significantly and I am aware of the problem myself.
A sudden feeling of loss of the fundamental sense of purpose
and a deep and abiding concern about what this pandemic is.
What this could mean and what the source of it is.
Now of course it's important to remember that there are billions of humans and everyone's having a unique experience of being alive in this time.
And not everyone is experiencing the same thing but many of the more sensitive people that I know and many of the more dynamic people that I know.
And perhaps also some of the more delicate in some ways people that I know.
They are reporting the same thing and they have been for quite some time.
Long before you know 2020.
This felt sense of a terrible loss of the fundamental light inside our sense of time and being
from which we derive our sense of purposiveness.
That there's a reason, that's the wrong word, that there's an urgency deep within us that draws us into daily life and planning for the future
and responding to the situations at hand and creativity and self-expression, self-development and so on.
And this is a very deep shockwave almost as if there's been an earthquake and it rumbled for a while and then great stillness.
And one of my friends remarked in late 2018 he said a very sober kind of guy.
He said when I asked him you know what happened in such he said well I had a sense of impending doom and then suddenly I could no longer feel the future
and I asked him you know sometime later well did it ever come back and he said no no it didn't.
And of course we do have a sense that feels the past and the future we don't have a word for this sense.
There is the German word Zeitgeist which means approximately time spirit or spirit of the time.
But we have faculties that sense these things we just don't have language and we don't talk about them together.
So if there were a sudden disturbance in the underlying nature the felt sense of human purposiveness and time
if there were a sudden shockwave or a change there how would we know since we don't discuss such things together.
We would not know.
And even if someone tried to explain it to us it's not part of our common vocabulary of sensing.
So we might think oh well this is a uniquely sensitive person they're just having their own you know sensitive experience.
It doesn't take much sensitivity to notice that.
A moment ago when I was talking about the raptors being very frisky and flamboyant this is what I'm talking about.
Yeah.
Now I have very few I have a tiny tiny audience for my videos maybe 10 or 15 people at most and a few stragglers.
So nearly no one will hear my reflections on on these topics at least not today or soon.
The initial sense of this loss in my friends and myself was so shocking that some of us thought oh I'm going to die.
I can't live like this without without that inner motivation and light that comes from the subtle sense and connection with purpose of existence.
It was as if a star inside us that had never not been shining suddenly completely disappeared.
You know certainly we've experienced little eclipses and things but nothing like this.
And so for many of us it is a devastating experience and we have no one to talk about it with and no vocabulary to speak about it with.
It's unfamiliar to us we've never experienced it before.
People who have experienced great depression may may have some familiarity with this problem where one wakes up and from sleep at night and there's no no desire to do anything.
One does not want to eat or do one's daily routine or work or anything and many of us have heard that varying country by country place by place time by time.
There are huge populations of people who quote do not wish to return to work unquote.
What could such a thing mean it seems impossible everybody pretty much works right.
And there are a lot of health problems that aren't related directly to the pandemic.
Psychological health problems emotional health problems relational health problems financial problems that millions of people are suddenly facing.
And we think that humans communicate primarily by with a web work of known sources of verbal and visual information.
And we think that's the primary layer of the network that connects all humans.
It's not.
There's a subtle layer that I call the Cognition.
This is like the mind of the species at the moment.
An anciently evolved network with many unique faculties and potentials and capabilities that the Internet is sort of a wrapping paper version of.
The Cognition for the humans and there is the bio Cognition is the Cognition of all life on Earth to which from which the human Cognition emerges.
The human Cognition has undergone a staggering cascade of transformations over the past 20 years.
And of course it's always transforming.
But the specific character of the transformations we are in now is extremely troubling and grim.
And part of it is a result of the attempt to replace the subtle network with a physical network that we call the Internet.
Or at least that's a causal factor in what's going on.
So a friend of mine and I were speaking last night about these problems.
What do we do when I can't feel any purpose and my motivation has disappeared.
And we talked about the meaning of the word motivation.
And I posed it as an opposite to gravity.
Or to the kind of low hanging fruit of superficial rewards or gratifications.
And we also talked about various other features of this situation some of which I may get to touch on in the video.
But the difference between something deep and richly developed in say a relationship and immediate gratification.
This pair they are preparing to mate and may have already been mating.
Interesting synchronicity there.
So when our motivation disappears and we are lost and we are directionless and our inner compass doesn't work and doesn't lead us anywhere familiar doesn't really point anywhere we hold the compass and can't find north or south right the most intense signal or the least intense signal we can't find our way.
Then we are inclined to become hungry for some kind of stimulation and so we become more vulnerable to problems problematic behavior addictions superficial gratification.
Drugs all of what we would encompass with the with the idea of vices gambling financial gain addiction overeating lethargy binging on things.
We don't want to step forth or it's not that we don't want to the inward felt sense that draws us into life that draws us into development and seeking is missing.
So what we want is anything else we can get that sort of resembles that even for a moment or kind of puts us to sleep and comforts us so that we can wait you know we can await the hopeful reawakening of purpose of senses and motivation.
And so what I mean by gravity is that other kinds of gratifications acquire gravity in this time and these can be ideological gratification so I know what the problem is it's those people over there.
And these people over here and I know what's wrong with how they think and you know the whole sort of low grade disease of modern cultural blah blah blah right which includes arguments about the virus and science and medicine and vaccines and mandates and all these things.
Shattering the people apart right close friends won't speak to each other because one of them is vaccinated and the other one isn't.
I've heard people say terrifying things emotionally terrifying things that are definitely wrong.
About such stuff. Oh I hope this person hope this happens to them this terrible thing happens to them because.
Either they are vaccinated or not vaccinated.
Look something terrible is happening to all of us.
And at the same time something beautiful is happening to all of us.
If we can learn together.
To turn.
Our senses.
So that we sense what is subtle.
Rather than what has long been overt.
There's the analogy of.
Day and night.
By day.
We look at things and know pretty much immediately what they are even though there's some pareidolia involved even in daytime.
Visual sensing.
If I see a little shadow off to the side I may immediately think oh that's a person and then find out no it's a piece of fabric flapping in the wind.
Pareidolia is the sense that precedes the distinct sensing.
It's it's vague and transforming but in the daytime.
Outside in the sunlight when it's bright.
Identity is fairly relatively declared by by the nature of the light in our visual senses presuming that we are sighted people.
So I know that's a tree that's a log that's a rock this is a fork that is my beloved.
This is the sun that is the sky.
This is bark grass sage plant.
Artemisia and so on.
And along with the relatively clear declaration of identity comes the relatively clear derivation both of purpose and avoidance right what should I stay away from what should I go toward.
It's easy to go toward what we can clearly discern in the daytime.
It's easy to go away from threats we can clearly discern in the daytime mostly.
But at night time something very different happens and the dimension of color.
Look at all those colors.
The dimension of color largely disappears especially if it's quite dark.
And now things are much more vague.
Identity is suggested rather than declared.
The colors toned down to shades of gray and black.
And so sensing at night is a very different experience and these two polarities of visual sensing resemble something that's happening inside us.
With waking mind and dreaming mind and sleep.
So at nightfall one way to think about what's been going on is the sun has been setting the purpose of sun has been setting inside our people.
And we are not used to darkness in the inward essential sense of purposiveness.
So we're all very frightened and we don't know what to do.
In my house if it's very dark sometimes I don't turn on the lights.
And I can find most of the things in my house without turning on the lights because I'm very familiar with the inside of my house.
So I could find my reading glasses even though that would be a strange thing to do in the dark.
So one of the things I am suggesting is that we recognize that there's been a nightfall and it's progressing.
It's not just dark for many people in their inward experience of purpose in the future.
It may be black just completely without any sort of any other just the most the most primordial simple motivations.
I will eat food or I will watch the show or you know.
And as we struggle in the current situation as mysterious and profound as it is and as different as it is for different people and age groups.
It's helpful to at least have some way of talking about it together and to talk about it together.
If you're having a sudden lack of feeling of purpose or motivation let's talk about this together with people that we trust and love.
Not so that we can be diagnosed though some of us that might be a reasonable outcome for some of us.
But no so that we can share together and try to understand hey are you having a problem like this too?
Do you feel something like this too?
How is it for you to be feeling this this kind of thing?
Excuse me at this time.
How is it for your mother?
How is it for your brother or sister?
How is it for your neighbor?
We can share and help each other to learn what is happening or to learn more about what is happening and how we might respond together and support each other in what is happening.
Often if we lose purpose locally we might try to acquire it through another.
So we might become very concerned or interested in or ready to pursue a love relationship for example.
And we might think well if I just had a love relationship that would help me be motivated.
It's not entirely confused but first we should recognize the inward situation and become very intimate with the inward situation.
In our hearts, in our essence, in our humanity, in our animal nature, in our cognition, in our creativity, in our daily routines.
When things are changing it is wise to seek intimacy with the change.
If we simply resist it, it's not always only bad but we will not become more sensitive.
And we may likely end up kind of falling asleep or into a trance like state within the situation which can be very dangerous in a time of great challenge or trouble.
And surely our time is such a time.
In the darkest moments we need the very best of ourselves and this is often conflict.
Because in the darkest moments what we would like, many of us some of the time, is to just stand back and let the disaster happen.
Wait for it to be over with.
But this is a time when we may feel there are other aspects of purpose, behavior and sensing.
And some of those are catalyzed by trouble and darkness.
So that in the trouble and darkness, if we are sensitive and aware, new branches on the tree of purpose are sprouting.
And these are branches that may involve mutual care and concern, mutual care taking, mutual awareness.
Moving beyond the self into the community, however small or vast we may experience it as being.
And being gentle and kind to one another into ourselves.
And stepping down from the judgment and outrage and hullabaloo of the news and social media and things that actually are very trivial and meaningless in most of their expressions.
Now of course, you know, for some of us finding a lover or a companion during this time could be very powerful and comforting.
I'm not saying what we should or should not do, but we should, I think it would be helpful to be aware that some of that longing that we may feel for closeness with a companion
is the result of having lost intimacy with ourselves, because part of how we are intimate with ourselves is through motivation and purpose.
Now the idea of gravity comes from a word meaning filled with eggs, like fertile.
But it also has something to do with memory, now gravity.
And in a sense gravity is a concretion, it's a consequence of concretions, right, like the moon and the earth.
And motivation is kind of, you can pose motivation as one of the polarities in the continuum of gravity and motivation.
We work against gravity to stand up, right, we are motivated to rise, or at least it can be thought of in this way.
I'm not trying to say what is true, but the analogy is interesting.
When we lose motivation, the gravity of immediate gratifications emerges powerfully to our awareness.
I mean, we may respond to that.
Also, if we are losing a sense, it is helpful to have another with us who can sense, so that we can share senses.
We forget that our minds are different things when we are alone than they are when we are deeply together with others in meaningful ways and roles.
Our minds and bodies transform, they actually change state.
So in a real way, I am not the same thing when I am with my friend, and we are talking or relating deeply with one another,
or I am with my lover and we are relating deeply with one another.
Of course, one of my lovers is the living world and all of the living beings.
That's my main lover.
So I change when I enter the garden, and the old conversation is renewed.
It's important to understand that our limitations can disappear or transform.
When we forge a deep bond with another, even momentarily, think of the last time the smile of a stranger lit your heart,
or the last time both your hearts lit up when you passed someone on the street and just smiled meaningfully and deeply to one another for a moment,
without speaking anything.
No words required.
Think about how powerful that transformation is, even though it may be momentary.
We are used to a sort of a continuous sense of motivation when the continuous sense departs, the momentary sense becomes very valuable.
So even things that we can do to produce a momentary spark can be precious.
Now, I'll probably talk in a coming video of the next topic, but it's somewhat related.
It is that in our modern societies, we've largely inverted the virtues of chastity, generosity, kindness, temperance, sobriety.
Attending that which is important, deep purpose of practice, leaving aside the superficial and immediate gratifications,
honesty, integrity, respect, love, intelligence, insight, creativity,
all these virtues.
Some of them are still alive in us and our people,
but by and large, at the population level, we succame to the low-hanging fruit of immediate gratification or entrancment or distraction, consumption.
And when we do this, we're injuring our faculties, because we have many faculties, hundreds of them, that only develop in the context of virtue.
And so, for example, young people or sometimes older people may meet and there's a spark between them, so they immediately have sex.
And that's very compelling experience, very powerful, overwhelming, cuts right through, you know, everything else in a way.
But there are couples who meet and they have the same intensity and the same spark of mutual interest and fascination,
but not only do they not have sex, they don't touch.
And they may meet every day and this could go on for a year or more and they don't go for the low-hanging fruit of, you know, immediate gratification.
And in a context like this, new faculties develop and depths of bonds, forms of bonds and depths of those forms develop that are otherwise not only unimaginable but impossible.
So I encourage my listeners to consider these matters and understand that the idea of fasting, which is a very profound practice,
can be employed in various domains of our lives to build a certain kind of intelligent resistance to immediate gratification.
And this will almost always be rewarding because it will allow the development of feelings, faculties and abilities that otherwise languish or never sprout, right?
They just remain in the seed form within us.
Perhaps I will speak more of that in a future video.
Thank you for joining me.
May your path be beautiful and blessed.
Goodbye for now.
There's the sunset glory.
