Hello everybody. Welcome.
More and more recently, I've heard people close to me and friends and others
often in a moment of uncharacteristic emotionality and depth of feeling
say five words to me.
I want to go home.
And we moderns are, the vast majority of us, homelessly and homed.
We may for the moment have a place to stay for you and a place to live in.
But for most of us, it isn't our home.
Yet this is not what these people meant, at least not primarily
when with deep and tragic emotion said, I want to go home.
In the way that a child might, meaning not necessarily the box we live in,
but the way we are together.
I want to go back to the way we are together, where we are together.
In that way that makes it home.
Very simple language.
In the child's heart, it's not a matter of concepts or categories.
It's a matter of the recognition of this is the good place together.
With my mom and dad, my brother and sister, my friends.
But in each of the people who've said this and I certainly feel the same way.
They mean something like, I want to go back before everything was in separate bodies and pieces and boxes and tokens and so on.
I want to go to the origin home of everything.
I want to go to the origin home of everything.
Though we might not usually think of it this way, if we look carefully, we will see that
the feelings and dreams and visions and memories and tragedies and hopes and fears and anxieties
that for each of us are woven into the meaning of home when we think about it in a deep way.
And when we're feeling it.
What we mean when we say home in this way is partly the place we live, but it's partly something much deeper.
And that pointer, home, is woven into every other idea we have
because it's one of the most fundamental roots of how we're in the world and how we are in our hearts and how we are in relationships.
Nightingale?
No, maybe a mockingbird.
And so, everything is redolent of home.
Our affinities and disaffinities, hopes and desires, life paths, locations, all of these things we are in a way
making both physical and relational or behavioral homes in our modern cultures.
And most of us moderns, even if we own homes, which is a small percentage, for sure,
many of those people are still homeless, effectively.
They cleave to the boxes or the land or the accoutrement of the car or the grocery store, all these things.
As if in a lifeboat of dead space.
When I look at the night skies I am now,
I feel as if I am truly home, there, but not here.
Here I am far away, here I am like most of us, lost and confused, alone.
And where, indeed, is my home?
Is it even possible for me to go home?
There is a deep, abiding ache in us to be reunited.
To travel a path toward the truth of our nature as beings and humans and animals and representational minds and so on.
To remember our origin.
And home has this connotation, to remember our origin.
And so it's one of the most primordial and powerful of the little ring of concepts underneath our minds that are all ordinary concepts like friend, dream, food, eye, hand, star, planet, animal, planet.
These roots and whether or not they are diverse and rich in their associations and connotations or explicit having either one or a few associations or connotations.
This is the difference between the possibility of being intelligent as a human being and what most of us will experience, which more closely resembles a kind of slavery or blindness.
The root concepts like home, when they become mere representations, we've lost something precious, we've become blind to it.
Or incapable of putting, of making it together.
You know, I was thinking earlier that when people are authentically together, there's not such a big concern about making boxes or where is home.
We become home together in celebration and pursuit of mutual fulfillment and learning, success, transformation.
So when we're together, authentically, home is there.
But when we're apart, and we can be apart in many ways at the same time, more ways can be added to how we are apart, always.
Then the ache for home is deeply felt.
I want to go home.
Of course, when we're apart then we have to defend the little boxes and essentially it's an invisible war, right?
The enemy is the history and future of life on earth.
The goal is to convert all that living ecologies and animals and minds and so on into little packets of ketchup and diamond rings and jet airplanes and doorbells.
So there's an ongoing war that the humans prosecute in order to, what?
Survive as individuals, quote-unquote.
And then a kind of competition ensues to accelerate and amplify the war and its features.
And thus produce new products and technologies and so on.
So in this case, home becomes a prison.
And a good home is effectively a luxurious prison.
Which then must be defended and repaired and paid on and so forth.
Very confusing state of affairs for us moderns.
So we, you know, many of us rent homes.
And thus, although we have a home, meaning a place to live, we don't have a home, meaning where we are together in the way that remembers our origin and our nature and our most deeply held convictions.
Not convictions.
The urgencies of our souls.
The truest and most trustworthy urgencies of our souls.
It's funny, we're all right together.
I'm walking on a sidewalk within a hundred feet of lots of unboxed humans.
With yards and fences and dogs and cats and cars and televisions.
But I'm apart from them.
I am other to them.
So in a culture where there is no real community, just its representations in commerce and so on.
Or there's a very, let's call it a very thin layer of community and a lot of representations.
Then home is safe within my box with my gun.
It's my little parcel to defend.
From one perspective, from a common perspective, let's say.
We extend our bodies in our homes where we live, where we sleep.
There are a variety of what I'll call faculties. This is one of the words I like. Maybe I overuse it.
That project our identity and our body into the physical space that we are inhabiting.
This happens when we're outside too, but outside is so big that there's sort of a continuum from local physical to vast atmospheric to space time.
So we don't merely identify with our homes.
They become like second bodies, like extended bodies for us.
And so all kinds of trouble ensues.
Having confused our bodies with our homes or our cars, same thing happens in a car. It's just more active in the home. It's more passive.
But we learn to extend our physical senses to the frame of the car so that we can navigate successfully.
And that's a very clinical way of talking about a much broader phenomenon where we physically identify with the mass and the body and the shape, the size of the car and how it handles and so on.
We don't ask any race car driver about this and they'll say absolutely, but every person's like this. It's part of how we successfully drive.
And to a limited degree with bicycles, to a larger degree with motorcycles, there are all these artifacts we've made that we come to identify with in different ways.
To identify with, I mean confuse ourselves with them.
To have an unwanted person in one's house is a peculiar kind of felt violation.
More than partly for this reason. Wait, what does more than partly mean? More than modestly for this reason.
Our homes have the same connotation as origin.
So our relationship with them becomes a way of enacting our relationship with memory and family and time and place and beauty.
Or, you know, whatever it becomes, you can find a billion different examples of what happens when people, what they do with their homes.
From the terrifying to the austere to the exquisitely luxurious and so on.
Sometimes the interior of the home is more an expression of a problem in the mind or body or relationships.
And so there's also the feelings about having a presentation space or face with which you meet the world if you bring people into your home.
It's a very elaborate and meaningful pointer, this one word, home.
Thank you for joining me. I look forward to learning again together sometime very soon.
Bye bye for now.
