Hey everybody, as usual since when I make my videos I'm speaking extempore, I'm
improvising, I don't usually have an outline or list, I'm just going through
what is in my mind and what I'm concerned about and thinking about. So
because I do it that way I often miss a few things during the video that I
wanted to include. So I'm just creating this video as an afterward to my
previous video. Thank you to everyone who may have watched that. The topic of
course was UAPs, UFOs, the current situational context here in the United
States. Not a lot of the history for the history. You can go to the video and
there's a link to my long medium essay on history of the phenomenon and other
people have covered that far more deeply and profoundly than I have. So what I
wanted to talk about that didn't get into the last video are primarily two
things. The first thing is in nearly all of our religions, certainly in the
Hindu religion and many others, there's this concept of wars between gods. That's
a pretty strange idea. Humans know what war is. It's unclear that gods would be
fighting wars and if they were actually gods, why would we know how would
humans possibly know that the gods are fighting wars? So this concept makes it
fairly clear that something was engaged in warfare that ancient peoples
actually saw. And for that to happen, we are not talking about fundamentally divine
beings. We're not talking about non-corporeal intelligences. We're not
talking about spirit beings. We're talking about beings that may be
parbiological, partly biological, or that have invested their essence either
momentarily or temporarily in some kind of a form that probably isn't a form
that evolves on planets. It's more than likely an engineered form that can
accept the consciousness, awareness, spirit, or soul of a non-human
intelligence. So there are hundreds of stories, if not thousands, of the
gods fighting wars that the humans witnessed. So that looks like technology
and that looks like beings that are corporeal and probably aren't gods. If
we imagine, if we go from organism up the ladder, you can go organism,
non-corporeal intelligence, which may include what we think of as aliens. Up
from that, you have something like carabin and then angels and then God. God
being the being that dwells in unity. And it's not necessarily clear that even at
the scale of actual God that there's just one or even just one universe or
anything like that. So it seems clear that non-human intelligences were fighting
technological battles on earth in prehistory. There's nothing about this in
archaeology. There's nothing about this in science. So there's no chance of
either of those disciplines suddenly revealing this. You might get what
people would think of as rogue scientists or rogue archaeologists who would
attempt to introduce the topic to our ideation, thought, and lexipods. But very
few people are going to do that because if they're academics at all, they
depend on funding. And if you depend on funding, you have to toe the common
shared ontological and epistemological line. So it looks like many of our
religions probably come from relation with non-human intelligences that are
not necessarily divine. They may seem like gods to ancient people because they
come from the sky and ordinarily anything that comes from the sky is
understood to be divine. Also, it's not clear that many of our ancient
cultures have the idea of planets, though some of them may have. Certainly like
the Dogon people, they claim that beings from, I think, Sirius came to them and
talked about their star system and gave them information about the star system
that later astronomers validated. So yeah, there were clearly wars. Why would
they be fought on earth? I mean, you got the whole universe to deal with or at
least the galaxy. What's interesting enough about earth to turn this into a
battleground? It's a very confusing idea. I'm sure there are some explanations in
ancient texts and so on. As I understand it, there are at least thousands and
maybe hundreds of thousands of cuneiform tablets that tell stories like this.
There's probably ancient Sanskrit texts and so on. Even the Vedas have stories
about wars between gods. So what are those gods? They're not what we think of
when we, as for example religious people, consider or reflect upon the nature of
that which is divine. Our stories are very strange. They appear to be remnants of
other stories in many cases. So this draws deeply into question the nature of
human religion as we understand it in our time. So that's one of the features
that I wanted to talk briefly about. The other is the problem of institutionalization
of narratives. So when human cultures begin to modify their lexicon, the principles and
concepts that their ontologies are comprised of and their epistemologies,
there's a process that resembles digestion and it also resembles the
telephone game, where slowly over time, and I think Diana Walsh-Pasulka spoke
very cogently about this process. If I remember correctly, when she was
talking about the possibility of something resembling disclosure from the
United States government, I think she said that really it's going to be more
of a process of the institutionalization of a set of narratives. And what happens in
that process is that experiences and reports and people's ideation about
them filter down and they get digested by the institutional structure of society
and academia and so forth. And what is produced is basically a product, which is an amalgam
of the experiences it comes from, but also a careful curation of the associated ideas,
events, narratives, and so on. So that gets carefully curated and what is produced is
something that we could think of as a canonical version, the written in stone
part. Unfortunately, us moderns are extremely adept at this game and ancient
peoples were very, particularly indigenous peoples, were very aware of the
dangers of this. What they didn't want to do was produce a canonical derivative.
What they wanted to do was introduce the principles, surround that with enough
sort of liberty and the possibility of determining values and identities and
relationships in real time in actual enacting of relation and participation in
relationships. So they were, this is part of the reason why many indigenous cultures
produced very little sacred ceremonial art. Yes, there are plenty of exceptions to this,
but I'm speaking particularly of like the sand paintings of the Navajo. These are
destroyed after the ceremony, they're not preserved. And they are examples of
traditional knowledge and something that is passed down through transmission from
person to person or society to individuals. By society, I don't mean our kind of
society, I mean ceremonial specialized ceremonial cohorts. So part of what's
going to probably happen now is the institutionalization of narratives and
that's going to exclude most of the vast portion of the important information,
data, ideas, narratives and so forth. That will be digested by the government, our society,
the various factions in our culture. And in case it isn't obvious, right now the American culture
is shattering and that process is being curated and influenced by foreign actors,
our own government, in a very deep way primarily through social media.
That whole mess is incredibly dangerous. You can see that the social coherence of our society
is shattering into little violent, violently opinionated groups. And that's the kind of thing
that presages the end of a nation or civilization. I also, so what we're going to see is probably
the institutionalization of these narratives and I credit Diana Walsh Pusuka for bringing this more
clearly to my attention. It's something that I'm familiar with myself and have seen and understood
for a long time, but her particular articulations of this certainly influenced my discussion here now.
Institutionalization, actually, oh yeah. There's one other thing that I want to touch on
just before I wrap up here and that is, and I've spoken of this in previous videos, I believe,
I suspect that there are a series of events in the near-term future that are sending shock waves
backward in time and those events are most likely to be catastrophic and I'm very concerned about
this. This began to become clear to me around the end of 2018 when I sort of had an interior
sense that something's gone terribly wrong. Yeah, that could totally just be local to me,
my life, my history, my future, so forth. Unfortunately though, so many people that I know
have validated that they too had this sense of impending disaster, doom, changes in their bodies,
changes in their sleep cycles, dreaming problems, health problems, and so forth. This is obviously
long before COVID and I don't think that COVID is that event, but it could turn out to be involved.
We've certainly altered the future of our species and the development of that virus
by the introduction of vaccines. I'm not an anti-vaxxer, we've used vaccine technology
for a long time and it's saved millions of lives. There are questions, I think, however, about this
particular vaccine and the fact that it utilizes, I believe it's mitochondrial RNA, mRNA, to produce
the spike proteins that educate our immune system. As I understand it, and I may be wrong about this,
that technology has been tested, but not on such a broad scale. It doesn't seem to me that the vaccines
were properly tested in terms of having the long-term testing before, like the more people who are
going to be exposed to medical technology, the deeper the testing we have to do is. What we did
here was we have an emergency, so the house is on fire, so we inhibit the protocols that we would
normally apply to such medical technologies, especially for extremely broad term application.
But yes, I think we're in a series of crises. Obviously, the humans have to stop treating
each other and our planet as a competition game of who's going to win. That's going to lead to end
game scenarios relatively rapidly now due to the advances in technology that we have made over the
past, particularly 50 and specifically 20 years. And I will speak more cogently about this matter
in future videos. So just that's my afterward for today. Thanks for tuning in. Much appreciation,
all of you. Have a better one.
