I don't want to set the world on fire, I just want to start a flame in your heart.
So I'm going to recapitulate some of the previous conversation, if that's okay.
I was reading in a book, Love Relations, about transference and countertransference in psychotherapy, particularly erotic transference and countertransference, which we can imagine as sexual projections onto the therapist and the client and vice versa, onto the client from the therapist.
And it occurred to me that in any group, including a group of two people, the resistance to collapsing the relational manifold towards sexual eros can and often does preserve a variety of options for deeper intimacy and knowing and presence with one another.
And might collapse into sexual eros, if not preserved.
And this is particularly true in a group, an uncoupled person, particularly if they tend to have many attractive features to possible erotic partners presents a much vaster possibility space for intimacy and relation in many ways than a person who is known to be seeking coupling.
one who is already coupled or one who has developed fascination with a particular member or series of members in the group.
And I found this very astonishing.
And I found this very astonishing.
I've been aware of this in some conscious ways over time.
It occurred to me a long time ago that there are broad.
broad.
There's a broad garden of modes of eros that are incredibly profound and may even have their own forms of orgasm, which are not necessarily the result of rubbing flowers together or even having genital orgasms.
And this is a very provocative and largely unvisited topic in modernity.
And this led to a variety of other insights that perhaps I will get to.
And then we were talking also about how transgender is and non identification with gender could be exemplars of this goal or motivation.
Preserving the entire possibility space rather than collapsing it to some, for example, stereotypical mode.
Um, and then, uh, you brought up thoughts about situations in which, for example, males were castrated or castrated themselves.
Um, and so we were just kind of exploring this topic in a thing in a way that I think is quite profound.
So recently someone I know was reached out to by what I consider to be a fairly nefarious group.
This would be the group of people in the military industrial intelligence complex who are interested in replicating the technologies associated with UFOs.
Um, and also various other quantum based technologies.
And I think this is extremely dangerous.
Um, what occurred to me in regards to that was that opportunism in the sense of, for example, me, myself, I would love to have new opportunities for collaboration with intelligent others.
Notoriety could also be very attractive, um, connecting with famous people, powerful people, wealthy people.
Um, and these could produce a situation in which something extremely bad and unexpected happens.
Um, I could open the door for the bad people into the sanctum where they're just gonna, you know, run rampant.
Um, and this is part of why I have neglect, you know, I've, I've consciously avoided talking a lot about toy maker.
Um, because it seems that that topic is both very dangerous and sacred incense and not for public consumption.
Um, but yeah, I was just, I was marveling at the noticing.
It never really occurred to me before that the possibility space for intimacy, when it becomes focused towards sexual eros.
Uh, it collapses in a way that reminds me of the strange collapse of consciousness that occurs at the end of dreaming.
Um, because in dreaming the manifold of relational, um, branches is both fluid and maintained.
Um, and once it starts collapsing toward quote, one thing, unquote, I'm laughing because of the, uh, metaphoric analogy to the penis and how, when guys get a heart on there really, you know, we even have this metaphor, right?
They have, he's got a heart on four X.
Um, yeah, I mean, it's, uh, the possibility space of their intelligence and relational, um, um, um, diversity very quickly becomes limited.
So, yeah, these are just some of the thoughts I've been having, there are more, but, um, I'm very surprised that I have a, that I haven't been more clear about this previously.
And it was very helpful for me to read the extremely, uh, uh, vocation specific language of a psychotherapist exploring transference and counter transference in specific instances of client relations.
Because it was that that seeded my insight mind with this awareness that I have been aware of before.
It's also perhaps true or, um, common that, um, unfulfilled heroes can drive.
Right.
Eros, uh, sustained, but not, um, consummated can produce branches of intimacy that are very profound and staggering in their death.
Uh, the topic is wildly rich and deep.
Um, he talks, the author of love relations talks about, um, both genders, different gender pairings that can happen.
Um, repressed homosexuality and male therapists repressed, uh, lesbian sexuality repressed homosexuality and female therapists in their clients and all of these things.
Um, and he, um, he says in one spot that this effectively implies that the psyche is naturally bisexual, but the conscious mind has all kinds of bulwarks of defense and, um, transference projection and counter transference projection around these issues.
Because for many of us, uh, we do not, we will consciously severely resist, um, the implication that we might be bisexual or, you know, homosexual.
Uh, this is particularly trenchant in straight males, perhaps not quite as trenchant in straight females, but also similarly.
Um, and this is something I have noticed about myself.
Uh, there is, yeah, I find it very troubling because consciously the concept of having a sexual relationship with a man is abhorrent.
I recoil from it consciously yet.
I am aware that my psyche is not so divided.
Right.
So, yeah, I'd be interested to hear any of your thoughts on these matters or even a recapitulation of features of the conversation that happened before we start recording.
Yeah.
Well, I think William S Burroughs described homosexuality in terms of desiring to be the other person.
So do you agree with that premise and how do you understand the relationship between transference and love?
Is there a connection there?
Whew.
So reading this, it becomes very difficult to understand apparently what, what he is implying here.
So the first thing, let me just finish the first sentence.
Now it's very difficult to understand what is meant by love, because how can you abstract or derive it from the cloud of transference, counter-transference, Oedipal and counter-Oedipal forces in the psyche?
Presuming that, you know, the Oedipal models of sexuality from primarily, I guess, from Freud are in fact common, reasonable tools, like making all those presumptions, which we can presume also that that's not the beginning and end of the story.
We can both admit Oedipal models and also reserve a space beyond and outside them.
But yeah, it becomes very difficult because essentially what the, the, the, the, the therapist who wrote Love Relations, which is just a book I found on the street one day, long time ago.
Um, and I was reading it randomly.
It was just sitting there.
I was like, eh, I think I'll pick this up and open up a page.
Right.
Uh, but the author seems to imply something like, um, real fulfilling intimacy and love are the result of having surfaced and become aware of the Oedipal features, histories, um, structure of the psyche.
The structure of the psyche and the sexual psyche, having brought these things into consciousness over time, gently, slowly process them, um, kind of dissolved them, or at least dissolve them to the degree that they are no longer primarily psychopathological.
In other words, we will not simply be trapped in replaying, um, structures of the Oedipal anatomy of the psyche of an individual.
Right.
Okay.
So that real true fulfilling, natural, healthy, so forth relations, uh, involve us being freed from the gravity of the psychical Oedipality that otherwise tends to pervade.
Does that make any sense?
Yeah.
Okay.
Yeah.
Okay.
Um, so that, so that actual love is healthy, well-rounded, developmentally fulfilling, transformative, um, healing, playful, creative.
Um, it's, it's not bound up in the replication of Oedipal or counter Oedipal transference, um, which otherwise tends to pervade transference or even, uh, just, uh, reenactments.
Right.
Right.
It's like my mother was distant, aggressive, um, sexually, uh, repressed.
Right.
So I might seek as a woman, a man with whom I can act out those features of my mom, or, um,
I might, uh, reenact some features that produce the appearance of my mother's, um, psychical such, you know, situation in relation to my father who was cold toward her, but wildly flagrant with women who weren't my mother.
Right.
And, and this is just a really dumb simplified example for the sake of, you know, illustrating the point.
Um, so yeah, we're, we're inclined to play out projections or those, I might not even be the right word.
Reenactments, um, re re embodiments of relational structures that are familiar to us or which we found troubling in our parents and in other adults with whom we were bonded.
And in fact, also perhaps in our peers who we witnessed, um, and who were impactful on our psyche and our sexual psyche in some way.
Uh, so.
Right.
Right.
Right.
Right.
Right.
Right.
It's a, it's a fucking minefield because the chances of an individual, um, escaping the, the, like, uh, constellation of gravitic black holes in the psyche around gender and sex and sexuality and, um, roles in relation, you know, romantic or erotic relationships.
It's basically got going to happen.
Right.
There are people who are, who kind of naturally are well adjusted.
And so their relationship with these features is not quite so pathological, but without help, without something that resembles analysis or therapy, that doesn't have to happen with an analyst.
Could happen with a friend or, um, an elder, uh, in our modernity, it's unlikely to, because very few friends or elders are insightful enough to lead us through that terrain and to resist transference and counter transference.
Uh, so, yeah, um, it's very complicated.
What is love?
If not the reenactment of para or Neo Oedipal stuff.
Well, is the, is the, is the point of reenactment to liberate oneself from something?
Is it a matter of freedom or.
I wish it were.
No, usually it's quite the opposite.
It is too.
Um, so this goes back to another series of insights I had where we will tend to enact roles that are familiar to us because quote, we know how they work, unquote.
Um, and because we know how they work, that reduces the necessity of vigilance over negative and positive ambiguity.
And it, and that's a crucial feature of human behavior.
Anything that reduces vigilance is generally.
Tropic, right?
We, we go toward it.
Um, also, we don't know how being human and improvising works though.
We, we may experiment with that.
Um, yeah, we don't know how that works.
Uh, we don't know whether we'll get a reward or what kind or whether we'll be punished or what kind.
And often, you know, we think like, oh, people like rewards.
No, people like punishment too.
Um, the punishment is a payoff, just like a reward is a payoff, just a different kind of payoff.
Um, so, uh, you can see the complexity here is thick and deceptive.
Um, in an actually healthy relationship, improvisation play, um, the freedom to not engage in familiar, uh, role behavior.
Um, that's what's liberating.
Right.
And essentially in Zen and other spiritual traditions, the whole goal, not the whole goal, a crucial aspect of the goal space, which, you know, Zen would say there is no goal space.
Shut up, but still is the liberation of deceptive mind forms so that you're actually present in a sort of, in a kind of no ground space in a groundless space with you're not, you have no expectations.
You're not seeking rewards or punishments.
You're actually all that energy that's normally invested.
There is free.
So you're floating on nothing.
And the nothing is far more rewarding and liberating than any inaction of some specific rule will ever possibly become.
This is part of why it is said, and the words are deceptive.
No self nature is true.
Self nature.
The true self is unencumbers itself.
And this is how love could be.
And sometimes is at least in moments.
Um, but this is very terrifying to moat to the waking mind to the quote unquote, the ego, the self, it wants to feel like it knows what's going on.
And if I do this, this will happen.
And if I don't do that, that'll happen.
Right.
It's got this really, um, trenchant stuckness.
In vigilance, ambiguity, and prediction.
And then also the roles of victim, persecutor, rescuer.
Those are very familiar roles.
So is the role of judge.
So is the role of spec commenting spectator, which by the way, is the role of the comedian, um, as well as, uh, the fan.
Right.
So would it be more accurate to say that reenactment manages certain ego boundaries or characteristics?
Is that.
It does, but it reduce the primary goal seems to be reduction of vigilance.
And let's be really clear that for this aspect of the, of the mind or the psyche, and those are sort of different things, even though they go together.
Um, positive ambiguity can be just as threatening as negative ambiguity.
Anything that fucks up prediction has to increase vigilance.
Though positive ambiguity is less, uh, imposing, less formidable.
It seems to me.
Yeah.
The humans are very concerned about this.
And one of the truly ironic things is what actors do is they, they sort of show us the way out in a very ironic way.
They take a highly structured role and then improvise into it.
Right.
They, they quote, bring it to life.
But what brings it to life is to in spirit, the structured role.
Right.
And this is so ironic because the role is fully structured.
It's a fucking script.
It's been written.
It's been written.
All the features of the role, you know, not all of them, but the whole structure of the role is, um, carefully elucidated.
And yet there's enough space for the actor to come in there and, you know, let butterflies free in that cage.
Um, which causes the audience to go into awe because they're doing the exact opposite thing in their lives.
They're not improvising into their role space.
They're mostly, um, reenact thing familiar.
Role mission.
Hmm.
Instead of massive, mostly unconscious of, but would cling to for dear life.
Well, greetings everyone.
Come.
Come.
I see.
I, um, you know, I, I love what you're saying.
There's so much good stuff in there.
Um, and I don't know.
I, I just figured since there seemed to be a space, maybe I'd, um, describe a couple aspects that just, uh, you know, uh, what you said evoked them in me.
Um, yes, and get your reactions, you know, because, um, I really, I'm going to react according to familiar.
I'm only going to react according to familiar roles, but go ahead.
Well, that's the prison that our minds are in.
No.
Right.
I'm playing a role right now.
Yeah.
It's a very familiar one, right?
It's the insightful, uh, you know, therapeutic rescuer slash I'm above all this guy.
Go ahead.
Yeah.
You know, okay.
So I was going to do it in a different order, but just based on what you said there, um, you know, I, I love everything you said, but I think about it a little, you know, in different terms, like anyone.
I hope so.
Great.
Yeah.
Um, you know, um, not to be a broken record, but to give credit where it's due.
I think for Vicki really, um, puts a fantastic point on this to me.
There's, um, there's two, you know, just kind of core dynamics to our, you know, our, our consciousness as it reaches out to understand and grasp the world.
Right.
Right.
And I really love how you described this in the past as the staff and the rattle.
Oh God.
Yeah.
This is so beautiful.
Uh, let's see.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Go ahead.
Oh, sorry.
Everything, everything you described, you know, of course is, is about the, um, the staff, you know?
So the psyche, uh, or the mind really in this case, you know, just given what it does understand, it can understand more clearly, you know, clearly defined roles, rules, boundaries, experiences it's already had, things it's already familiar with, you know?
And the psyche you say?
Well, you know, I, you use the word mind and I think mind might be better.
I'd be more inclined toward that, but I'm also open to seeing the psyche in this light.
Go ahead.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So it's important to understand that, you know, uh, there's two dynamics, right?
There's grasping what you're aware of.
You know, there's the manipulation, the grasping, the approach, the touch, the, you, you know, you understand I I'm looking at a table right now.
I can see there's a glass on the table.
I can reach and grab the glass.
Right.
Yeah.
Pragmatism pragmatic utilitarianism.
Yeah.
And you, you have to know before you can do it.
Right.
That's the staff.
Now, of course, the other dynamic is this expansion of the possibility space, you know, of what you're aware of.
I mean, my eyes scan the field constantly.
Right.
It's interesting to me.
I don't really notice anything unless it's kind of accidental or it kind of approaches my interests or, you know, the way that I take in new possibilities is really interesting.
And, you know, I, I think that a really helpful way to understand this is the dynamic between awe and horror.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I love it.
Yeah.
By the way, those two things can be like, right.
Almost the same thing at the same time.
But yeah, go ahead.
That's where I'm going.
Yeah, totally.
You know, because I think you called it a positive, I forget the word you use now, but awe is that positive expansion of what's possible.
So I kind of wonder, you know, there, there's the narrow kind of egoic mind, the way it explores the things, the way it reenacts the patterns and the habits that it's familiar with.
Right.
But I don't, you know, I do think that a lot of people reenact those patterns because they understand those patterns to be safe.
Yes.
And they're traumatized by the unsafeness of beyond those patterns, right?
Yeah.
Right.
And safe equals repetitively familiar.
Yep.
In this particular version of safe.
Yeah.
And I think reenacting those patterns, you know, within that sense of safety is something that people do quite a bit.
Right.
But I also think that when people sense that there's kind of a problem, a misalignment, a maladaptation of some sort,
they want to reenact those patterns again and again, kind of looking for the places where maybe they can expand into newness, you know, where they can realign it in a way that feels safe.
You know.
Mm-hmm.
Maybe they'll feel held and understand it, but can kind of expand into maybe adjacent or close at hand kind of new.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That's good.
Yeah.
So it's that kind of positive development, you know?
Mm-hmm.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I'm not going to have a horizon, but I'll take a few steps toward it.
Yep.
Uh-huh.
I'm going to do this thing I'm familiar with, but kind of wiggle or vary it just a little bit and see if that's still safe, you know?
Yeah.
But then on the other hand is horror.
Mm-hmm.
Also disgust.
Well.
Disgust is very prevalent.
Yeah.
In human.
Well, you know, okay, let me describe it this way.
You know, there's the egoic mind and the patterns that it feels familiar with, right?
Mm-hmm.
And disgust kind of falls within that familiar pattern.
Sure.
Disgust is something like, okay, you're aware of things you are disgusted by, then you encounter it, then you have that kind of standard reaction.
Mm-hmm.
Above that would be places where you feel anchored, where you still feel like yourself, where you can kind of explore into the space and expand the positive possibilities, right?
Mm-hmm.
Now, horror is beneath all this.
And, you know, sorry to draw it in this arrangement, but horror is a kind of expansion of possibilities within which you lose your mooring to reality, your sense of self.
So, you know, for example, people reenact their amorous relationships constantly, and they do it in ways that they feel safe.
They may want to, like, reenact their eros and add a little variation and see if that's still safe, too, and grow in that direction, right?
Yeah.
Or one day they may kiss somebody of the same gender and suddenly they're disoriented.
Like, who they thought they were becomes challenged, and their sense of self falls into this expanse where it no longer has any foothold, any kind of like, like, you know, I'm not who I thought I was, or I'm worried I'm not who I thought I was, or I don't even know who I am.
I don't even know what this world is anymore.
That's horror.
When you, you know, your expansion of the possibilities allows the ground of who you were to just kind of fall out.
And you don't understand yourself or the world anymore.
You know, and that's deeply challenging to the, that egoic mind, the self, you know, the thing that seeks safety, right, because there's no safety, necessarily.
So that sense of horror, I think, is really interesting, too, you know, it's the way in which, I mean, I think it can provide a really positive expansion, you know, but like, it's important to note it threatens the self directly, the sense of self.
Right.
So I just, oh, go ahead, please.
Well, okay, you know, with, with this in mind, I mean, you can see all the, the levers this society uses to manipulate people, right?
Oh, my God.
Yeah.
Let's call it the representational layer of this society.
Yeah, it totally, you know, it drives all these representational models into people's minds and, you know, wields it against them.
And certainly, it's all based around that trauma, right, like the safeness of being heterosexual.
Right?
Yeah.
Whereas homosexual not only debases you, but like, you know, it, it re, you know, it recapitulates all those traumas that we had growing up and through media and culture, like on the playground, or whatever the case may be, you know, it threatens everything that you believe you are to be.
But what's really interesting.
And thus may invoke disgust.
Oh, yeah.
Uh-huh.
I mean, disgust, I think, is a tool that's used to enforce the boundary, right?
Like, there is, there is the aspect of having a rep, a socially constructed.
Well, no, I'm going the other way, a socially abhorrent, I don't know, you know, like a taboo relationship.
Yeah, but that's socially constructed.
Yep.
Totally.
And the, one of the tools used to keep people away from taboo relationships is also a taboo sense of cleanliness.
Disgust.
Yes.
This is my point.
That's why I brought disgust in.
Yeah.
It's a, it's a kind of, it links to hygiene, right?
It's linked up to hygiene.
It's very strong.
Yeah.
You know, disgust is one of these things that like, you know, it's a clear lizard brain manipulator, right?
You know, it's a, if, if somebody's pulling your strings, this is one of the stronger ones.
Yes.
It's a fundamental tool in psyops.
Yep.
Right.
Get these people to be disgusted by those people or themselves.
Yep.
The other is unclean.
Yeah.
Yeah, exactly.
Totally.
Um, but the thing that kind of is behind all this for me, at least the words that I would use, you know, um, deep down, I think the desire here is the desire for unity, right?
It's, it's to be understood, which can only happen if you also understand, and that desire to come together in a sense of unity, you know, in a greater connection.
Um, with the universe, including all of its manifestations, like, you know, both the males and females and whatever else in between all around you, you know, but of course it's governed by all these, like this weird, you know, what you call the, uh, like psychopomp or like, you know, all these psychological structures that have been, you know, thrown like banana peels and hurdles right into the way of our own growth.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
This is the inheritance of individuality.
Um, the idea of separate persons, uh, because now we have to, now we are, we, we are become manipulables because our togetherness is either missing or totally compromised or ersatz.
Um, phony.
Um, and so in that situation, all of the features that would ordinarily arise organically in communal relations, uh, become weaponized.
Yep.
Now you have to buy them.
Um, you can buy a same sex sex worker, of course.
Right.
Yeah, exactly.
And you know, that is, I, I love what you said.
Like, you know, the, the punishment is often the reward too.
Right.
Yeah, exactly.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Exactly.
You know, for masochists and other, other forms of people with maladaptive reward centers.
Right.
Yeah.
Uh, you know, and, and I don't mean maladaptive reward centers, but maladaptive senses of reward, you know, but anyway, um, I, you know, I was always fascinated by the, you know, my understanding of the Greeks were that.
They felt that their brotherly love among the same gender was the strongest and most rewarding of the loves of the world, at least among their fellows.
Yeah.
Oh yeah.
I mean, even in my own experience, the two best friends I had in my adult life in my twenties and thirties, my God, the depth of that relationship.
It was very different from my loves of women, but holy shit.
The intimacy there, that bond.
Whoa.
Yeah.
Just crazy.
I miss it every day of my life.
Like to have that bond with another man.
Oh God, please.
I want some.
Well, what's fascinating is that you start from a closer basis, right?
Like so much of what you share in common is the same compared to relationships of the opposite gender.
You're so you're closer to unity already.
And I think it's much more accessible for people like us.
You know, I, I'm kind of like, like you in the sense that, you know, like the idea of making love to a man, I don't know.
That's pretty.
Yeah.
I could get away with kissing a guy a little bit, but when it comes to penises, I'm out.
Yeah.
You know, um, one time many years ago after a lot of drinks, hanging out with a bunch of friends, this guy grabbed me and kiss me.
And you know, it's, it's not something that I go seek, you know, it's not, you know, I have a partner and she's female and whatever.
Yeah.
But that was, uh, that was an interesting experience.
You know, like that alone was mind expanding because in the sense that, you know, it's not maybe my preferred thing, at least not at this moment.
You know, I didn't ultimately just outright reject it, like with every fiber of my being.
And the thing is, is that it allowed me to kind of see some value or benefit and to understand that, you know, that's not as abhorrent as society would like me to believe.
And that's really interesting.
Or even your own psyche.
Yeah.
Uh huh.
Nevermind society.
It was a sense that, you know, okay, well, that's, that's not the devil.
Right.
This isn't the end of the world.
Yeah.
But I think that, that, you know, of course, this system can't allow people to come together.
The system has to smash them into pieces into nuclear families.
Uh huh.
I mean, it does both.
It does both because taboo is also right.
Don't do that.
Okay.
That must be a really interesting thing.
You know, it's like, you know, when you see people buying chair Guevara t-shirts, you know, the system expands into its own hedges.
Oh yeah.
Oh yeah.
And it captures, um, it captures rebellion.
It captures revolutionary stuff.
It captures, uh, taboo stuff.
It captures everything.
Yeah.
There's nothing it can't capture and represent and then sell back to you.
The wrapping paper.
It's astounding.
You know, it's something that I, that I want to mention here, just as an aside.
Um, my recently ex-roommate, uh, has been working at Burning Man for more than a decade.
Um, and of course I've never been to Burning Man.
Um, and I only have sort of vague understandings of what goes on there.
But one thing that goes on not only there, but in the clades outside of Burning Man that are familiar with and have gone to Burning Man is a thing they have an acronym for.
Um, and it's, I mean, I don't know the actual acronym.
I think it's a four letter acronym, but essentially it's called a make out bar.
And a make out bar is where you have a menu.
Right.
I mean, this is my, uh, uh, limited understanding of it.
Um, you have a bartender or three or four bartenders and there's a menu.
Right.
And you can buy like a kiss, you know, a smooch, a hug, an embrace, a tender kiss, a sexy kiss.
You know, uh, a light make out session, a heavy make out session.
Um, or there's some things on there that aren't entirely delimited.
Right.
Like you can buy improvisation.
You can buy like all these things.
Right.
And so my friend, um, who's a cisgendered guy, uh, he's often a bartender at these events.
In fact, I think there might be one going on today in his clade in Oregon.
And, um, you know, the bartender is the purveyor of your order.
So can you imagine what that would be like?
That is so anathema to anything I have ever considered or experienced.
And it's not sex for sale, right?
It's not prostitution.
By the way, there's no charge for any of the items on the menu.
Burning Man is a cash-free environment.
So there's no fee.
When you go to the restaurant, they just feed you.
Okay.
When you go to the make out bar, you just get make outs.
Right.
There's no, there's no transaction.
And I just, I can't imagine like having make outs with random guys.
And, you know, my friend, like I said, he's a cisgendered guy.
But, you know, he makes out with guys somewhat regularly based on this form of play.
And it's just mind blowing to me.
I'm like, oh my God, how could that even wait?
What?
That exists?
They do.
Could I do that?
You know, it would never occur to me that I might be capable of doing that.
But having known that my friend does it, it becomes apparent that I probably could, especially
because it's not going to get down to the dick.
Right.
It's going to stay mostly not about the dick or, you know, being penetrated or having, having
to suck it or whatever.
Right.
So that creates a safety space, much like you were talking about, right?
Where there's there's a degree of safe outside of the familiar that we can explore.
And these people have just decided, well, let's explore the space of physical eros without going
all the way there at the bar, because I don't think they do that.
Right.
I don't think they go to like oral sex or penetration, things like that.
Um, petting probably.
So yeah, that, that just blew my mind right out the back.
I was like, well, I do what?
You know?
And then I was like, wow, they do what?
Um, but I just find it interesting, by the way, in the two spaces that you described,
um, when we were talking about psyche and mind, uh, the rod and the rattle, right?
The grasping and the encompassing is, is another way.
Like, like the, the fingertip, well, sort of the tip of the penis and then the vagina,
right?
The, the penetration, the tapping, the rod, and then the encompassing rattle.
Um, there's a third space.
We might just call it the third space.
It's the liminal space.
It's the space that is neither one or the other in which both are involved,
but neither become, um, like the thing going on.
Uh, it's like the flow between them.
Yeah.
Um, dawn and twilight and also hypnagogia and hypnopompia.
Yeah.
What's really interesting is the, to me is the, um, you know, we, we mentioned one of the
core desires is this desire for unity, right?
And, and to be understood and understand, but in order to get there, at least how, you
know, everybody I've ever known in this world, we're just cauterized, you know, we're amputated.
Yeah.
The circumcisions.
And the core thing, you know, like, I think that our skills with the rod are pretty strong.
Right.
But our skills, they prevail rattle, you know, an expansion of the possibilities in order to
approach, um, unity or anything else, you know, uh, an expansion of who we are, we have to
develop that possibility space, you know, to allow and explore and encounter new things
that, you know, we couldn't imagine before.
And, um, being able to, uh, be aware of all of the possibilities while also being able
to grasp and wield them, you know, is that kind of formlessness.
I think that you were describing earlier.
It relies on the interplay between both.
Right.
Yeah, this is the no ground position.
Yeah, exactly.
I got nothing underneath me and I'm not concerned about it.
It's almost like I'm free falling through experience.
You're not attached.
But, but I'm not concerned about falling.
Right.
I am unhindered.
I'm not tensing up around anything at all.
So, and as, um, little, uh, bubbles of tension arise, I notice and they dissolve.
Nobody wants to be free falling.
Nobody I know.
They're not like, yeah, I want the experience of having everything just in absolute flux
and with me, no idea what's going on and just, uh, yeah, no, I don't think.
And yet, um, our soul, which is not afraid of death, the dreaming mind, not afraid of death,
dies every night.
No problem.
I mean, it's a problem, but, you know, not afraid of death.
So not tensing up.
And as, as the spirit tenses up in dreaming, we approach waking, right?
That's the actual, you know, you can imagine, um, some men who've become extremely sensitive
and intelligent about their penises, right?
And they have a tradition of avoiding hard-ons at any cost because they know that as that organ
becomes engorged, their sensitivity becomes hyper-focused and declines in all other domains,
or most of them, right?
Um, now this is a joke.
I mean, I'm meaning this as a, you know, as a humorous thing.
Uh, though I did say somewhat recently something that I thought was hilarious.
And I suspect nearly every dead grandmother sat up in her grave and cheered.
Um, I said, um, a man who is chronically absent from intimacy and relation is never more absent
than when he's hard.
And I was talking to a woman and she just cracked up.
You're not supposed to be able to say that you're a man.
Um, men aren't, don't go around, you know, telling the secrets of a woman's heart.
Hmm.
But, um, I'm not necessarily denigrating, uh, the erection.
I'm just noticing that it's often extremely problematical because men become hyper-focused.
And women will commonly say during or after sex, you know, like a three-word phrase or a four-word
phrase, where did you go?
Like, why did you disappear from intimacy with me?
And the guy's not going to say, well, we were fucking, right?
But that's basically like, but I became a sewing needle.
Right?
Uh, I just turned into a nomadic hammer.
What were you expecting?
I'm making jokes again, but.
I feel funny that my, you know, when I laugh, it's not heard because I'm on mute, but it's
pretty good stuff.
Oh, oh, uh-huh.
Yeah.
Um, yeah.
So the make out bar, what a trippy idea.
That's one of the, the beauties of this, you know, I, I've never been to Burning Man.
My partner's been a couple of times, but the art, like the way that you can embark on experiences
that expand your mind seem like the major draw to me, you know, what, what's really, you
know, just relating back to what you just said, you know, this trick of like funneling
into the personal experience or the projection of the mental con concept, you know, the way
in which like, you know, where did the intimacy go?
Like that's such an interesting black hole that, you know, the humans all around us are.
And, and me to some degree, depending on the time too, are trapped by or stuck in, you know,
that it's got a strange gravity.
It's interesting.
Yeah.
I mean, we were talking earlier.
I'm not sure if you were present for it about, um, two triangles that are really important
in my, uh, recent thought, but also historical.
Uh, one is the drama triangle, right?
The role of rescuer, uh, victim persecutor, and we can circle around those roles.
Uh, we don't have to just play one though.
I have a predilection for rescuer.
I occasionally like to play victim.
So, you know, come at me with a knife sometime when we're together.
Okay.
Um, but, uh, and then the other triangle of, um, maybe it should actually start with ambiguity.
I usually start it with vigilance, uh, but, uh, ambiguity, vigilance, and prediction.
And what is obvious here to me lately, one of my core insights, which I've said earlier,
but I'll repeat it is that, um, we will almost all, unless we are trained to improvise, we will
almost always prefer enacting a familiar role.
Um, even if we know it produces a shitty outcome because it reduces vigilance.
It reduces ambiguity and it makes predictions much more easily, you know, easy to both conceive
of and, uh, enact the process that produces them.
So most of us will play, you know, there's a huge gravity toward familiar roles.
Um, the disgruntled housewife who's sexually unfulfilled.
His husband is a mean man that doesn't see her and she would like to have sex with him,
but his approach is shitty and bothers her.
And so she'll only have sex with him if he approaches her in way X, which he almost never
will.
And blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
Right.
These roles become very familiar and their familiarity feels safe.
We mistake that familiarity for safety due to the reduction in ambiguity or novelty
and the reduction in vigilance.
Conversely, we don't know how being human works.
Right.
Right.
That possibility space is too vast.
And this is part of how cultures weaponize our existence, our lives, our personhood.
They just provide predictable roles.
Right.
That's all you really need.
Give them predictable roles.
They don't really care if they're being punished or rewarded.
It doesn't matter.
And you can give them really tiny rewards and that's enough if they're not getting the
good stuff.
Right.
So this is part of how our humanity is stolen.
To be human means to explore the space without concern about the form of the reward openly,
like groundlessly, playfully.
And we find that we get very novel forms of reward if we are indeed reward seeking.
And I mentioned earlier punishment is a reward.
Rejection is a reward.
So various kinds of losses function as rewards because they are stimulating.
Right.
They stimulate us.
Um, they motivate us.
So this is a very complex and fascinating to me.
Um, improv is the nature of humans, but we like to improv within relatively familiar frameworks.
Um, just going to tell a dumb story here that I think is hilarious.
So one of my close friends, I was talking with him the other night.
We haven't spoken in quite some time.
And he was a sort of a follower of mine for a time, a long time ago.
Um, and he's very spectrumy, very unusually minded person.
Um, I, I don't think he'd object, although he and I have both discussed the problem of labels.
And I acknowledge that problem.
Um, nonetheless, we can use them conveniently while apologizing for them if necessary.
And, uh, love this guy.
He's so brilliant in his developmental, um, tenacity.
Because he's tried various things a few times and they catastrophically fail.
And then he'll just try them again.
Right.
Um, until they work, which is uncommon in many people.
A lot of times if we get stung once on a developmental path, we, you know, we shy away from it in the future.
But, uh, he was quite surprisingly talking about having had conversations with trees.
And I was like, oh my God, this guy's really gone somewhere.
I'm like, even I, I adore trees.
I, I relate with them ceremonially, but I don't really have conversations with them.
And the tree in, in one thing he shared, the tree told him in social relationships,
you'll find your place much, much more easily and boundaries will be sustained and nurtured much more easily.
If you wrinkle up your bark, make that make furrows in your bark.
And then things won't be so black and white because there'll be places where you receive in places where you reject in places in the middle all around you.
Now this is a fundamental intelligent response from nature herself, right?
Your brain did this.
Your cortexes are wrinkled for this reason.
It increases the surface area.
So that which comes at you, it's never one thing or the other, right?
And it's always a multiplicity of things.
Some extremely intelligent and blatantly tree like piece of advice.
Does this make any sense?
I like it makes sense to me.
So I have a tree that I'm very close with.
And I once went to that tree with a specific question.
I asked the tree for things before, and I give the tree some things too.
But in this case, I asked it, I said, you know, I'd really like you to teach me about fairies.
I want to know about fairies.
Will you teach me about fairies?
And the tree didn't say anything.
And I would often visit the tree just before making my traditional circuit of, you know, my walk, my long walks.
In Golden Gate Park.
And it took me a while before I figured out, before I think I figured out what was going on, because something very strange happened.
Over the next week, two or three times a day, I was getting hit on by gay men.
And I didn't realize that my tree had a sense of humor.
And I didn't even make the connection.
Go ahead.
Go ahead.
Yeah, practically literal, huh?
Right.
Well, it's like I'm a San Francisco tree, bro.
What are you thinking?
What do you think I was going to show you?
But also, it never occurred to me, and only until I told this story to my friend, it never occurred to me that I might have been dim.
I might have been dim because one of those men that approached me was so strange in his way of relating with me that in hindsight, I'm pretty sure that wasn't a human being.
But because I thought he was a human being and because I wasn't open and paying attention, I treated him as a gay man coming on to me, which, of course, I don't want.
I don't want that.
And it so even further didn't occur to me.
That I live in a city.
There are no fairies here.
In order to teach me about fairies, it might have to find humans with fairy spirits.
And those humans might appear like gay men.
Right.
So there's all kinds of features of this thing that are really weird to me and confusing.
But in hindsight, I can see that perhaps the tree wasn't merely making a joke, though the joke is very funny.
If it was making a joke.
Now, I want to hear some I want to hear some George in this conversation.
George, what's in your mind?
It's time for you to opine.
I'm on my phone right now.
Oh, OK.
All right.
I can't really hear corn fed.
But yeah, I think Alistair Crowley used homosexual relations as a tool of enlightenment, basically for dissolving the ego, which is pretty fascinating.
But what did you learn about what did you learn about fairies from your experience?
I'm curious.
Well, I think I'm learning now more than I did before.
By the way, since you're on your phone, why is it that you cannot hear corn fed?
It's some kind of bug.
I'm not sure why.
Oh, shit.
OK.
OK, before I answer your question, go back to what you were talking about, about Burroughs earlier as well, please.
Yeah, I mean, I tend to think of love in terms of transference, as you were saying.
But I can I can see it going both ways, because on the one hand, rejecting Eros can further or deepen certain kinds of, you know, like the modes of intimacy.
But on the other hand, I think it can also preclude or like function as a means of escaping certain modes of intimacy.
So like, you know, for example, in my own experience, I can see how like my reluctance to enter into a romantic relationship is really bound up with like a fear of death, because love is a certain kind of transformative experience.
So in like, like in castrating yourself or, you know, chopping off your balls that can function as a mode of liberation, a form of freedom, because you're escaping a certain kind of intimacy, which is otherwise like a prison.
So, you know, like women in my experience, like in my experience with women, I tend to feel like confined, which I think is quite natural.
Like I think it's part of the function of, you know, reproduction to lose your ego in entering into like a relationship with a woman and in having children like that's a certain form of death.
So in resisting that, I can see how something within me, within my own ego is resistant to dissolution, which I think is what Aleister Crowley was essentially trying to approach, because in his in his system is, you know, as little as I know of it.
He would deliberately engage in these like homosexual acts in order to challenge his own ego and in order to confront the abyss, which is part of his magical path.
But yeah, there's there's definitely something there. So I can see the connection to what you're saying earlier.
Yeah, there was something though that you said about Burroughs and homosexuality earlier before we were recording. Can you read?
Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, I mean, Burroughs basically said that. So Burroughs rejected the concept of love entirely. He didn't think that it even existed.
So, so he rejected like love for the female sex entirely. He thought that it was some kind of invention, like a medieval contrivance.
He specifically thought that it was invented by women, which is kind of funny.
Well, it can't be untrue since they invented men. Go ahead.
Oh, exactly. Exactly. That's that's the point that I'm trying to get at.
Yeah. In talking about how, like, you know, as a man reproducing with a woman, you know, through pair bonding and just what it means to be human.
It definitely undermines the man. That's part of what I think part of what, you know, reproduction entails like.
But yeah, the aspect of transference that Burroughs was highlighting is curious because in desiring to be the other person, there's something like there's something at work there about maybe inhabiting your own universe or like closing yourself off.
There's a kind of withdrawal from the universe and like the secondary creation, which is a kind of magical operation, I suppose.
I mean, you see you see the same motif in in like the Kabbalah, for example, or in, you know, perhaps.
Yeah, yeah, this quest to edify a kind of secondary or subsidiary creation, which is like cleaving from the primary creation of God.
So perhaps Crowley was sort of exploring that dimension.
But yeah, I can see how in in transferring one's own identity upon the person with whom you're engaged in, like a sexual act, there's a kind of self work at play.
You're basically working on yourself, you're trying to transform yourself in a certain respect by projecting your own identity upon this other person in a way that might not be possible in a heterosexual situation.
So I guess that's what I was generally considering.
Yeah, you said something that resembled you said something very, very crisp.
It's not the word I want, but it was very simple.
It was like Burroughs envisioned homosexual relations as a kind of mirroring or knowing of oneself or.
Perhaps even owning like a transference of onanism onto the other.
I mean, I'm making that up. You didn't say that, but what are your thoughts?
Yeah, I think so.
So instead of transferring, it's almost like.
In a way, it's it's a kind of negative transference.
Right. Yeah, because it's not included.
It's not occluded by gender.
In the way that heterosexual relationships might be.
Right. And that I think that broach is what you were saying earlier about your own experiences with with men in the past.
Oh, huh. Yeah.
There were two of them, particularly.
One of my 20s and one of my late 20s and 30s.
God, I still love those men.
And neither of them want to have any contact with me at all.
They're just like, don't don't call me.
I mean, the second one, we had some text exchanges recently over the recovery of some of our creative endeavors that I had on cassette.
And it was relatively friendly, but in no way did he want to speak with me or, you know, discuss like our lives or anything like that.
And that that wall.
Of no contact, like just don't contact me under any service.
I don't care.
That's a pretty painful outcome.
And I mean, I'm sure there must be good reasons.
I remember.
I remember the features of situations and my behavior that led to their behavior, too.
But that led to our breakups.
Yeah, those were by far the most deep relationships and never verged on sexuality for me.
For them, though, both of them were cisgendered guys.
Yeah, but I suppose that I experienced this whole reenactment in terms of a similar kind of transformation.
So I don't get the impression that I reenact certain scenarios merely because of some kind of trenchant habit.
I really like in my own experience, I really feel like I'm trying to overcome some kind of grievance or transgression.
And that's why I mentioned freedom earlier.
I was curious about that.
Yeah.
So some of these fixations that I that I encounter, I think, are really bound up with attempting to rectify some kind of situation in my own psyche, in my own past.
And that's that's what I was hoping to explore.
Yeah, it doesn't feel like some kind of inert, entrenched instinct, if that makes any sense.
Sure.
And I never meant to imply, for example, that it was only or primarily that.
Right, right.
Right.
Also, when we speak like that.
Okay, so one of the things that was going on in the book I was reading is that the author was rarely speaking abstractly.
Right.
He was grounding his discussion in specific cases.
Which is just an important thing to notice because when our discussions are abstract in that they are unanchored to a specific situation, and we're, you know, we're speaking in generalizations and so forth.
I think it can be quite deceptive.
I am inclined when doing that to forget that I'm being abstract.
Number one.
Number two, that there's no such thing as an abstract situation.
Those just don't exist.
All situations are actual, intimate, real, and the kind of thinking that we do, which can be useful as long as we don't forget that it's different from actual situations.
So, yeah, that's my, my little homily about that.
Say more, ask more about this freedom you spoke of, if you would.
Yeah, so, so the fear of death, I think ties into the experience of love and transference in general.
Because death and self transformation are linked.
So, the experience of falling in love is a kind of transformative experience or a self transmogrifying experience, which is linked to a kind of suicide or death.
So, you know, perhaps everyone has a death instinct or an instinct to overcome some kind of entrenched instinctual framework.
Like most of us are basically living on like instinctual autopilot, you know, habitual and instinctual.
Yes, right. Yes, of course.
And so I think I can identify in myself a certain kind of resistance because I fear death, like any living thing to certain forms of intimacy, as you were saying.
So that's why I said that I can see it going both ways, I suppose.
So like transgenderism is perhaps merely an extension of the same kind of path that characterizes homosexuality.
This kind of maybe self self enclosing and therefore liberating release from from our environment.
Because, yeah, like as soon as you like castrate yourself, you're free from certain kinds of drives or impulses, you know, more so than if you had, you know, kept your balls or whatever.
You know, so, yeah, it's simultaneously liberating and self enclosing in a way that can be its own kind of prison.
So, yeah, there's a kind of paradox there.
But I think I think that that that dissonance or that paradox results from a more primitive kind of grievance or situation that within the psyche needs to be rectified.
So you can you can try to rectify it by castrating yourself.
That's one possible path.
You can try to rectify it by engaging in homosexual relations.
That's another possible path.
I'm not really sure how to navigate those paths, but that's sort of what comes to my mind when I when I think about these subjects.
But what about Burroughs were you were you curious to explore?
I know very little about his private life, just I've read a few things about his his own accounts.
I mean, you know, sexual escapades.
I don't know what was going on with him.
I know a bit about his life and sexuality.
He strikes me as an extreme.
Okay.
So Burroughs.
Is a really fascinating character for a number of reasons.
One of them is that he.
He has a sense of justice and injustice.
Oh, and by the way, let's just not forget that he was married, had a child and accidentally shot his wife in the head while being drunk and playing William Tell with a revolver, a game they had played many times in the past.
Um, let's just not forget those things.
Right.
Because, uh, it's hard to imagine the psychic, uh, repercussions, pun intended, right?
The percussion of the revolver discharge.
Right.
My God.
Um, yeah, let's just keep those things in mind.
Um, I don't know a lot about his relationships prior to that event, though.
It's clear he had some, um, particularly probably with poets and writers, though also probably with actors.
Uh, so Burroughs is a weird cat for a number of reasons.
Well, on the one hand, he, um, he clearly has a conscience, something resembling a very alien, uh, kind of conscience.
While at the same time, um, gladly and publicly taking a piss on the ethics of the mob and their suppositions about morality, particularly as it regards sexuality.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Hmm.
Yeah.
Well, there's also a connection between Burroughs and Crowley.
Let's hear it.
Well, you know, Burroughs believed that he was possessed.
So he, he basically explained the accident involving his wife in terms of his own possession by this, uh, kind of spiritual force, which he was attempting to bring out through the cut up method.
That's why he tried to develop the method.
Oh, this, I did not, this is not familiar to me, though.
I may have been exposed to the idea previously.
Can you repeat the method cut up, right?
Um, take a text, cut it up into bits, randomize them, put them back together piecemeal to produce, uh, what we might think of as magical oracular or spell casting texts.
Yeah.
I have experiment.
I have experimented with that method at great length.
Um, that shit is real.
It does what it is a method for doing what he describes.
It's not a fantasy in my view and experience.
It actually led to the production of truly oracular texts that predicted future situations and relationships and so on in my experience.
Right.
Yeah.
Basically, he believed that the way in which we use language actually eclipses certain forms of insight.
So he was attempting to bring this demonic force within himself out through the cut up method by overcoming the ways in which human language, um, uh, sort of preclude insight.
So that was his, um, I think one of his motivations, he was doing a form of magic.
I think he was, um, doing something along the lines that Crowley outline.
You know what they meant by magic is just as weird as the difference between what angels are and what humans say.
Yeah, I think that was behind his premise that language is a virus from outer space.
Are you aware of that?
Yes.
This whole notion of like a hyperstition.
Wow.
Fictions that make themselves real.
Yeah.
By the way, when humans write books and make films, they generate futures.
Those things are not, uh, just imaginal, no chance of that being true, but the humans don't really believe that.
I was talking with Lee the other day about the story of a film called Man Facing Southeast.
It's a very important film in my, uh, mind and world and the supposition by the author and director that it was stolen to make the film K packs.
Hmm.
And how can you go ahead?
I wasn't aware of that.
Are you aware of the film?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
You know of Man Facing Southeast?
Uh, no, K packs.
Oh, you might strongly recommend that you get a copy of Man Facing Southeast.
I can arrange that.
It's helpful.
Um, and this led to a very peculiar conversation in which it became apparent that the focus of her love interest is actually the character from the film,
who was born in the film, who was born in the year, the film was made.
Um, and I use this to support my theory that films, especially films like, um, MFS are not merely oracular.
They generate future lines.
And this is part of what Crowley and Burroughs were invested in.
Right. Yeah.
So the whole mechanism by which fictions make themselves real, I think involves feedback.
So what Burroughs was doing involved feedback.
He was taking his own output as the input of future operations.
So he believed that he could basically engineer the future through this, yes, self-reinforcing feedback loop.
Genius.
Which actually ties into his whole view of homosexuality, I think, because the way in which he was describing his, you know, sexual relations is totally consonant with that kind of operation.
Indeed.
Indeed.
That was, um, a gene.
That was a moment of genius on your part.
Uh, I want to highlight that, um, Burroughs and others recognized a feature of both cognition, of, of cognition, consciousness, awareness, and action.
That is primordial and largely unconsciously acknowledged by humans.
Um, you don't engage in an action that doesn't involve feedback.
The nature of cognition is a feedback system.
The nature of sensation is a feedback system.
The nature of birth and death is a feedback system.
The nature of dreaming and waking is a feedback system.
These generate feedback loops, and they're not simple the way that technological feedback is simple.
Say, for example, if you place the pickup of the guitar next to the speaker of the amplifier and produce a noise that way, or if you go ahead.
Well, yeah, it's like a magnifying glass.
So what Burroughs was trying to do was to magnify this inner spirit to understand it.
He was trying to bring it out.
Um, yeah, through feedback specifically.
Yeah.
He was both invoking and evoking it.
Um, also, I just want to point out here the difference between feedback in nature, or we could say existence, and feedback in mechanical systems.
This strongly resembles the difference between what humans think of as fractals and what I, gosh, I don't actually have a, I should invent a neologism for this.
Um, what I observe in the relationship between the, um, what I'll call origin form.
Well, no origin being form my body, my hand, my fingertips.
Um, that relationship is not like a fractal.
A fractal is the reiteration of formal tropics, tropes, right?
Over, um, scales or, um, boy, when I start using filler words, you can tell that I'm having trouble.
Um, scalar instant sings of a principle and in mathematical fractals, what you don't get, as far as I understand, I could be confused.
Our novel reinstancing of the principle in a functional variant at the, at the register.
That's the word I was looking for at the register of the fractal, which we could think of as the, um, iterative layers of a fractal system.
So when humans look at, um, come to computationally or mathematically, uh, evoked fractals, they don't see how nature's fractal systems work.
And there should be a different word there.
I'm sure there actually is a better word, but I could invent one for what nature is doing because it isn't a fractal as humans.
As humans understand this concept.
And I'm sure that both Crowley and Burroughs were uniquely aware in a preternatural way about this.
They were aware of this.
They knew that feedback in nature or cognition or time or place, right?
One of the things Burroughs did, which I think was a genius.
I learned so much from him.
Um, is he developed a system of, um, vengeful action where he became aware that if you wanted to visit destruction on something, go to that person or place.
Make a recording and then return to that person or place at a different time and play the recording back.
This is an implementation of his understanding and feedback.
It's a nefarious one.
It's a nefarious one.
He gave no instances of a positive mode of this that I'm aware of.
Right?
Uh, so this points up his awareness feedback.
Quite different also from what happens if you take the output of a, of an active video feed and direct it to the input.
So you take a camera that is feeding into say a computer monitor with an active video feed.
And then you just point the camera at the monitor.
And what it produces is a sort of infinite mirror effect that warps in interesting ways as you move the camera.
Again, this is not, this is a feature of how feedback is in nature, but it is not the feature, not by a long shot.
Um, what happens in feedback in nature is a very peculiar thing.
And I would argue that the problems with the double slit experiment, uh, have directly to do with this, huh?
We expect the feedback.
We're not actually perceiving that a feedback is occurring, right?
We just think of the photons like bullets.
You shoot them at the, at the slits and they do different things.
Well, if you're depending on whether you're shooting them one at a time and how you arrange the situation,
in terms of sensors, we're not realizing that you can't do anything with light that doesn't produce feedback in light.
Because light is so primordial that if you mess with it, you're messing with yourself.
There's no way to separate yourself from the light.
Right?
And it's the same problem with time.
You cannot mess with time from outside it.
Um,
George, I, I.
I need to hear from you.
yeah i mean precisely we ordinarily think of time as something like a container that moves
steadily according to some kind of array of homogeneous units
um using something like seconds so the way in which we conceive of time is usually
already confused because not usually no it's completely in backwards inside out
amputated like just you know ridiculous nonsense right so the form of the body is already a matter
of feedback right so the appearance of a certain form is already the product of a feedback process
or a loop yeah this goes to our ontological discussions yeah precisely yeah so that's
where i would try to go with it yeah and i i agree uh the so the forms are like waves
of character intelligence history and futurity arriving locally and in structuring over what
we think of as time but not the kind of time we think of right there's there are other kinds of
time right like um so that the form of the tree is like a wave that keeps acquiring new feedback
anomalisms and novelties over some span through which we could observe it in linear time
but it is not a linear time thing it's a kind of time of mode of time of a species of time
that is unlike our suppositions about linear temporality or clock time right yeah the being is a form of time
itself but right we ordinarily imagine that time continues to tick irrespective of change so
we basically separate the passage of time from what takes place within perception so yeah this is why
i mentioned that you know time is ordinarily regarded as a container within which changes take place but
that that that point of view can't be can't be right uh yeah it's also it's um thought of as a continuum
it's not thought of as a field it should be thought of as a field it should be thought of as a relational
field it should be thought of as a field impregnated by the characters and intelligences of the origin and being
and relational uh intimacy
um you know one thing i would argue is that
the humans we have this bad problem with um individual things
we're really stupid about this and it's not that there aren't individual things it's just that that
doesn't have precedence and what has precedence is so insane that it's no wonder we made up some
bullshit about it um i would argue that a tree is not just receiving time waves of in charactering
fertilizing form instruction from origin time space being it's also receiving moment to moment
transformations from all trees that ever existed and that presently exist on earth and probably from
trees that don't yet exist right yeah like we understand the the flow of time by analogy with
space so we look at a field in darkness and then we superimpose some kind of grid some kind of abstract
phase space um that can be plotted on graph paper so this all comes from descartes but we understand
time similarly so we think that changes take place and then over transformation
we superimpose some kind of grid some kind of array of homogeneous units
whereas i think in fact the being itself is the true metric so when you look at a tree
you see the actual metric itself the actual unit so the unit isn't superimposed
the unit is already present within perception it's already there
so so precisely because the form of the tree at a deeper layer is actually a kind of waveform but
that waveform has a certain periodicity which is the unit so the unit is already present it's not
superimposed in the form of a second or something like that um or a meter it's yeah it's it's already
you're already you're already downstream from the deeper cause by the time you arrive at that point
of view
okay
but there there appears to be more than one metric in the same way there appear to be more than
one kind of being so yeah and there's something about it which appears to be scalar as you were
saying so what distinguishes beings is something like scale
and we've delved into this before in terms of kleiber's law and certain other power laws in nature
uh talk about kleiber's law so kleiber's law expresses a relationship between the size of an organism
and its metabolic rate so that relationship is actually non-linear i think it's a power of three-fourths
so the metabolic rate of an organism increases with its mass or its surface area but that proportion
isn't isn't linear um it's like i think it's logarithmic
so the larger an organism becomes the slower its metabolic rate but it isn't a linear correspondence
yes this is um hang on a second wait for the siren
so this is the basis of something toy maker gave me to see as if i when toy maker gave me to see something
it was as if i became the process i was looking at and saw from as the process not from outside it
which is how we usually see i think and what he gave me to see was that different sizes of organisms
experience even linear time quite differently and as you say i would argue that they don't experience time
they are time it's my perspective that organisms are to time as stars are to light um they produce
modes of time and and their size is also um one more moment here
their size their physical size uh oh just to give an example so this isn't invisible um
from this perspective the quote amount of time experienced by a fruit for a fruit fly that lives for
say um 17 hours uh and um an elephant that lives for 110 years from this perspective they both
experienced quote the same amount of time in a lifespan this is one way of thinking about i'm not
saying it's true i'm saying it's useful to think this way and the the difference between the fruit fly
and the elephant in the case that i just made is geometrically uh magnified by the difference between
a cell and a fruit fly or a virus and a cell so these these features of nature these forms in nature are
modes of time and that time isn't a thing
a thing we should think of it more like an angel or a god or a feature of god or it's a being time is
is a being an entity if you will in in in my preferred view though i'm happy to think of it in other ways
um if humans were intelligent they would worship time
um right because they would want to talk with time they would want time to know them and to relate with
them and to confer with them um and as you say it's not as if there's a single metric um there's no
this is something that is also dumb that we are trained to do which is like what's the metric
you know uh there's no single metric there are angles of approach which we would be wise to
maintain multiple of at least five simultaneously and we could easily train each other and our
children to do this we just train them to do the opposite thing um there are angles of approach from
which we see multiple important metrics and we can switch around between uh giving primacy to one or
two or three of the metrics instead of saying oh this is the metric right and whenever we do that
we're going to get more intelligent because we're so used to think single val thinkle valued
metricity single valued metricity right oh this is the thing it's the clock second it's the speed of
light um so yeah there are multiple metrics and the metric that the metric or series of them that gains
importance depends on our purpose in analysis
um and deciding that the obvious metric is the important one is a way to get dumber
fast it's not that it isn't important but when it becomes single valued we are
we are amputating our capacity for insight right yeah
yeah the image of the external world i think is time itself
but the image of the external world is a function of the spatiality of the body so
the present moment is really indistinguishable from the physical form or the physical mantle
but the present moment therefore is more than just a point so it so we tend to think even aristotle
uh you know even aristotle regarded the present moment as a kind of point on a line but the present
moment is really a kind of interval so it has a kind of width or depth which i think proceeds from
the spatiality of the body so as you increase or concentrate the spatiality of the body time itself
changes and therefore the image of the external world changes
yeah uh and some traditions would ask us to do away in cognition with all of these things and focus
awareness groundlessly in presence in instantaneity
the moment right because the moment is a slice instantaneity
it's very difficult to cognize because it is not graspable
this is where the the angel lives yes this is where the magic happens yes the angels don't have
knowledge because there is no past there is no future they can relate with me as if there's a past
in the future for my sake because i think that way but for them they don't have knowledge knowledge is a post-facto thing
to be rather crass about it they are time
one thing that's um well you know just briefly i don't i don't know if this is just fodder
but um in engineering you know i found it really interesting inspiring how um of course we learned
descartes coordinate system you know and i'm i'm curious you know i assume george you might already
be familiar with radial or cylindrical or other forms of coordinate systems um and i was curious of darren
if you've thought about this in the same sort of way um have you guys heard of radial coordinates
cylindrical coordinates other coordinate schemas
yes and i'm a math idiot but um
the very first communication from toy maker radically transformed everything i'd ever thought
about coordinates and unified them and provided um a simultaneous the finalized uh demonstration
of point to line to disk to spear to the impossible those those layers
actually point to line to cross to disk to spear to the impossible go ahead it's certainly really
interesting that the inculcation of humans in this society involves like a multi-factored you know
line coordinate system like the deadest of them all the one that presumes no center right
and that's that's really interesting to me you know as this kind of normal sense of space
uh you know might be better understood in a radial coordinate system but
what's what's more interesting to me is just relating this back to what you were saying before about
feedback but not not the good feedback the fractal systems the kind of way um yeah the mechanical
derivations yeah because in that same sort of way um the kind of fractals that people are familiar with
are dead on one end of the equation right you um you give it input it produces output there's no
no it it simply has a function it's made a machine of itself you know so we have these beautiful fractals people
make art out of them and it's really interesting but it's dead it's merely a function
and so what's really interesting of course is when it's not merely a tool or an extension
of the the thought or you know the equation or the
you know i don't know you know when when it's not a dead extension of the agent but when there's actual
feedback when there's interplay
you know i don't know what's going to say yes improv right say it again improv improvisation yeah
the relationship is there and both ends are alive yeah this is this creates the third space
what i call the third mind it seems not mine you know maybe the universe better understood as living
within that space of course it's not dead on either end we may simplify it you know for any any range
of motivations but it's interesting to me how when i view the tree the closer i look at it the more
detailed it becomes the more it impresses itself upon me and also the transformation of form
form right you see the principle you see a principle uniquely instanced at each register
and with unique capacities and functions at each register of magnification or distance
yeah somehow we're both beings in time
mm-hmm somehow we're both agents of each other's change
yes but imagine
imagine how confused the humans are about trees
oh yeah i mean lumberjacks see dollar signs instead of canopies
yeah yeah but uh there's a specific feature i want to highlight
i want to you to imagine for a moment that you are born and will live and die as a tree
okay so there are trees that don't have this experience um trees that are transported in pots or
trees that are dug up and moved but for all other trees you will live and die in one specific place
so your relationship to place and time is entirely different from anything that can move around and
there is nothing other than like a mountain or a stone that can possibly exist over a vast temporality
without moving so its intimacy it becomes that place's expression of its intimacy with all other things
also it cannot affect doodly about its environment in terms of threats it cannot mediate threats i'm not
saying it has no capacity to mediate threats but physically right so the form of vigilance
that it employs in its awareness is completely different from something that's all about
mediating threats the tree cannot mediate threats physically well again there are there are capacities
of trees that do watch over and mediate certain kinds of threats but not in the way that for example
a human can and most of the threats the tree will face are human results of human behavior
so they must be really interested in relating with humans since most of the threat space comes from that
species there are other species that comprise the threat space but the mode of its vigilance must be
very different from a being that can move around and therefore contacting that intelligence
very different from a being that can be very different from a being that can be one of the most important
things to do if you are being concerned about intelligence
because that's a really unique form it can't move it it subsumes threats it infiltrates threats it um
embraces threats
i also once had the peculiar he's writing the story called tony's angel
tony's angel which i never finished it's about a guy who uh inherits a house has a basement
and he's a musician he meets another musician brings him over to his house and shows him this thing in
his room um one day he woke up from sleep and there was a prepared canvas in his bedroom
um the next day when he went to sleep and woke up there was some you know more preparation and over
time as he kept sleeping and waking up an image was appearing on the canvas
and it's an image that he thinks of as an angel and it turns out that this angel quote lives in his
basement unquote but one of the things that occurred to me when i was working on this story in my 30s
early 30s was that what if what if an angel is a being that is absolutely still relative to all beings that
move what if it's stillness is actually composed by the movement of all of all things that can move
right it's stillness is simply the shadow of that movement
in every possible form of movement that arises over the life of what we think of as the universe or the
everything well i know that george has spent a lot of time meditating on plants and how they reveal the
truer nature of the universe i don't know if you were coming off mute earlier but it seems like apropos
yeah darren do you think of something like a berry center
um kindly elucidate the meaning of that word so the um so the berry center is basically just the center
of mass between multiple revolving bodies and astronomy yeah yeah i didn't know that word or idea but yes
that's um very similar uh it was a stillness defined by the movement of anything that moves
in in this toy right of perspective um also what did you mean earlier by the use of the word
hyperstition that was a fascinating neologism i've never encountered before i think it's maybe it's
maybe it's not a neologism yeah i think uh well the whole concept of hyperstition was um
um i think popularized by nick land but basically hyperstition is the phenomenon whereby through fiction
an author can influence the future through feedback as i mentioned so i think even
like alternate reality games are examples of hyperstition because um an alternate reality game
attempts to engineer the future uh through this primordial work of fiction that becomes real
of its own dynamism so it works sort of like an egregore if you're familiar with that
um with the idea yeah yeah so yeah the whole notion of hyperstition is um becoming more common in
um you know the magical community for that reason because i think burroughs was also essentially doing it
even like a philip k dick we've mentioned this before um yeah philip k dick had certain accounts
in which he uh he wrote a book and then he met characters from his book in real life they would
like come to his doorstep are you familiar with that yeah yeah i am familiar with that because i've had
the experience uh yeah that's basically what hyperstition encompasses it's that kind of process i see
yeah that's fascinating it's usually um associated with chaos magic people like um robert anton wilson
i'm going to be a little distracted for just a moment
a little distracted for just a moment
i was curious to pick up on the tree and the berry center you know george
do you think that the image of the external world is the berry center
no i suspect that the image of the external world issues from a more primordial layer
which is immaterial so what we perceive as matter is already the product of a more primordial cause
which is bound up with some kind of wave-like motion
that exhibits holographic properties so the image of the external world is a kind of holographic
production um but i think people like carl pribrum who claim that the brain is a hologram
essentially um take a certain misstep so the so the brain isn't a hologram um rather your body is a kind of
um wave so what you what you perceive as your physical mantle isn't your true essence i mean
this is an old idea but um yeah essentially your material body is is co-extensive with the image of
the external world but they both issue from the same cause so so the image of the external world isn't
generated by the brain um or encoded in the brain so basically what i think takes place is a kind of
suppression or inhibition of real action in the external field and that inhibition takes the form
of something like a wave or an interference pattern so what we perceive is really the function of the
suppression of activity so nothing is really being generated by the brain something is rather being
inhibited so the propagation of a signal of some kind actually engenders a whole image and that
wholeness issues from a deeper kind of layer so the so the visual field is an integral whole that contains
certain harmonies or proportions over time or a certain kind of logic i think
um that can be brought out through phenomena like color specifically
but i think it also takes place within the form of the body so the the morphology of the body its actual
proportions so those proportions reflect a wave-like structure that never incarnates as an object but
which is rather requisite to the incarnation of objects
and um yeah so you can you can see the waveform physically but you can also perceive it in other
ways um beyond the physical body like at the at the moment of death
that's my suspicion
if we um you know let me think about how to formulate this question then
yeah so like neuroscientists claim that the image of the external world is the function of some kind of
signal electrochemical signal within your body and brain so so there exists some kind of vibration
in the external world which is particulate there are some kind of um so there are particles of some
kind in the external world that stimulate nerve endings which generate like some kind of electrochemical
signal that moves to the center of your body within your brain and that signal needs to be encoded or
decoded like uh like even like elon musk who i think is totally stupid but elon musk talks about
compression so his whole like theory of like um the whole basis of neural link is bound up with this
idea of compressing information but i think information theory is is incorrect in its assessment
of information itself because compression is is really bound up with the whole concept of information
which i don't think is actually happening so nothing is really being compressed or decompressed by the
brain but that's the that's the stance of modern neuroscience it's the idea that well what we
perceive is really some kind of product of our own organism so when when i perceive a color like magenta
you know both the physician and the physiologist or the physicist you know would would claim that
the appearance of magenta as a color is like other qualia it sort of arises through the organism
without having any kind of you know objective existence or um external cause so basically the the
neurologist localizes the cause of certain qualia to the body and i think that that step is based on a
misunderstanding so the piece that i'm trying to track down here is about the barycenter between these
these you know beings in time and you know uh hmm as we interact together as i interact with the tree
and you know in the sense of even merely viewing it but of course you know it impresses itself upon my
awareness and vice versa you know why did you call out the berry center you know what is beyond the
nature of our relationship which i tend to think of as light itself the kind of co-moment the influence
um you know what is it about the berry center that you thought was interesting
oh it just immediately came to mind ah yeah it was it was a result of the um the toy about the angel's
stillness right that its position was a position of absolute non-movingness generated by the movement
of all other beings or things or situations so forth even time i think that's what brought up then uh george
asked me if if that was relevant to the berries the berry center what you were describing immediately
reminded me of that so um i mean you you asked me recently about planets so i figured that maybe
something in my psyche um wanted to bring that out for you you know one thing that's interesting to me
at least is this kind of thought experiment you know yeah you can get this in video games at times right
but if i was to understand the world in terms of a um a radial
sort of symmetry a radial set of coordinates then it's interesting you know it's fascinating to me
you know and i'm working from a normative conception of physics here so you know please forgive the
rough edges and troubles um right now i i love to pace when i'm and this is kind of interesting to me
too i love to pace when i'm on a call or i'm the same way yeah yeah i feel like i gotta move and and
what's interesting about the idea of this radial symmetry is that although i've been trained and it
it may appear in a way to me that i move myself about the room i move myself about the earth you know
i got go up or down on the earth but i could take the center of course to be me and i notice how my legs
move the earth under me you know i notice how um well you get the idea um now of course any of these
symmetry systems you know dead in one end of the situation right and so it's it's interesting
to understand what is the center of gravity you know what is the the relational center between me
and you know any other thing but of course living things too so i guess that's that's what really
piqued my curiosity when you brought up the berry center but i i don't know if it can be further
resolved or you know addressed but that that was behind my question
you know where is the center
that determines
what's moving
and this is one of the unspoken questions excuse me
that led to my
what determines what's moving and there's a feature of this
that is
important in understanding the nature of time one of the things that's also important in
understanding that for me
is the idea of non-simultaneity in relativity which i'll try to very simply state
as
i think i've probably misunderstood this but also
the part that i have understood is useful which is that no two
points in space or observers can actually have the same experience at all
um and they certainly cannot have the same experience at the same time
in order for them to have the same experience at the same time they would have to have the same world
line
that non-simultaneity makes it obvious that beings are time beings
and that time is generated by them but that last thing i said doesn't emerge necessarily from non-simultaneity it emerges from the
perspective that asks the question
if there were just one thing could there be time
temporality appears to be the result of a relationship between things
yeah exactly and so once you have two things you can have time
but you can't have time if there's just one
of course it's extremely difficult to step to
imagine what there being just one thing would be like
i dare you to try it it's not going to go well
you can you can do it trivially
you can say well i just suppose that there's just one thing yeah fine okay
but to actually try to imagine that in any meaningful way is extremely difficult if not impossible
um so time is the relationship between different things however it has occurred to me just now for
the first time haha that um there might be a transcendental
thing which isn't the time that arises between two things or as the relationship
but is rather the possibility of temporality which is again impossible to imagine but but i could imagine
a being existing in some very difficult to understand transcendental state that is the much like the
possibility of direction um that is the possibility of time that's never i've never had that
yeah well the issue the issue for me with general relativity is that the idea of non-simultaneity
for einstein is bound up with time dilation which is really a measurement effect in general relativity
as opposed to an ontological transformation because time dilation is linked to length contraction
so essentially within general relativity you already need to suppose that both space and time can be
subordinated to something like units which i think is somewhat mistaken because what i think takes place in
the metamorphosis of a living being is something like true ontological transformation as opposed to a
measurement effect so the whole point of general relativity is to synchronize clocks so the purpose
of contrasting time dilation with length contraction is merely to allow clocks to become synchronized
which is the foundation of what we usually mean by non-simultaneity and general relativity so right
that framework i think is somewhat inadequate to understanding a living system
because um because um because the metamorphosis of a plant for example is a true ontological change
which is non-relativistic i mean so so so the blossoming of a rose
is a true ontological transformation so for me like general relativity never actually enters the picture there
yeah i'm i'm sure this is just to say it in another way right but like you know the nature of synchronizing
the clocks is to pin reality to the metric you know just as measuring space by the meter is to pin
reality to that dead end right exactly yes yeah in that way of course you know you can you can
fuse reality entirely right so i think it's a lot more challenging to try to understand
time space as this kind of mutually squishy this mutually relative kind of interplay but
you know it kind of seems to me like that's it's inside of consciousness already so you know of course
like trying to imagine time and space in these kind of terms because it's pinned to a dead thing is already
uh misleading
exactly yes yes so the oh by the way really happen they really take place in space
irrespective of your own motion yeah precisely because your perception of space is a reflection
of your own form but that form is nothing material
so it's not your it's not just your body i mean yeah
uh this is so brilliant um by the way this is a great example of what happens when political
conversations don't pervade
over the entire space here yeah the horizontal is interesting but the vertical is transcendental right
yeah yeah um so that example of linking simultaneity to the desire to synchronize clocks
is a brilliant example of what happens to perspective under the aegis of purposive agenda
right so effectively the desire to synchronize clocks becomes all consuming it's sort of like a hard-on in the mind
and then once once that rigid you know once that rigid point is established then we try to sort of
massage the rest of reality around it to not allow it to threaten that rigid point
um what was occurring to me uh right um renormalization is a feature of this in quantum physics that dirac despised
um and other people definitely was were like yeah if we're gonna have to do this renormalization thing
we are idiots and don't understand what's going on
which is you throw away a bunch of infinities in the beginning of the mathematical process
and then at the end you re-add them
which basically means like you have no idea what the fun is going on you just have a tool that allows
you to negotiate a mathematic space in order to produce results that are consistent and mechanically
implementable
yeah it's a great example of look the important thing is synchronizing clocks we don't want to know
what's actually going on right we just want to synchronize some clocks bro right again it's a tool
technology
yeah it's it's a technique it's method right um
and the method's useful but its usefulness is deceptive because then we think
oh well the method tells us what's going on no it doesn't um you threw away most of what's going
on to produce the method can we just keep that in mind as we proceed down this ever more slippery slope
it's that strange gravity again mm-hmm right it's also the thing that i was talking about earlier
where um humans want a familiar role they don't want to improvise they don't know what happens if
you do that right so the familiarity of the role you know establish a purpose establish a metric and then
sort of blur the rest of what's going on until the metric appears authoritative
this is one of the uh minefields of analytical cognition
right very useful for what it's useful for devastating if it pervades over the entire possibility space
and dominates it
um this is also why it's useful to maintain multiple purposive orientations in um analysis
yeah i love when george makes a certain specific sound before he begins expo explicating something
and i think he made it but even if he didn't the words he used were sufficient
when george goes you know my issue with relativity i'm like okay here we go
right let's go george has a ufo we're gonna get inside that fucker we're going to you know we're going
when when george has an issue with something insight is on the fucking menu
yeah well i mentioned recently how the plant in its growth
actually harmonizes light with gravity so you can see the interplay between light and gravity within
the body of a growing plant so so the plant itself is something like a like a polar coordinate system
because it exhibits a kind of polarity over time um in a way that i think is periodic so
yeah so that yeah that period is the true unit of measurement it's not something that you
superimpose over uh your perception of space and time yeah but it's hyperstitious
right yes yeah it's interesting how the the cycles of the environment the universe the cosmos whatever
you know they the plant finds resonance with those cycles right and in doing so becomes
something very interesting that was not before you know the angel the um i don't know i don't know if
that resonates with anything
say it again please
well
you know um i haven't mapped out this entire ontology but
here's something that's you know and of course that would be silly um here's something that's
interesting to me though
you know what is experiences the influences the forces of the universe you know whatever we may take
that to be and the the cycles of the sun and the water you know to to speak really in very kind of dead
terms very uh normative terms here and the availability you know of the energy and the material
those have a rhythm right and the rhythm implies time
so as the world strikes its rhythm the plant emerges as a sort of resonance with that time and those
elements and forces right the plant is a perspective on the availabilities and the influences
it's right yeah and that resonance opens the possibility of interaction and relation
yeah it also oh go ahead
it is saying the uh the mornis the becoming you know the angel you started to say the angel yeah i
want to hear about that yeah it's fascinating huh no no say say what you're going to say about the angel
i mean there's a you know i don't i don't have anything to say except that there's a spirit behind
all this yeah you know there's a you know um matter does not precede existence it's the other way around
right uh there's something that's been missing in the conversation which i'll get to in a moment
i'm very curious about the feature of your consciousness corn fed
that made the apology you know i haven't worked out the entire ontology
because i i'd really like to talk to that person what's his job what's his job to apologize for the
incompleteness of your cognition is that his job well there's a thing behind that okay and here is it um
um so you know i've i've had a few conversations with george here and i've listened i think to
most of your conversations that have been posted online as well right and you know um
i would consider myself the kind of person who's had a lot of training in the normative scientific
perspective oh okay and um you know my training has been diverse enough that it you know i don't
tend to view science from the kind of scientism lens that most people get it you know i've participated
in research and kind of seen the you know science itself um you know it's an effort to pin down things
it's you know i kind of mentioned the uh the explanation maybe last time we spoke which is a
scientist tries to explain something very simple and very complex terms right very detailed
but then you know i i think good scientists or smart scientists recognize the interplay and the
kind of loose ends and the limitations and and the vast space that exists beyond that right it's
yeah it's to um you know it's to try to characterize whatever you can pin down and of course that's the
underwhelming minority of anything and that itself is kind of a limiting approach and perspective you
know blah blah blah whatever so um you know i'm very well versed in all that so what if i may be so
bold um what um has been really interesting to me is to get better and better views of george's
ontology and some of the um the background of the underpinning you know the metaphysical nature of
it to and you know i i think in a lot of ways what it does is it turns that scientific perspective
inside out right it approaches it from at least the other direction if not uh more directions if
directions is even a thing that you could say it more like infuses an understanding of reality from
within it as opposed to anchoring it and then weighing it you know um so i say that because
i'd been looking forward to at some point you know a conversation where i could just kind of map out that
whole thing as you know again using weird words as best as i understand it and kind of see if that
you know matches what george has been working to convey or not right but um i you know because i'm
mindful that you know i i don't think that i have it all yet nor would i ever nor could one
you know who is uh not entirely sophomoric you know ever proclaimed to the uh the interesting thing
about what you said of course is the fact that reality you know whatever this experience is
you know will always escape uh subsune and expand beyond however we might ascribe it
so you know i have to use words but i don't pretend to say oh i got it all
as soon as you do right like you're looking for the margins where it creeps out and you're looking for
the nuance and the detail underneath what you said i mean that's the beauty of being alive so you know
that's my response from several angles so one of the reasons why i asked um in a kind of in a somewhat
snide way right why don't we talk to this guy who's this guy who said that um is that there are
features of our cognition and i think they're both natural and troubling
that
are
they are
they are critical satellites
over our speech
and they are not speakers they are not me they're not you
they are a sort of restrictive intelligence that's a simulation
of how people who aren't here with us right now might take this wrong
right and so when you said like well i haven't done all the whole ontology thing
i was curious because i have features like this myself and sometimes those features become so
prevalent that i actually lose
in my apology for the incompleteness or for the non-universality of what i'm about to say or for the
unpolitical correctness of my next few words i actually lose the thing that i was trying to say
because my attention becomes consumed by this critical satellite voice thing
which simulates the possible negative attention of conceivable others
usually who are not present here with me
and how what i'm about to say next could be misinterpreted
and it's ironic when that concern actually obviates my capacity to say what the i was thinking
right it just takes over the whole it takes over the the production to the degree that i lose
the insight i was about to speak this happened to me in a conversation the other night
um so i just marvel at that uh feature of our i think it's a form of social cognition we simulate
there are features of our minds that simulate the observation of putative or nominative nominal others
and i wouldn't want it to go away but if it becomes too prevalent it can be quite problematical
yeah you know um i try to reach into the minds of the people i'm with to try to understand and ward off
problems and of course that's always going to be to some degree misplaced and at the same time too
other minds reach into me you know i i contain multiple multitudes as we all do and i'm not even
convinced any of them are mine which is uh you know at least uh very few if any of them are even mine
in the first place but you know yeah i mean yeah i'm i'm aware of the propensity and i always uh you
know appreciate uh blind spots being brought forward to me
well so i wouldn't always about anything but you know see there it is yeah what's that what's that
a joke uh it's all kind of a joke no uh yeah but that was really funny because then you did the exact
thing we were talking about right at the end yeah yeah i'm yeah and i i cherish this uh ability to kind
of question even while stating i think that's important for me anyway yeah um
okay so the other thing that was in the background that i i managed to bookmark i think
was um the way we've been talking about the plant
as a resonance um
i think or as resonant or you know
uh hyperstitious harmonization of waves landing locally as and in the plant i think we should also
just note that
there isn't anything that isn't the plan
we are disinclined to think this way
the trouble with what with them exactly right um there isn't anything that isn't the plan there
isn't anything that isn't the tree um and it's a problem in our perspective
um neither you nor the ground beneath you are moving
um your movement is all movements
we now this is a universalization of a property which humans naturally and often intelligently resist
that's that's me doing the thing we're just talking about um
when i say there isn't anything that isn't the plant
what i'm trying to do is amend what i see as a dangerous as a conceivably dangerous misconception
which is that the plant is a separate thing
and if the moment of singularity in my dandelion toy has precedence over distinction
then the plant is not a separate thing
all right if everything collapses to god spec and then re-expands to the appearance of distinction
catastrophically more frequent times per second or you know picosecond or whatever
then most of the time everything is one thing in a tiny part of the time it appears distinct
right and so there isn't anything that isn't the plant there isn't anything that isn't the dog
that isn't the nail that isn't the hammer there aren't any things
yeah i think it probably stems from the act of pointing or ostention because
the treatment of the plant in taxonomy is similar to how you know general relativity treats space
so right you know you might perceive the plant and then use your index finger to point
around certain regions and then attribute certain names to those regions
i've watched you do that specific thing in meatspace
right but digital thinking is obviously bound up with tool use which is why general relativity is
essentially just a computer or a tool but i think taxonomy is quite similar so it basically stems from the left
hemisphere at some level it does it was probably bound up with our evolution so the evolution of our fingers
and a certain form of cognition uh that was probably pertinent to hunting uh go together in our in our
in our minds so what we perceive is you know the proliferation of technology in modern science is really just
downstream from that kind of connection um so yeah to see a plant and then to immediately decompose it into
like an assemblage of parts with names is really just an extension of the same kind of thinking in our
ancestry and in in the deep past that enabled us to you know hunt animals but it's it's a limited domain
it's not you know an ontology that was a very ostentatious lecture on ostention
i have a you know i i don't i don't know if you would like to go somewhere with this xerxes but uh
i had a question kind of related to this even in fact a question and a half
i know right my feelers are all charged up i'm starting to feel rigid i'm getting rigid over here
my tongue's getting hard let's go good yeah all right the uh you know you gotta
nurture the desire before the fulfillment but uh okay actually you should probably avoid the fulfillment
yeah indeed good call stay rigid bro among other things keep that pointer
you know this this question was first inspired i think by your uh your guys's chat posted online
about ontology and um you know by the way which got mad views why were they angry
what are you an autistic i know you know uh jd put out that quiz and i tested you know nowhere near
it but i still wonder a little bit but anyway um you know so i think we've gravitated around this
this uh way of understanding life um quite a bit you know over our calls over our chats
you know the way that i often approach it and describe it is that you know i'm not you know as
we try to disarm ourselves of the trouble of that and what and the pointing of the staff
you know um okay i want to just yeah i want to be really clear about something briefly can you hold
your thought for a sec sure please um i don't want to get rid of ostention or digital thought
i want the precedence i want to train us to the precedence of unity first so that we have that
option go ahead yeah agreed like you know they they are uh in a way poles of each other
you know they're they're not uh you know what so we cut off our awareness of unity and so
to compensate we're gonna cut off our awareness of specificity instead you know that's right
no that's the same problem it's the one wing bird syndrome go ahead you know i haven't come back to
your but i'm sure you know i'm sure he just kind of approaches this ad nauseum sure but come back to
your thought that i interrupted you around please oh yeah yeah um so the interesting thing you know as
i think about it i often describe you know corn fed the human you know and again like saying the human
you know that's ridiculous you know whatever this experience is it is the intersection and convening
space space of you know untold tens of thousands of years of sunlight of you know creatures and their
energies and the molecules and the beings they constructed throughout the aeons it's it's at the
you know some kind of end of the you know co-development of some not just human species but like
all of my gut microbiome the yeast that lives on my skin and even beyond that of course it it pervades
all the way into all of my distal extension the murmurings of my mouth that fly through the ether on
these electrons and strike your eardrums that is me also but it's also not just me of course it's you
have to hear it for me to be a thing at all right and in so many ways you know i'm just i'm i'm kind of
you know at this convening space in one way there's some kind of flesh body you know in this convening
space in one way there's some kind of spirit still and so um you guys were talking about the true nature of
environments and i i think this again just ties back to our conversations in multiple ways so far
which is why i wanted to raise it now which is the sense first off that the plant its center
you know somehow is its entire context like you were describing how you can't get up and move around
you know per se so you know what's interesting you know if we're to and i'm not saying isolate it you
know i i really hate this kind of language but if we're to take an environment then it occurs to me that
the the rhythm of that environment you know time with that environment produces it produces is not
even the right word but that that relationship manifests the complex dynamic of interplay which
is the plant right but you know this question is about the center you know to tee this up for george
because what's interesting to me is while the environment complexifies and the spirit is evoked
into this life form of the plant what's interesting is the way it calve the environment calves like an iceberg
like a you know a glacier calves icebergs the environment calves animals
so it calves a center that can run around right so you know um i'm not certain i've ever really
understood what you meant george in the sense of like how does this center relate to these themes of
the environment and the plant and the animal like you know it's obvious what it is in the animal but
the center of perception in the animal of course comes from this so then i'm curious you know to see
the perception of the environment or of the plant and then the second half question you know this is um
this really you know this is more political probably but then if we you know whatever we are are calved
of our environment and you look at the modern human and you think about the environment that calved that
you know that nexus of beings that's an interesting question too you know that's not you know that's a
uh that's a very different thing anyway just about the center versus the non-centeredness of the
environment or the plant if that makes any sort of sense as a question
yeah i mean to begin with the distinction between an organism and its environment i think is somewhat
artificial um exactly can i ask you something right there yeah what about the distinction between
organism and mechanism well yeah so i mean the cartesian notion that animals are machines i think is
totally dubious but i see the i see the evolution of technology by analogy with the evolution of living
systems which i think is a natural consequence of regarding evolution as a form of feedback in the first
place so what takes place in cognition is distinguished from what appears in the external world
merely by virtue of something like feedback in my view so the invisibility of thought
thought takes place not because thought is insubstantial or unreal but because
requisite to the manifestation of anything is this kind of feedback mechanism so through feedback more
beings can appear within the visual field i think but what ordinarily takes place in you know waking
consciousness consciousness is solidified by some kind of deeper you know substrate within the body
but what i mean when i say the body is something different from the physical form
does that make any sense so basically the evolution of technology is an extension of human cognition but
i would question from there the distinction between cognition and the form of the body i think that
i think that cognition or perception in general and the form of the body are intimately linked they form a
single continuum so yeah so therefore you know the evolution of technology is is intelligible in terms
of the same kinds of laws that might describe you know the evolution of a living system does that make sense or is that incoherent
i'm reminded of the concretization and the armoring stuff that we talked about in the past yeah right
yeah i think it's helpful for me when i when i first heard that it it's you know it took a while of thinking
about it but i think it's helpful to understand that as an extension of the you know the mental and
particularly the tool you know left brain aspect of humanity as opposed to being some more deeper
fundamental aspect of reality it just accords to the same laws as you said i think but you know check
me if i'm wrong and i i just put that out there for what it's worth what was your original question cornfed
just relating back to you know okay so the animal has the center of perception you know
right yes yes the the plant and the environment you know don't and so you know like i i love this and
you know i'm kind of like um you know i i think i've long kind of pondered the way that the environment
feels and senses you know but yeah that's the question really
right yeah so in my view a plant effectively loses itself in matter so in my view a plant really
lacks a definite center so its living principle stems not from some kind of discrete center within
its body i think that development takes place later so in the animal kingdom i think you begin to
see something like a center form within the material mantle or you know physical sheath the morphology of
the body but that center moves around as opposed to being stationary so the evolution of a living
system like a species or speciation i think can be described in in one sense in terms of the motion of
that center yeah yeah one thing that occurs to me and you know maybe this is just um by way of analogy
right but like you know it always kind of blew my mind we think a lot about eating right it's kind of a
natural thing and our conception of eating is that we take things and put them inside of us you know again
you know these are poor definitions right us inside and and that's the interesting part you know it's
interesting to learn about echinoderms like starfish that they take their stomach and put it outside of
them wasps oh yeah they don't have a digestive system internally they eject they have a bag that sort of
contains all the juices and they just bite it and inject that into what they're biting and then it
dissolves it and they suck it back up oh wow yeah i didn't realize that about wasps but then you know
very closely related to us meat bodies you know again us is the wrong word there is fungus and what's
really interesting about fungus is you know if we're one way in the echinoderm and the wasp are about
halfway to the other side you know they're on the line then the fungus is fully on the other side of
the line where its digestion is external it it simply secretes into the environment and allows nutrients
to come back in you know whatever in means because now it's made the environment itself its stomach
and uh you know i know worms are discrete beings but i often there's this great poem i need to find
it again and write it down but it's about the sensuousness you know today you and i are tasting the
chocolate it fills our mouths you know we taste the pork and we taste its sweetness and its texture
and it's important to remember that one day we will be tasted by the environment
the tongues of the earth will consume us and the taster will be tasted right
yeah i tend to play with the idea that the tree of life could be reformulated in terms of
the motion of something like that center as opposed to as opposed to constructing some kind of genetic tree
you could imagine a tree of life in which the form of an organism is understood or classified
according to the emphasis of certain regions which i think takes place in a discrete way
yeah so like like apparently apparently unrelated organisms might exhibit certain features that
correspond to the motion of that center so there would be a hidden kind of connection between them
which um might not be apparent in time but yeah that's sort of what i suspect
i mean it'd be hard to do worse than the current kind of conception of taxonomy in the tree of life
i think that would be pretty good
but i can see what you were saying earlier though about how that center was related to perception or
you know the emergence of qualia beginning roughly with the animal kingdom um as opposed to the plant
kingdom but was that where you were trying to go with that yeah it is but you know what um
i i you know i'm gonna say it this way although i'm i'm always open to revising but i refuse to believe
that the the the plants and the environments and maybe even the elements don't also perceive in their
own way right and what's what's really interesting or at least entertaining to me is um trying to develop
that mode right um and it's interesting it just relates back to okay well the the plant itself is the
the resonant embodiment of the cycles of the environment and its affordances including material um
and so
so it's interesting to get into the seat of a tree and feel the world from that perspective
nourishing resonant perspective exactly yeah
yeah that was what i meant by resonance earlier yeah so yeah basically plants yeah plants probably have
a kind of a kind of inner life but its nature i think is quite different from mine
i think i sent you some information recently about plant consciousness and
some of these like um some of these relationships between
the metamorphosis of a plant and the structure of a nervous system or brain
so yeah like i tend to regard plants as a kind of uh temporally distributed brain as opposed to a
spatially concentrated brain so what takes place in the growth of a plant is something like
a nervous system but it never incarnates as an object but that doesn't mean that it isn't present
yeah you don't need a brain for perception yeah it it literally um develops into i'll use the word
reaches but it reaches into the veins of sunlight you know reaches into the veins of water and nutrients
just as our nervous system reaches into our distal limbs and their sensations right in the material world
and there's non-material considerations too but you know it's just the easiest one
right yeah
now yeah with the introduction of the center i think begins this kind of limitation as i mentioned so
i mentioned that qualia arise through limitation or through suppression so the suppression of real action
um which is what i think plants essentially lack so plants essentially lack the capacity to inhibit
certain uh influences right in ways that become possible through the circumference and center of
an animal body which i think is yeah the genesis of qualia what we usually mean by perception yeah
um because it like it functions like a mirror so the circumference of the body is reflecting
influences in the external world in a way that gives rise to certain sensations
so plants just lack that mirror
if what i was saying earlier
is
i don't want to use the word true because that's not what i mean if what i was saying earlier
in the sense that there is nothing which is not the plan
and what you have said here is not precisely false
it might have local precedence
and yet not be
primordial
can you see what i mean
yeah no precisely yeah okay yeah so i would interpret what you said there
in terms of the idea that the wholeness of the plant reflects something about the entire cosmos so
the form of the plant precisely because it lacks a definite center or a kind of mirror that arises in
the animal kingdom embodies as a kind of uh sigil or uh like an like an object
something about the totality of space
that's how i tend to think of it so i tend to see plants as like physical instruments you can actually
perceive something about the interaction between light and gravity within uh within plants so
yeah so i don't i don't necessarily see a conflict maybe you can clarify that um
it's not a conflict sorry about the background noise for a second
uh it's not necessarily a conflict it's just that um
why what was my motivation in making that statement
um locality matters
and at different registers of form and being
there are unique features of participation and intimacy and relation and sensing and development
yes yes all that's true um
um
but it's very easy to lose sight of the unity
which i feel has actual precedence in fact i would argue
that were we entirely disconnected from it it's impossible we would not be having conversations or have
in our minds
right upscale from our desire to speak or question or participate together
is in fact this unity
hmm
so i just ask that we we try to remember
without that unity our desire to understand would disappear
and also um very importantly
if unity were to truly pervade over our awareness in a way it was explicit intelligibility disappears
yep
intelligibility is the making of parts
and the comparison and the metaphorization and the analogies and the connotations and all of these things
and i don't want people to get the idea
um that i'm anti left hemispheric quote unquote
silly um simplification because the hemispheres always work together
accepting people that don't you know are missing one or something
or have them physically divided
not just people flies have hemispheric
collateralization
what i'm concerned about
is the propensity for humans to be captured
by the tip of the pinky
and pursue its dominance overall phenomenon
at any cost at all costs
um
that's what concerns me
intelligibility should not rule it should serve
and what it should serve
is the communal concerns of unity
the recognition that there's just one child
in every being and form we see is its face
and that's our face
and it's the face of origin
it's the face of our ancestors and our progeny
we should bear this in mind
really before speaking but certainly before action
um
there's something else that is bugging me
the humans with their cognition their representational consciousness
they are doing something important
in time space
it's got
it um
golden
but they can become a misguided column
and they do on moss on our world at our time in our time
that deeply concerns me so
yeah i'm sorry that
the representation cognition for whatever reason could you repeat that i think i heard something about a golem but
i didn't hear the rest
yeah
so am i can you hear me clearly now
yeah it's somehow a little better although it's showing me that
your connection may not be fantastic but yeah i can hear you now
let me try to improve that
how's this
yeah good so far
okay so
all right
let me rephrase what i said before
um
i'm a lover of intellect
and i lean heavily into it because i'm good at it
much like another guy i know in this conversation
um
and i don't want to give the appearance that i'm anti-intelligence or even that i'm anti-representational
cognition
the humans are not merely a misguided golem
going mad into techne at the cost of everything important
but they can certainly become that way and they are that way as a group in our time
they're doing something important to time space important to existence important to being
when they do this cognizing thing
they're doing a thing that's similar to what the fungi do
right they're breaking down and reforging they're doing this thing
they're doing a symbiotic thing
in a layer of existence that we're unaware of
um so it's really important that we're representational cognitive it's not just a bad thing
the problem is how we've been captured as a species
and that i'm very very concerned about as a human and as a being and as an organism
and as a participant in in this environment here localization is important it matters
i was in a conversation the other day and they were like yeah you know everything dies don't worry
about it like yeah that i love this world i believe in her i am her child i will protect her to the
you know extent of my abilities
right the idea that ah life's resilient don't matter if the humans kill everything up it'll grow back
no would i say the same thing about my son or my own hand
right no i wouldn't um i have skin in the game and even as a bodhisattva or something like this i still
have skin in the game um so these are just some things i wanted to make clear because just like
before right there was a there was an overriding critical consciousness in me that thought you know
people could take you wrong they could think you hated intellect and intelligence and the left
hemisphere and all of these things i just wanted to be clear no that's not the case what i'm
opposed to and what deeply concerns me is the capture of that into mechanization which i don't see
as the same thing as nature mechanization looks to me like a terrifying symptom
of a problem in the relational awareness and cognition in my species
it's not that we should never make devices objects or machines but we should have
a pervasive corrective intelligence that is intimately involved in the decision making around how this gets
done when it gets done and what the limits and very you know like boundaries are so yeah that's just
that's just me um making a long complex critical apology um to my own thought well i um you know i i
love that and you know it's brilliant i think that um you know this manifestation of these humans
this manifestation of our intellect is an insult to our potential yes that's oh so beautifully said
well yeah this is us taking a crap in the hand of our intelligence and then you know then going to
shake hands with all other beings yeah it's terrible it's it prides itself in its myopia you know and
and what we're capable of with our intellect but even more so our whole mind you know is um
you know well it's many factors beyond this but i i kind of wonder if this um this gets back to that
other half question i remember from the conversation that you posted online uh between you and george um
um you know i think this just may be a good entree is um you know environments themselves kind of calve
and create their animals right and um something similar is happening in the mind yep of the universe
yeah go ahead yeah and you know uh so and again this this becomes more horizontal more narrow
and you know it's not political but you know it's kind of more it's also political yeah everything
you know anyway yeah i won't quote political phrases for politics but uh you know the
the interesting thing is so the the creatures that we see the animals and also the plants they are
much more or as much at least of a reflection of their environments as anything right
mm-hmm you know in that kind of um the the deep interrelational way that everything is
only a reflection of everything else because of the forces and the factors and the
you know um the nature no it's because there's no other thing yep all right it's not a reflection
um go ahead oh yeah i mean it's you know for me to understand me alone is to cut off at least half of
my being right which is all the rest of it right you know so then you know i think maybe this has kind
of come up in terms of the beast in in the past so where you know where my mind went when i heard you
guys discussing this aspect is not only that environments calve their animals right but the
the animals themselves are the reflection of their origin you know they're where they came from and
what's really interesting is that we do have this distal history that us humans especially when we are in a better
state you know i think a lot of the time these calls go to what are we going to do you know with
without actually acknowledging that we are the expression of the function of our environment right
so we're we're the tail on the dog we're not the head so what's really um you know the the nature of
that question to me is that there was a time when the healthy and integrated environment created the
healthy and integrated human where the environment calved animals that were um strong and natural and
whatever you know and and and those human animals of course then returned the service to the environment
creating a stronger you know there there's an ecological niche a way it all interplays and all this so
where this went for me is that it's notable that the environment that has calved these humans
is the 10 000 you know 100 000 year old dead sunlight
and the the technes and the machines right
and so you know what's going on there okay guys can i say something about that briefly yeah of course
so imagine imagine that you're a living planet okay and you have a problem
you have a really weird problem and your weird problem is um well i'm gonna even go a little weirder
here and say like you're an ovum in the womb of a star
so occasionally you get fertilized right the sun and the other planets and the local situation
select suitors for you they penetrate you and organisms come out
i'm just just an as if story however this story we think of a cinderella i know that chick
she used to just be ash an ash girl and then you know she's got a blue dress and she's got
like a sister with a bright red dress it's just her with a rainbow dress with a great big belt buckle and
another sister with golden rings and a prince comes there's going to be a ball
right and she wants to you know she wants a nice dress but she's just covered in ashes
she's a chimney sweep slave girl
yeah this reminds me of somebody i know in any case
so you're a girl like this and you get your blue dress you meet the prince and he brings what
amino acids in ice a crystal slipper what are you kidding me crystal slipper
really yeah crystal slipper and he slips into your environment so that he doesn't wipe out
the organisms that you've already established
right he comes in at an angle obliquely rather than directly so it doesn't produce an explosion
but you got a problem and your problem is that every once in a while something comes in directly
and that thing basically causes you to have a stroke
because it wipes out the established diversity
which is in fact what you think see and feel with at least in the organismal register
so you keep having these strokes right
it's a lot like being raped you get violated by these large stony objects from the sky
they're not there to fertilize you they're going to wipe out the entire history of what
you manage to establish and sustain over the previous aeon
so you got a problem and you notice that one of the creatures that has arisen has the capacity to throw stones
to project objects into space-time
and so in this fairy tale you endow them with the capacity for technique
in order to protect yourself and your future children from these penetration events
if they get really fascinated with projectiles and guns missiles and things
they can deflect
to protect those bad suitors and you won't have to have strokes anymore
and with the same irony of fairy tales you later discover that they're killing each other and
everything with the skill you were hoping they were they would use intelligently to protect you
obviously because they are your children and they would recognize you but they forgot about all that
because the guns are really fascinating
so there's there's a cautionary tale there's a myth
there's a an image of a possible situation
that i find compelling and that toymaker you know showed me as an as-if story although the cinderella
thing that's ridiculous that's a story from before there were humans that's not a human story that's our planet story
that's a children's version of the planet story
um
so yeah this is a useful toy
i'm not claiming it's the case but the living world would become concerned about stuff that snuffed
her biodiversity over time
i think you know presuming that she has such concerns
and she might take one of her one of her children and adapt them to interfere with that
and that could go wildly wrong in the same way that greek myths often do
right you try to avoid something it's the um it's the oedipus problem right you're going to kill your
dad marry your mom okay well i'm just going to leave my whole country so that that won't happen and then
you know do everything you can when you become hyper focused on avoiding something
what happens well there's a problem there it's uh that hyper focus thing tends to generate what it's
trying to avoid welcome to my life
yeah i'm reminded of light fixation of the drunk you know um yeah this is a it's a brilliant analogy
you put forward the it was given to me it was given that's not mine although i did the translation
i get i get the uh i get the credit for that yeah i think i've told george before maybe it was on one
of these calls to everybody but you know taking ownership over thoughts is the most pompous thing i
think yeah we should be careful yeah yeah that's true but that's not that's not the only truth we're so
baio um i can't remember his proper pronunciation of his last name i just want to read something into the
meeting here about that briefly unless you have a pressing um thing to share
no do go ahead so baio akomalfi akomalafe akomalafe i've never tried to pronounce it before
he's a very wise person who writes sometime on faith sometimes on facebook and i'm gonna say i'm
gonna just read what he wrote that i saw today i have often read letters from people polite folks
who felt that my time was so precious that their persistence in writing me betrayed their inherent
selfishness as if being selfish disqualified them from reaching out or from participating in a
complicated world most of us seem to have learned to carry that civilizational burden as capably as my
textual friends have these days as with aeons before it would seem the self is the obstacle to
get rid of the pernicious thing the dark ingredient the poison everyone hopes to move from that diseased
prefix ego to the more innocent eco it would explain the ongoing romanticization of the communal and the
proliferation and idealization of communities i confess that i too have probably contributed
to a counter cultural milieu that curses at the anthropocene and its characteristic anthropocentrality
one that is not very practiced at moving through the nuances of such a critique
but to my meandering point i cannot reject selfishness i used to do that trained in my teenage years
by revivalist american frontier theologies from the 19th century i learned to equate selfishness with
sin a martia the greek word in the bible that means missing the mark i imagined selfishness to be
the opposite of love ego had to go if god had to be got but i cannot reject the ego either in all attempts
to reduce it to some patho ontology seem only to reinstate its performed centrality perhaps then what
we name as selfishness is an a communal tension within the communal that distresses its claims to
wholeness completion and fullness perhaps the ego is how the eco researches itself perhaps separation
is how entanglement comes to understand itself perhaps there are tensions within fidelity perhaps
there are weird minor gestures in purity perhaps the ants need the zombie ant to selfishly chart its
cordyceps fungal cartography away from the community perhaps the post-humanist needs the humanist to
think well about the world the problem here doesn't seem to be with selfishness or the ego but with where
it is located the procrustean surgical operation that transplants an entire biopolitical agonistic zoetic
field of multi-species matterings into the isolated in devout individuality of the citizen subject
compels us to perform our lives as if we were behind the wheels as if we were the ones living our lives
as if our lives are not already threaded through with other lives and deaths but we are not selves any
more than the wave is the entire ocean self cannot be held by an individual self is not human not
exclusively so the self is a mangled sweltering rampaging murmuring whispering trace of tensions
in their entrainments and becoming with the world selfishness is not disqualifying selfishness is
not sin or instead it is only sin in the sense that everything else is because everything misses the
mark and that my friends textual and otherwise is a beautiful thing indeed
it's a beautiful thing indeed we agree about that sing it brother
remind us which brings me to a point i will share before perhaps departing
i come to understand that minds are not for thinking they are for doing something similar to what we do here
today i think together for each other and for all beings um so actually there are two points the first
is that the humans are not inclined to think that the waves that inform the structure of the plant arrive
from the future as well as the past but i do i know for myself the time is all of time is a body and that
every moment there is more future and more past there is an end there is a boundary but it's not the end of
time it's simply the current extent of the dandelions pulse so yeah waves arrive from the future and
inform what we do and think and are and we don't think this way but the other thing i was going to
say is that it occurred to me that one of the things we do is we become a man noetic together we serve
to keep alive memory and intelligence and the beauty of rediscovering and unforgetting together
and so in a sense we are each other's memories speaking as though separate and distinct in bodies
and time and without selves this would not work so you know i try to get out of my own way too and
i try to take the darren off the presentation and that's often useful but it's not a thing that should
be made explicit which is i think what bea was trying to remind us about we think it's a good idea
to dissolve the ego unfortunately it's an incomplete virtue at best we are each other's memories we remind
one another of virtue and insight and recognition and reunion and communion and i love that that we can
do this together so i'm very grateful for this time today i'm going to take my leave here and look
forward with great enthusiasm to posting this on my channel i'll be very selfish about that i want i
want that recording as soon as it's available it sounds good i'll put my name on it and everything
yeah you want it and by getting it you cast it out to all the years of the world but also i unfortunately
fulfill the desire that i that i'd be better off having sustained thank you guys i love you you're
amazing i'll see you again very soon i hope all right darren take care see you soon thank you peace for
peace for now
