Hello, everybody.
Welcome.
Think for a moment.
If you can find one, a moment or a thought, think for a moment about a song that you really
enjoy these days, if there is one.
And if not, think back to one that was life-changing in some way for you or, as we hilariously
say in English, seminal.
I'm going to leave the common associations of the morphemes in that word aside.
And as you notice, by mentioning that, I am doing the opposite of what I am saying.
If I say, for example, our guest tonight is so famous that they need no introduction,
what's going to happen next?
If I say, I'm not going to speak to you tonight about structure and the violation of structure
and the kinds of violation of structure that are most compelling.
Think back to a song that captivates you.
And the reason that I'm on that topic at the moment is I was just listening to one.
And if you want to know which one, right now I have exactly two songs on my phone.
One of them is the beatbox version of Window by Big Man, one word.
And the other is From the Arrow Loop by Ronald Jankies, who I really dig.
It's the song Window that is the origin of my talk today.
Watching a bird that fly walked across the surface of the water for a good 200 feet.
So it's not flying and it's not walking.
And this is the kind of thing that I'm fucking talking about here.
I tend to have a strong resistance for popular things.
Pop music these days mostly is terrible garbage.
I mean just fucking horrible in my view and every aging population goes through something
resembling this apparently where they say, you know, well the music of my youth was really
good music and this music these young people are listening to today is brain wrecking like
mind destroying terribleness.
And they're not always right.
But there are a few things I feel more righteous about than the proposition popular music today
is shit.
I mean just terrible.
I have never been fond of the rap form.
Granted that there are unique artists.
Easy go to there would be Aesop Rocks.
There are unique artists who can use the form brilliantly or even wreck the form brilliantly.
And part of what I want you to think about when you think about a song that really changed
your life or you want to just listen to that thing over and over and over again.
I remember seeing a complaint somewhere could have been Cora or Reddit Craigslist or somebody
said that one of their neighbors was playing Wake Me Up Inside which might not be the actual
title of the song but is rather the name of the words in the chorus, Evanescence with
Lincoln Park I think made this tune and it's a really good song.
I fucking love that song.
But it's not really good blasted out to the world through the walls into your neighbors.
There's nothing that's good enough for that.
That quickly becomes a feeling of violation for the bystanders and not the good kind and
I'm going to get to that topic.
So I want you to think back to a song that really got to you and think about the hooks
in the song.
A particular vocal technique that you never heard before.
Tori Amos' first album has examples of this in, the album's called Little Earthquakes
what is the song that I most love.
It's the one where she complains about evil people in Christian schools and so forth.
A boy who was cruel to her but she slept with him anyway, this kind of thing.
And also, it's not just her voice in that song, it's some of the things she says and
how she says them that are so trippy.
You know the fact that you can make me come doesn't make you Jesus, you're not supposed
to say that in music.
A rapper might because in some ways rap is about violating expectation and language and
this is what I'm actually talking about.
So the first time I heard Windo, a very intelligent close friend of mine who I will call Mr.
S posted it on his Facebook page and what he posted was another beatboxer listening
to Big Man doing a piece of Windo which by the way is him beatboxing a song he wrote
as a song.
So he's beatboxing himself which is also a cool thing.
I don't pay a lot of attention to beatboxing and to be quite frank, my life has been so
dire that I actually stopped listening to music and I'm a musician.
I sold my musical instruments, I stopped making music, I stopped listening to music
and then every once in a while I'd come back and mess around with a guitar sound which
is my original instrument, well actually my original instrument is voice.
So yeah there was for a long long time there was precisely zero music in my life and only
recently have I started listening to and thinking musically again and I have a pretty
good buffer against pop shit and earworms and stuff.
It's the same kind of a buffer that I used to buffer out mimetic garbage or contagious
pathologies in the infosphere and memes and things.
I've got a strong buffer against stuff that captures huge portions, huge populations in
general but somehow when I heard this tune, Windo, and it's pretty poppy.
It's not rap but it's pop.
The vocal melody and the methods of the vocal modulation in the song are poppy and they
also owe some originary resemblance to early vocal tuning devices which I thought were
horrifying.
When I first heard that I just thought fuck me running down a mountainside while I'm
on fire.
I hate this.
This is terrible for what it means to be human.
You can either sing or you can't and if you can't fixing that with a machine is a dumb
idea and a toxic one.
So when I really don't like something I tend to be pretty fucking serious about my dislike
of it.
I'm not gentle.
I try to be gentle with humans but not so much with ideas or technologies or behaviors.
So Windo really got to me and I immediately sent it to a couple of people which is also
extremely uncommon for me to do.
One of those people was my son.
And the other was a close friend who's about my son's age who lives in Pacoima, California.
Place made famous by one screen in the TV show Severance.
And the song totally got to me.
It got past my guard and I just wanted to hear it over and over again and I listened
to it probably eight times that night and did some research, found the whole tune instead
of the part that was in the clip I saw, showed it to my roommate who pooped it because what
he said was complex.
He was like, I totally recognize the talent in this.
I don't care about it at all.
As far as I'm concerned that just looks like showing off.
It's not actually music.
It looks like the wreckage of what would be a really great song to listen to.
Now at that point he didn't know that the artist was actually kind of playing with his
own music in a different way because he had written an actual song.
And a couple of other people that I showed it to, at least one or two other people said
something really similar.
I don't care about beatboxing, which is okay by me, no problem.
But I tend to really enjoy human creativity.
I don't necessarily love all the forms of it.
I've never really, I think I'm capable of it, but I never really understood opera.
And generally I cannot stand pop music circa past 15, 20 years.
Pop music from the 50s, 60s and 70s, mostly fucking amazing, 80s still pretty good, 90s
starts to go south.
And a catastrophe for the meaning of the word poetry in English ensues as the gun battle
rhythms and cadences of rap music begin to dominate spoken word.
That was, oh god, I can't even, a linguistic apocalypse, I mean an artistic apocalypse
for me.
Now I remember a kind of a hilarious Monty Python video montage that is meant to represent
orgasm, and it just shows a series of images.
I think it's in, god, there's a film, there's a fake art film that takes place in a garbage
dump.
And it's basically a French, a guy who thinks he's a revolutionary, opposing his one.
And an attractive woman played by Carol, what's her name, the primary female co-conspirator
in Monty Python.
Yeah, I can't recall her last name.
And she's sitting on a chair in a garbage dump holding, I mean the first time I think
she's just sitting there, the second time she's like holding a head of lettuce.
And there's this montage that's pretty ridiculously hilarious, part of which is supposed to represent
orgasm, and another part of which is just supposed to represent violence itself.
So you see this great big tall tower collapse, and then re-establish itself, and then a train
goes through a tunnel, right, come on.
And then all kinds of other things happen, jet airplanes are dropping bombs, which is
an analogy for rap music, right, dropping rhymes like bombs, dropping rhymes like bombs
unfriendly with your moms, you know, kind of thing, right.
And we're seeing a kind of a typical rap sentiment, instanced on a bumper sticker, on a car in
Stockton, something like, caution this car makes frequent stops at your mom's house.
Not as funny, and I think I got the phrasing not exactly right.
But, rap seems to be a lot about posturing, combat, rebellion,
and getting over on the culture that crushed your people, so like becoming a better version
of the crushing culture of cash hose and coke, guns and cars, and you know, pump it up.
And maybe that's a crude generalization or characterization, but the point I'm actually
trying to talk about here is the relationship between structure and violating it.
So there's all kinds of things that I want to say that I'm going to be really careful
around due to the very strange linguistic milieu in America 2024 around anything having to
do with binary gender and or the difference between what, penises and vaginas.
But there is this really crazy kind of cisgender trope set where the woman elicits excitement
in the male.
This tends to cause the male's intelligence to collapse toward one thing, not surprisingly
because a lot of blood flow, a lot of highly focused blood flow has to be going on in order
to forge an erection.
And it's kind of hilarious that there's this sense of the male being dominant in the sexual
act generally.
There's a trope-ish sense of this, which is trippy since, I mean I guess the whole idea
of who penetrates who is underlying this.
And it's a huge trope in rap music, not just a sexual trope, it's a dominance trope, right?
Like rap battles are, you know, whose blows landed most effectively over time and so forth.
And none of this do I claim to be an expert about, but what I'm trying to talk about here
is that is a peculiar kind of violation that is welcome.
And when I first heard the window, you know, I felt upset, I felt kind of violated, I felt
like this guy I've never met from Taiwan has seen into my soul in some way, that nobody's
supposed to be able to do that, right?
And I could make crude language about this and stuff.
That's not really going to help me a lot, so I want to skip over a lot of that.
But I remember in my early Facebook days, a female friend of mine posted, shared one
of my posts, and one of her friends, they apparently met through live journal.
One of her friends liked the post, and I clicked to see who that was.
And the visage that I saw, the face of the young woman who had liked my post, it absolutely
fascinated me and it terrified me.
It was as if her face had been composed to destroy me inside and out, like to just ruin
the possibility of my emotional, psychic, romantic sovereignty, just lay waste to that
shit.
I later made a joke that it was as if a young girl holding a tiny flower obliterated my
entire castle and just left it in a smoking rubble, and I've never had a phenomenon like
that before or after.
I've certainly felt strong affinity or attraction, but nothing like this, and it never went away.
It's eleven years later, I still feel that shit.
That's in my mind every day.
And in a way, this is the key to human romantic heroes, in a sense.
You're not supposed to be able to just completely capture my desire, awareness, intelligence,
whatever, creativity, the whole bundle.
And when we really are moved by art or nature, beauty or disaster, there's a piece of this
problem involved.
We've been holding a structure together, perhaps somewhat desperately.
Something or someone comes along and just fucking violates that shit, wrecks it.
And that's not the only way to think about it, it's not the only thing going on.
It's the feature of what is often going on that I'm concerned with and paying attention
to at the moment.
And I'm speaking in a way that's very personal to me.
I'm not trying to tell you what to think or feel or remember or anything like that.
Make your own stories, make your own memories, make your own images.
Think back, was there something or someone who just captured your attention and desire
so profoundly that it was almost as if you wanted it the way you want oxygen or food
or, you know, existence, survival?
And look, we're inundated with garbage, many of us, much of the time these days.
And that raises the noise for on beauty and desire, intelligence, insight and perspective.
Like the real stuff often dies on the sidelines, unacknowledged.
I remember a quote by Poe that's quite difficult to locate, where he says that if we're really
looking for prodigy we should ignore the famous, the literate, the world-moving historical
superstars.
And we should look, you know, to the lost writings and mental histories of those who
were crucified or, you know, garauded, hung at the gibbet or deposited in bedlam, by which
he means the insane asylum.
And I think what he's trying to say is the kind of thing that Tristan Zarza, if I'm pronouncing
his last name right, or Antonin Artaud particularly, would clearly agree with, madness, the outer
membrane of madness is the same membrane from which prodigy is born, the genius arises.
And that's what he's trying to say, that's what he's trying to say, that's what he's trying
to say.
There's an old folk song from the 60s, maybe the 70s.
What we think of as madness, can be understood as a transformation.
Of the normatively coherent structure, or not structure, it's not a membrane, I guess
it could be thought of that way.
Really it's a series of interpreters functions, and also asserter.
Asserter functions and interpreter functions, both.
And it's fairly weird that there would be this kind of back and forth going on in our
minds, moment to moment, day to day while we are awake.
As if we are engaged somehow, as if something in us is engaged in a conversation.
And also a series of transformative exchanges in consciousness where we are processing history,
vigilance, ambiguity, prediction, perception, identity, ego.
In shamanic traditions from perhaps South America and Europe, there is a practice called
recapitulation, which one uses to erase personal identity, because it's so expensive, the upkeep
on that shit is so expensive, that you'd almost always be better off without it.
You'd have so much energy to invest in perception, if you could just recover the energy that's
invested in maintaining those structured fictions around who I am and what matters and who did
what to whom, and the whole courtroom mind thing, war mind, rebel mind, all these things.
Very fucking expensive.
If you could for five minutes simply retrieve the perceptual, energetic, emotional and creative
energies that ordinarily get slaughtered there, you would see through the representational
facade foisted on you by human culture, and you would probably begin to remember or to
experience an amnoetic, an amnesis, an unforgetting, right, and means not or no or un, and amnesis
is the Greek word from which we in English get amnesia, inability to recall oneself.
Now one might suppose that according to what I just said, amnesia would naturally grant
the powers and opportunities whose praises I was recently singing, not so, at least not
usually so, probably not never true, but uncommonly true, and the reason is that, I suppose anyway,
one of the reasons is that the structure is still there, it's just not surfacing in consciousness.
It's still getting plenty of juice, in fact it might be getting more juice than usual,
it's just not surfacing in consciousness, and it's very interesting to notice that amnesia
is a protective feature of consciousness that emerges under conditions of sudden catastrophic
change or injury. I remember one afternoon I was walking around in the botanical gardens,
and as the sun began to set in the west, there was a, what I presume was a male hummingbird,
and in hummingbirds gender is pretty fucking explicit, I gotta tell you. The male was sitting at
top of a branch in the unique angled light of the setting sun, and his throat became this fire
of magenta on just like the brightest, iridescent magenta I've ever seen, and it seemed to pierce
the veil of reality. And most of us think reality is the stuff you can rely on, yeah,
kind of bullshit. Reality is the superficial, unstructured, highly structured array of expectations
that we participate in consciously while awake. It's not the truth. There is something like
the idea of, that is proposed by the word veridical, as in corresponding to things which
are actually the case. But unfortunately determining what is actually the case requires a conscious
participant, not just an observer or spectator. What do we got here? That's really interesting. So
these people, we have this idea of what is so much the case that all observers would agree.
There are no such situations. That is a concept.
What in us, what is it in us that aches for
being rendered into helpless, ecstatic efflorescence or collapse? The apparent power of the rigid
sexual member of the male in humans is eventually destroyed by the soft, receptive envelope
from whose body it was born. And so there's this really interesting interplay that I don't think we
should lose sight of in the face of all kinds of gender warping, bending, fuzzing, blurring
militancies that are common in specific cohorts and branches of the academy and media.
By all means, let us explore and let us do so creatively together, with and for each other in
authentic open-mindedness. But there's value in traditional understanding as well. And you
certainly want to protect certain ways of knowing. And here I'm thinking of things like
biology, psychology and medicine from incoherent invasive destructuring. But it's not my goal
here to defend familiar gender stereotypes or idiotypes, icons, etc. Rather, I'm trying to
talk about the profound ecstatic experience of being overcome, of collapsing, of the sudden
unexpected destruction of one's egoic, sexual, erotic, or philosophic, even religious local
sovereignty, right? Something comes along and just obliterates that. If I don't care what religion you
belong to, if you actually have an experience, a direct personal experience in consciousness of the
gods or goddesses or goddess to which the religions refer, you're going to be in bad trouble if you
think you can remain religious after that. It's not an easy thing because it obliterates the little
structured toys that we were previously familiar with and replaces them with something that cannot be
represented. It's unrepresentable. Now what will you do with your library of representations? That thing is on fire
from now on every time you return to it. Are you going to pull down burning books and try to read them? A variety of
forces have been obliterating our capacity to experience beauty, ecstasis, wonder, awe,
true enthusiasm. There's another important English word.
Perhaps it will come to me. And these are the forces of representation as it appears in film, television,
media, pornography, and perhaps most of all, advertising. You know, we hear noises from our
creators about valuing their advertisers. Who? I live right up on that corner. Ethan Kirkham.
That corner. Yes, it's true. Yeah, like 35 years, you. Yeah, I know where you live. What's your name? I'm
Darren. Nice to meet you. Sure thing. It's not bad. I'd prefer to be with the forest and some flowing
water and stuff. But as far as cities go, pretty good here. I expensive to survive here and unfriendly to older
people, generally speaking. Yeah. Nice to meet you, Tim. Good to know your name. Peace. I may later go back and
just mute that little segment where I announced the location of my home. Though I doubt it would be very difficult
to find me if anyone wanted to. Where was I? There's a, there's a word that means a certain kind of highly
charged, local enthusiasm that is personal. It's the kind that is associated with heroic.
Heroic concerns and perspectives. So funny the way my vocabulary works these days. Used to be, I'd have five or six words
at my easy disposal. Now I have to fight to get one. And occasionally, the one that I really want in the moment, I can't find it.
And it shows up much later. Let's see if I can pause until I find it, because I really want this word. That took a lot longer than I
was hoping. The word is exaltation. In this and the sense of the word is to be lifted completely beyond one's habitual station,
character, identity, limitations, and so forth, right, to be exalted in this way. And this is a problem with direct personal religious experience. Because, well, it should be obvious.
There are a whole bunch of dangers around megalomania, messianism, and so forth. And how are we to determine the veracity of such feelings when we have exited the entire structure of our
common human thought language, experience, knowledge, representational habits, and so forth, right? Exaltation is, in a sense, a devastation of the ordinary structures of consciousness and identity.
And the problem is, you know, surely, those unfortunate souls and their unfortunate victims, who execute what we call mass shootings, are either experiencing a kind of exaltation, a sort of negative messianism,
or they have reached a place of such desperation in consciousness, and particularly their experience of identity and meaningful role, that it becomes their intention to visit hellfire on, you know, the others, the world, everything.
There's an aspect of our psyche, that under the proper kinds of inflation and torment, literally wants to end, not just the world, it wants to end the universe.
So, you know, this afternoon, I was just listening to this song and thinking about also remembering the young woman who probably wrecked me for the rest of my life, I mean, at least theoretically, until someone comes along who can actually captivate my, what, my romantic
faculties, or senses.
Yeah, I don't know.
But I was thinking about these things, and I was thinking about how wonderful it is to have our preconceptions ruined in the kind of way that we were always hoping for.
This is the power of great literature.
I remember reading certain sentences by brilliant authors and just thinking like, I didn't know that was even possible to, like, you can't say that.
You're not, there's the sense of the truly amazingly creative of it rebelling against and violating what is supposed to be possible, or what is allowed, or what is common, what is familiar.
And that violation is really what makes it brilliant and beautiful, and particularly the violation of our commonplace expectations.
So, I wanted to just sing a little pay in to all of those features of our experience that wrecked the expected, the ordinary, the familiar.
In such a way as hopefully to establish a whole new world of possibility in thought and experience and creative play.
We really need to have the experience of playing creatively together as adults.
You know, we are concerned if we are getting the right kinds of nutrition and sleep and so forth.
Those things don't help us much if every waking day is consignment to a familiar prison that looks just the same as the thousand days before it.
I remember seeing a sort of filmic, I'm not extremely fond of hyperviolent films, but there was a really good little vignette kind of about this.
And I think that violence is probably mostly the wrong vector to explore along, particularly gun violence and physical violence, war violence, that kind of thing.
But there's a film on Amazon called Nobody, and it makes a trope in a sense out of what I've just been saying, where the incredible weight of the tedium of day after day of the same fucking emptiness.
It's not going to matter anymore whether we're getting proper nutrition or sleep. What we need is adventure, brilliant companions, heroic missions, and they don't have to be vast or devastating.
They can be profound. Occasionally, just helping someone who's trapped in a situation, they themselves cannot seem to resolve or change up the structure of, is so liberating for the liberators.
Right, the ones who come and say like, okay, enough of this, you know, we're not, we're not, up with this, we will not put, let's go, let's make new terrain, let's get you out of this fucking nightmare.
So yeah, man, let's, let's remember how important it is to check in with each other about the traps that we're subject to, and, you know, find a way out together into the space where we can breathe again, play again, see better, learn more, grow, heal,
recover our, our humanity and our more than merely humanness with and for each other, and the history and future of intelligence and life in the universe.
Appreciate all of you who come and listen. I hope you have a beautiful way, and that something surprising comes along and wrecks whatever traps you've become familiar with.
Much love. Peace for now.
