We're having a girl sandwich tonight in the middle here.
These pieces are, in my mind, really similar, and I realize they might not be similar to
you, but they're almost the same thing to me.
By the way, does anybody have any wetting solution for contact lenses?
The war had gone on for so long that we took all of its little nuances for granted.
Being at war equals the conceit of science fiction when I say the enemy, the other, can look just like one of us
where the enemy could be anywhere at any time.
It was an unspoken given.
It was happening everywhere.
It was in our pathology and genealogy.
Basically, with or without willing it, we had all taken sides.
We had all gotten our signifying uniforms.
Some were bought ready-made, some other women stitched, some we recycled.
Makeshift was also a word in our motto, and so rags were as worthy and political as silks.
We were all raised with a mythology of rank, systems of order, charts of organization.
Mao Zedong left no impression, and so up remained the only logical destination.
There were still dreams of communes and communion.
Most all of the enlisted smoked continuously by land and by sea, commodities merged.
American cigarettes were so passe.
We discussed strategy under clouds of Dutch and French tobacco we would sometimes trade for German or Belgian varieties.
We were playing strategy games because the enlisted must play strategy games.
He was white. I was black.
He lost some high-ranking officials early.
We drank African coffee with Italian flavoring.
I had recently returned from a long series of skirmishes.
A sympathizer had filled little bags with sample cards of sleeping pills and tranquilizers.
I was still drowsy from Jägermeister and Xanax.
I was experiencing the symptoms so common among the ranks.
Perception kept tunneling and exploding.
Size was a problem.
Twitchy from coffee and fighting panic attacks, bishop to red six, itchy skin and bites from vague dreams.
He managed two queens and I killed them both with my rooks.
We played rummy then and followed the girl into the bunker.
It was showing signs of fatigue.
We rolled cigarettes.
There were only small rations of whiskey.
Some in the bunker had Old English 800.
The gathering looked cohesive at first glance.
Bell gum, galois, drum, bleach blonde and deep brunette grinding bodies through dingy lace.
The Spanish boy writing long letters home.
The girl was fixed on my chess mate.
She talked the talk of frayed nerves and unspeakable literary conspiracies.
Love was antithetical and so hatred disguised as love heavied the air and she was playing strategy games.
She was playing nothing hurts.
It was so obvious.
I'm so tired of this war.
I just want to take off this uniform and sleep the sleep of peace.
But there are maps being spread across the bunker floor.
There are long digressions about the difference between us and them.
The bleach blonde tacks pleats in the girl's nylon skirt.
The brunette boy sits in his boxers and drinks whiskey.
I roll cigarettes.
I draw three figures on the inside of the closet door.
I am dreaming of dreaming.
I am hearing the white noise of static of privates holed up in a bunker.
I'm thinking how stir-crazy we all are and how conversations are made of deception.
The girl is trying to hypnotize my comrade.
They both flick their ashes, missing the ashtray with some honed precision I don't understand.
A beer spills and I hear all the possible night maneuvers being considered.
X, she says.
Yeah, X.
Yeah.
Hey, can we hook up with some acid?
Yeah, acid, they all say.
No heroin.
No Jim Beam.
No Jack Daniels.
Remember that vodka?
Remember that crack?
Let's go somewhere and do something.
Then I'm thinking of privates on leave roaming the city obliterated and hailing in the coming
revolution.
I trace the silhouette of hills and distinguished churches and certain vital thoroughfares.
There is no oxygen left in the bunker.
Everyone is slumped over, but strategy games go on forever.
I am silent, but silence is not the same in different cultures and so it does not mean
anything like it means to the Belgian boy in his boxers drinking whiskey.
He doesn't say anything.
Only the girl was saying anything and only my chess mate was listening.
She was experiencing the symptoms so common among the ranks.
The bunker was hers.
The Spanish boy was hers.
The bleach blonde was hers.
The hypnotized comrade was hers.
I wasn't thinking at all about lieutenants or generals.
I was thinking how this war drags on forever and makes us all so edgy.
I was remembering the nights on shore leave and the enlisted all blacked out.
There was no oxygen.
Only smoke and my contacts were turning into fingernails.
There was some minor coup attempt.
The girl accused me of making faces in her bunker in front of the Belgians.
I said, you weren't even looking at me.
You were hypnotizing my comrade.
No, no, I saw you for one split second and you were making faces at me in my bunker in
front of the Belgians.
It was strategy all right, but I hadn't considered the game.
I picked up my chess set and went searching for oxygen.
I could hear her screaming, enemy, other, bitch, all the way home.
The war is endless in notes so now she belongs solely to her bunker.
I remove my uniform.
I drink Bushmills.
I swallow Belladonna.
I scratch her name off the we list and she writes my name on the they list.
Okay, now I'm going to attempt the four-page run-on sentence.
And this might hurt, but it's for your own good.
I promise.
Okay.
Adam, as proto-amnesiac, as he who strikes itself with acts as does not fall to sleep
or waking fully, as always as if for the first time tasting a sweetness he himself
is named, and as if for the last time the bitter, bitter part about all that had come
before, and the sinking feeling which he then names bitter sweetness, and it all seeming
as if a vague dream of vagueness to him, calling each instance the first awakening, fashioning
from this an incoherent narrative meant to replace recollection as something distinctly
separate from he remembers.
He who strikes itself with acts as one gone mad, refusing to fall to sleeping, to wake up really,
hacks the gestures from the meanings, the acts' exponential wielding, a causal knowledge,
and the false renaming as a memory of beforeness severed and perceived as if voyeuristically,
and this then being how in the beginning the naming of tribes may have embodied the concepts
of binging and starvation as happening coincidentally, necessarily as if by magic
in the same place at the same time, and taking it all in as disconnected mythology,
of fables of Gilgamesh who loves and kills Ankaidu, who appeared to him as if in dreaming,
to prophecy and cryptic gestures, his own coming, but then the discrepancy, the thirty miles
of walls around Uruk stamped over with Gilgamesh's confessions of insomnia, his fevered cuneiform
refusal to sleep or wake up fully, and this insomnia perhaps is a procreative necessity,
to confuse the memory with a vagueness, to confound his own knowing with his delirium,
and the defiant spitting on Ishtar, the slaying of the sacred, all his incoherencies,
and the sudden sinking feeling as if out of nowhere which seized him as if by magic
while hacking at all the cedars in the garden, and the whole time his insistent confession
that he knew not what he was doing or why, and this then being how the idea of the beginning
entails the madness of an ending. Ankaidu who was sent to lay him to sleeping really to wake him up wholly
becomes his mirror image expelled from memory in the necessary flash of clarity,
as if for the first time calling it a vagueness while going on and on about Ankaidu,
his longing for him, how his coming necessarily created his own destruction.
The axe itself sent in motion and resultingly Gilgamesh concealing his form beneath the skins of dogs,
running madly through a wilderness he himself has felled and calling the whole of events bittersweet.
Calling whatever happened before this time a cryptic blank, avoiding all myths involving self-seen self,
he enters the constructed abyss, avoiding the knowing with confessions of ignorance and inability.
Reshaping then always the same vague something else-ness of what it was before it became,
the sweetness eternally mingled with the bitter. Before but always after axes,
and this then is one of the first effects of civilization and the motive behind the plastics garden,
and always assuring the presence of someone else's hand to pick the fruit for you,
and so what he does not face he calls the unseeable,
and what he will not name he names the unnameable,
leading to a confounding notion of premonition as magic and not commission.
The clock is sent in motion in the wrong direction to make from time a discernible distance between the moment and the falling of axes.
But still the vague uneasiness about the he who strikes and sinking feelings,
the odd but necessarily coincidental knowing that the whole thing came with directions for a reason,
but still not being able to look at them, not wanting the intricate patterns of emergence,
just the vagueness driving the hands to fashion and exactness which exponentially expands until the thing made avoiding remembering itself becomes imposing.
And he who strikes itself with acts becomes he who will not see himself but also he who will never fully look away.
Not he who sleeps until nothingness wakes him or he who is lulled by symbols to dreaming, but he who dreams of dreaming falsely.
And the mystery of the he who strikes and the clocks all running the wrong way,
and the savoring of a bitter sweetness is always as if for the first last time.
And the coincidental presence of other tribes who tell of the mystery of fire, of evil as forethought,
as Prometheus clever beyond all measure climbing up to God the Father's house,
and innocence as an afterthought, as pure, pure invocational prayers for amnesia.
And in the worshiping of fire and all that has come after is a negative purge,
with confession as vacuous, as sucking in futures, as speaking from the heart the remarkable dog learns to bark, I love you.
And the heart is the seat of the soul, where the head is conceived as procreative,
and the throwing of Athena out from the body as the axe wielder of all thumbs, reinventing his tools to demonstrate a method
of madness so exact as to be indiscernible.
And genuflection is precognition as the acquisition of indulgences ahead of time,
and guilt is always, always facing the wrong way, and confession as if by magic determining the future,
the penance being to live out all that we deny, and always the wrong way.
The birthing of Athena not a procreation but vacuous confession,
the he who does not see himself putting a false naming on chaos, and as if by magic the invocation of order.
Precognition is the urge to murder the artist to protect the meaning of the artwork,
and the drive to make from the self the spectator, the voyeur, axes, falling.
And the execution of the act is going off without a hitch, the switch thrown and suddenly as if out of nowhere.
Barricades and ammunition, fanatics, their children, those playing possum, their assassins, the mystery,
the glory of the heroes, details, details.
And as if spellbound not once looking away, never once even recollecting the how, the why, the scripts, the writer,
not once admitting the props their flatness, but the conjuring of a vividness as though drugged.
The spectator, the spectacle, the unfolding elaborations as if through mesmerization allowing the momentary
and complete seduction of the self, as wholly loving the self, incestuously, before the acts of swiftness,
and afterwards the irony of neither one recognizing the other.
Axes is necessity and the resulting fear of lifting up one's head in the face of the possibilities of recognition,
the abbreviations, genuflections, relatedness.
Every way the wrong way.
Uraburas describes this perpetual motion in Narcissus as a model for economy,
the attempt to surrender always resulting in survival.
Perhaps the insertion of the tail into the mouth is a gesture meant to end it all,
ends only in the springing forth of the tribes.
The gesture, severed from meaning, resulting in ka, in nemesis, in the other, in evil,
into binging and purging as magically occurring in the same place at the same time.
And this is one of the reasons why any angel have to hit me really hard and hurt me like you mean it for any of it to be real.
And this is a cryptic gesture, the slapping of the art to finally wake the artist up or to lay him to sleeping finally.
The urge to run the wrong way as the magic will passage out, as deception, as necessary,
as undoing the original false naming of honesty.
Reverse hex is the ultimate failure to thrive.
Then Zeus, taking hold of his father's swift axe, turns it in on himself and suddenly,
as if through spontaneous alchemy, is the throwing of Athena out from his head.
Incestuously, he is loving himself with axes.
The confusion between purging and birthing,
and then as if for the first time the irony of Athena talking behind his back,
as a confirmation of his achievement, as a corrupted measure of sweetness,
and as if out of nowhere, as if for the first time, the bitterness mingling,
his first awakening, his fear of her remembering.
Thank you.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
