Hi, Sarah.
Hello, Darren. How are you?
I'm amazing. I'm so happy to see you. I think this is the first time we've ever had a live conversation where we can see each other.
Yeah, I've never seen you in real life.
Yeah, nor you, nor me, you. So I'm super excited. We've had some amazing conversations over time.
I love your mind and the way that you think about the world and complex topics.
Because you seem to me to be, like many of my friends, autodidactic, right? Like self-teaching.
So you may have, I don't know, your actual academic background.
And anything you care to say about that, I'd love to hear it.
I do have a lot of academic background. So I have a bachelor's, two master's, and a PhD from Cambridge.
So I have a good education. But especially over the bachelor's degree level, I mean, it is self-teaching.
You're not, I mean, you can take classes and learn stuff, but you're basically self-motivated.
And you're, you know, you're going in there because I want to learn this subject.
And you're doing all the work yourself. It's not like you go in there and somebody spoon feeds you stuff that you go, you know, repeat.
I think a lot of people don't understand what academics really is.
Usually you have a question and you want to spend time researching that question.
So you find a grant or you pay your hard money or you get a loan or you find some way to buy some time to go and study that thing.
And there's going to be experts around. You might go try to go study with an expert and have that be your supervisor or advisor, depending on the country.
Right. So it is a self-directed process. And even when I'm not in school, I am always trying to learn something new.
And some of the best ways to learn is to teach.
Because then you have to figure out how to explain it and what, when you try to start, even if you know a subject well, you can start trying to explain it to somebody.
And then you realize, hey, I don't really know this as well as I thought.
And then you have to go back and figure out, you know, what do I really know before you can tell somebody something.
Yeah, there's a stupid trope in English that I've always been highly suspicious of that goes something like those who can't do teach.
And I think that's really ridiculously silly.
It's I'm sure there are a few examples of people for whom that trope might have some degree of truth.
But I recall a story about someone who was studying Tai Chi with their teacher.
And Tai Chi is an incredibly difficult thing to learn.
It's counterintuitive.
It's infinitely deep.
Learning the movements doesn't help you much.
In fact, it can even inhibit you.
And he was he was moving away from his teacher.
And he said, you know, how am I going to continue to learn?
And the teacher said, I think you should teach.
So I can't teach.
I don't know Tai Chi.
And the teacher said, yes, that's why you should teach.
So you can learn it.
So, yeah, that's really clear to me.
Those of us who love the infinite ladder of learning, teaching is a crucial asset in the process of continuing our own education.
If you wouldn't mind, I'd like to hear the subjects in which you have your degrees.
So for my bachelor's degree, I actually wanted a degree in media arts.
And this was how old am I?
I don't know, maybe 30 years ago or almost 30 years ago that I was trying to get my bachelor's degree at the beginning because I started university like really young.
So, but yeah, so back then I was really interested in this idea of like multimedia kind of, I mean, I was, I didn't understand.
I'm sure people were already thinking of it more in more sophisticated terms than I was formulating in my little head.
But, you know, I was really interested in how do I tell stories or create things that are like immersive with sound and music and visuals all at the same time.
And I was interested in that and I started studying media arts along with political science and philosophy and stuff.
But then I ended up having a series of adventures which led me to Alaska and they didn't have media arts there very much.
They had like one or two classes or something as I recall.
So, I ended up taking Russian because I had been to Russia and I was kind of good at Russian and it was just the easiest thing.
And I think I minored in philosophy because I also like philosophy.
And so that's my bachelor's is in Russian studies with minor in philosophy.
And then first master's was Russian and East European studies.
Second master's near Eastern studies.
Where I did mostly history and languages and then my PhD is just in history, but I focus on Russia.
Well, it's the history of the Caucasus and but also you can put it into the history of Russia and the history of Eurasia more broadly.
What does the phrase the Caucasus refer to?
Well, the Caucasus is not a phrase.
Well, unless you count the and Caucasus together as a phrase.
So it's it's but but when I said it's not a phrase, that was my instinctual reaction.
Like it's not a thing, you know, it's it's something that is and that is the Caucasus, which is a region named it's two mountain ranges.
And so the region around these mountain ranges is called the Caucasus and there's the greater Caucasus and the lesser Caucasus and
you know, for forever that's been called Caucasus and people from there are called Caucasian and things from there, it's an adjective describing
you know, nouns from that region and the the word Caucasian that's used on our demographic surveys or whatever is a misnomer, it's wrong and annoying.
So please continue tell us more about it and also what geographic what national areas are encompassed by the Caucasus.
Well, it's not the Caucasus it's the Caucasus the Caucasus great yeah the Caucasus region or Caucasus mountain ranges um well in the South Caucasus you have Armenia Georgia and Azerbaijan and how those countries come about is a very long complex story.
You know, reaching back into prehistory, but then in the North Caucasus everything in the North Caucasus is under the control of for belonging to brush the Russian Federation so there's republics in there, which have sort of the titular.
Titular or the titular or the titular like the the nationalities that they're named after.
So you've got the Republic of Dagestan, Chechnya, Ingusharia, Kabardino-Balkaria, Karachay-Cherkesia, and some other parts there.
So the original nationalities are the original nationalities are the Circassians in the Northwest.
So there's also they dig in Republic.
And they are the sort of Kabardins, like in Kabardino-Balkaria, and the Circass in Karachay-Cherkesia.
So they're like broken up and split up and sharing that with the Balkars and the Karachay and lots and lots of Russians.
And Russians have taken over like the territories like Stavropol and Sochi areas and this kind of thing.
So I'm forgetting some of my geographical details like on the on the fly, but that's basically it.
And then in Dagestan, well, obviously Chechen Republic is for Chechens and has Chechens there as the majority and Ingusharia has English there.
Ossetia, there's Ossetia, I can't forget them.
And in Dagestan, it's Dagestan just means mountain country.
So it's full of but it's it's so mountainous that all of these different little groups of people have, you know, kind of come and go and like developed in their little areas.
And so it's very ethnographically diverse.
So Dagestan is a collective identity, but there's different ethnic groups in there.
Let's see. What was the first part of that?
Oh, yeah. So tell us a little bit about how the phrase, the word, excuse me, Caucasian is a misnomer.
Well, there's some racist German guy studying skull shapes or something, and he found a skull from Georgia and he thought it was the best, prettiest skull.
And he said, all of these, this is where white people must have come from.
So if you're white, you're Caucasian.
So, I mean, Caucasian was before this guy did his little scientific experiment and they came up with that name.
So, and then it started, it seemed, you know, as far as I can understand, it seems to emerge from this kind of ridiculous racial theory of the 19th century or I don't know whenever he was around, probably the 1800s.
That's something you could look up.
Now we're using that as a synonym for European, you know, European ethnos, right?
But if you want to put it into American racial categories, white, and it has nothing to do with it because Caucasians and Europeans aren't even, I mean, they're related somewhere down there along the line, but they're different genetic groups.
Like, not that we aren't all the same, but, but you know what I mean?
They're not the same.
They don't have the exact same ancestry that we do.
So there's vast problems with, and they differ in different places.
All I, the only thing I really know about because I've never been out of the United States is how it is in the United States.
And for us, our relationship with categories is mostly garbage.
There's all kinds of garbage in there that have nothing to do with anything reliable.
It's almost like we have a lexicon of traditional misinterpretations or something like this.
Well, and you know what, it leads to problems because, for example, there was a book about the Caucasus and he, the author of this book, who I wouldn't call a real specialist on the Caucasus per se.
I mean, I'm sure he, he did a good job writing his book.
I don't mean he didn't know what he was writing in his book, but this wasn't his specialty area that he, you know, spent his whole career researching in depth.
You know, I think, I think I read somewhere he was invited to write this book, you know, and he's a good writer and he's written another book that's really good, you know, but so it's an interesting book.
I'm not knocking it, but at the beginning of the book, it said, I'm not going to use the term Caucasian because of the implications it has in the, in the United States.
And I don't know, we didn't want to offend anybody or something was what I remember vaguely.
I mean, it was years and years ago that I read.
I couldn't read.
I really didn't want to read that book anymore.
I'm like, how can you write about the Caucasus and refuse to use the word Caucasian?
Because you don't want to offend someone in the United States.
Like who's going to be offended in the United States anyway?
Like, nobody's going to be offended.
And why would it, why would it matter?
Well, it's a good chance for education, you know, like, or, you know,
learning something new.
Why are they using this word that makes me so angry?
I'm going to be angry.
Or why are they using this word that makes me so angry?
What does this word really mean?
Let me find out what the reason is they're using it.
And maybe, oh, there's a place over there called the Caucasus, the caucus, not the caucus.
It's not the mythical.
Yeah.
So it's not the mythical homeland of all white people.
Right.
By the way, the only reason I used the phrase, the phrase, is that the caucuses isn't a word.
So I didn't know how, and I couldn't say, what does that word, the caucuses mean?
Right.
Because it does there, right?
Right, right.
So I think technically it is probably if, I don't know, is that somehow classified as a phrase and grammar?
Well, more than one word is, can't be called a word.
So what else could it be called?
Do you have any other ideas?
I don't know enough about.
I was puzzled, right?
I didn't.
Grammar.
Yeah, I was puzzled.
Depths of, the depths of linguistics.
Yeah.
To answer.
I'm sure I've, I'm pretty sure I've looked that up before and, and once at one point knew it, but I can't remember at this point.
Like, I don't remember anything.
It's like, my head's just full and I can't, it's hard to put any more in there.
So I put something new and like something leaves.
I get it.
Um, you know, I've, I've always been since, since we met and I think we met primarily through social media somehow.
I think, uh, you know, we have a mutual friend in Alaska.
Well, my friend's in Alaska.
Um, I don't know if you know where he lives, but he's comments regularly or posted your stuff regularly.
And I thought it was interesting.
And I added it.
Um, and then I don't know.
Sometimes I interacted or something.
I think one day you just said, if anybody wants to call and chat, um, let me know.
And I was kind of curious to talk to you and, you know, see what kind of person you were.
Um, so.
Or, you know, whatever you were thinking, or maybe I had a question a bit related to some of this stuff.
Probably I had a question related to some of this stuff you were posting.
And I thought you might, or I was thinking about some things and I thought you might be a good person to bounce some ideas off of or whatever.
So I, I did that.
Cause I think that's your habit is sometimes you're like, Hey, I'm, I'm available to talk to whoever.
And any of my followers want to talk to me.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I do sometimes just post like, Hey, anybody out there let's, let's have a conversation.
Right.
So I'm so glad that that resulted in our meeting.
Um, I quickly realized during our conversation.
Well, I, I don't know if realize is the right word, and I'm going to be careful about apologizing about words, because otherwise I won't be able to speak naturally.
But well, I was only teasing about the phrase.
No need to feel self-conscious, but I, I quickly discerned, um, that you were an amazing mind, an amazing human being, an amazing working on it.
Um, an extremely intelligent person.
Uh, and similar to what I might call here's praise, uh, the unusually minded cohort of many of my closest friends.
Who, um, unusual minded might be a good adjective.
It's, you know, for me anyway, I don't know about them.
Yeah, no, it's, it's ambiguous enough that, you know, nobody can really take offense.
Uh, but it often includes people who have peculiar intellectual, linguistic, or educational abilities.
Um, and some of these people might be described.
Um, some might self-identify as, uh, having, yeah, I guess this is a little dangerous these days to use this language, but I'm not that concerned about offending anyone.
So I'll just talk in the language that is relatively familiar to me.
Um, I think it's, uh, considered, I don't know, unwoke to use phrases like on the spectrum or spectrumy.
But a lot of my friends have qualities that might be associated with certain branches of.
Well, I think they say neurodivergent at this point.
Yes, this is the phrase that is commonly used today, neurodivergent.
I think they were using on the spectrum until, like, last week.
Then, like, I started seeing stuff about, like, there is no spectrum.
I don't, I don't know at this point.
I don't either.
What's actually going on there.
But, yeah, I mean, you know, I've won wonders from, you know, at times.
But, um, I mean, many of my friends have what I might call, and each one uniquely, like, in sort of their own way.
Um, they have a capacity to go extremely deep into some branch of thought, academia, linguistics, semantics.
They tend to be hyperlexic in the sense of unusually skillful with language.
And these are just some of their tendencies.
And like I said, there's a continuum of people.
Each one is, each person is unique.
People are different on different days.
I mean, they are different in different life phases.
So I understand kind of the rejection of labels thing.
I get it.
But still, we can, you know, reasonably use them sometimes.
And you certainly struck me as an unusually minded person in a lot of very fascinating and, I think, brilliant ways.
Is it, are you engaged in teaching these days?
Mostly online.
Uh huh.
Yeah, this is something else that I respect about you.
I think in our early conversation, I was impressed in knowing, uh, something about your life history and so on as I, as I came to know it.
I, I consider you to have been and still are a very heroic person.
Uh, heroic in the sense of, yes, you, um, you've had to struggle with a broad array of significant challenges.
And, uh.
And now I have a new diagnosis too.
Oh, is that so?
I have Meniere's disease.
Oh my goodness.
Uh, how did, how was this discovered?
I had hearing loss.
And, uh, but in my hearing's back now.
It's just, um, it went through several myths of like, am I going deaf?
You're going deaf.
You're going to die.
You know, no, you're not like, you know, that's a little bit of a hyperbole there.
But yeah, it was kind of scary for a while.
And so, um, now I have an even stricter diet.
I can't have more than a certain amount of salt.
No caffeine, almost no caffeine.
Like anything that was left to eat that I enjoyed, like pickles, you know, no.
Like, no, no.
I loved French fries, like with lots of, I like really like, um, fermented cabbage and like
French fries and pickles and any kimchi and anything really salty.
And now it's like, no, no more salt.
Wow.
Have you found, have you found enjoyable substitutions yet?
No, um, but since it's not zero salt, it's low salt.
So I'm kind of learning to adjust to, um, like it's taking, it's going to take a while, but
like how much can you have it a day?
And like, if you make a pot of food, you put a certain amount of salt.
It doesn't mean you're going to eat all of that salt at once.
But the problem is you can't really go out to eat and stuff.
Cause you can't, um, it's very hard to find anything where you can measure stuff.
And so at first I was just having like zero salt and it's like, I can't, oh my goodness.
You know, but then I'm like, okay, it's not zero salt.
You can really manage, you can have some spaced out or across the day and, um, stuff.
So that the worst part though, is when I have an attack, like I had a cold last week.
And, um, my whole head just feels like a balloon.
And like, there's a red hot envils and pokers in your ears.
And it's really hard to, um, concentrate on whatever you're doing, but I've done it.
So it's, it's better.
Like I I've got the medicine.
It's not, not nothing bad in terms of medicine and, um, working on it.
So, yeah, like, it's just like, yeah, you're right.
It does feel like challenge, weird challenge after weird challenge.
But, you know, who isn't facing a challenge?
You know, and I've always had help in some way or the other.
And then, um, there's lots of, not to dismiss the challenges I face or you face or something,
but, you know, or any of us face, I don't think we should dismiss our individual experiences,
but there are people just no house, no clothes.
Like there's wars happening everywhere right now.
And, um, you know, you and I get to sit in our warm abodes and talk to each other about esoteric subjects or about ourselves, you know?
And, you know, that's something every human likes, uh, likes to do, especially, I mean, at least the last one.
But, um, you know, you would find that happening even in an extreme situation.
Right.
But, um, that's my point.
But at the same time, um, we're lucky that we're still alive.
And, um, life is pretty short.
And, um, when I was younger, I drew, I, I created this, I drew these pictures.
I still have them.
I kind of wrote a little weird book and it was, um, there was a story, some stories in there.
I don't want to go in detail, but like, it, it kind of had the philosophy in there.
Like there was this little kind of creature, they weren't humans exactly, but like humanoids.
And she's like born in this horrible planet and it's full of, you know, mud and volcanoes.
And, you know, it's a terrible, nasty place.
And like the people are evil.
The humanoids, they're evil and they're doing awful things to each other.
And, and she's kind of like, it's kind of like, why is this, you know, why is this poor child born in this place?
You know, it's awful.
And, um, I guess my teenage understanding, if these were, maybe I was like 21 or something.
It was like, well, where there's this, this huge vast cosmos.
And it's sometimes not nice sometimes, but it's, it's the human life is like one little spark of rebellion.
Like against this vast cosmos.
I mean, you're alive.
So that's a spark.
It's a spark.
And so you gotta, um, you know, but it'll go out like that.
So you gotta enjoy it, um, or make the best of it.
However you can in that, no matter how horrific the circumstances are.
And I think that's what humans do is a lot of them do.
Um, they do their best until they can't anymore.
But as long as you're there, you have to try to do your best.
It's kind of an absurdist philosophy.
I think if I think about it, but.
Well, I was profoundly impressed to learn what I've come to know about your life history, particularly as an adult.
And your ability to, um, continue to pursue your, um, your intellectual, academic, and philosophical, uh, brilliance, actually.
Um, yeah, I was because, I mean, I've faced challenges in my own life and it can be disingenuous to compare challenges with other people.
Um, but compared to what you faced, um, but even some of the really difficult stuff I faced seems relatively modest.
And so that's part of why I think of you as heroic.
Um, and you just like, no matter what the hell you're facing, you, you're, you're very tenacious.
And that's something I respect and honor.
Subborn and tenacious, but you know, you have to be to stay alive.
So I'd like to ask you some questions, a few questions about your childhood.
Um, is whereabouts did you, did you grow up?
Um, I grew up in a place called, well, I was born in Boston because my father who was from North Carolina, he was born in Atlanta, but he's, you know, grew up in North Carolina.
He, um, wanted to study guitar at Berkeley College of Music.
So I was born while my father was there.
So I have no real connection with Boston, except for that I was born there while my dad was pursuing, you know, an education in music, in guitar.
Um, and, um, he fortunately still plays guitar and bass very well.
He's still in a band, but you know, he had a different kind of career, um, professionally, but then pursuing his, um, funk band career that would have possibly gone well because he was really good.
The band was good, but, um, he ended up being responsible and taking care of the families instead of pursuing a music career.
Um, so thankfully he can still enjoy that, you know, regularly.
And, um, so I was raised, he, he, we were living in Charlotte when I was younger, but then he, Charlotte's in North Carolina, and then he moved us out to the country in a place called Indian land, South Carolina.
And Indian land of my childhood is this, this idyllic place.
Um, it was beautiful. I just played in the trees and the woods all the time and the, there was a creek and kind of a big hill that was like a little mountain, tiny mountain, you know, for a kid.
It was like almost like a cliffs and, and I had a really nice dog and I had another dog and some cats that were outside and they were just, I don't know.
I just spent a lot of pretending I was like a rebel fighter or like going, like walking around in the woods all the time.
Like there was like an old shed or things, so I pretend I was partisan and mostly by myself, but sometimes with other, my brothers or the neighbor kid or something, or friends from church would come over that.
I didn't really like very much, but they would, I would have to play with them.
They just didn't like playing in the woods that much.
You know, they were like Chrissy and, you know, catty.
But, um, so yeah, that was really nice. It was really ideal.
Um, so yeah, Indian land was really wonderful place to grow up, but my dad moved away later on to somewhere else.
Um, did your mother and father stay together?
No, but for most of my childhood, yes. But by the time I was probably 15 or 16, they divorced.
Or no, they divorced when I was probably 20, but I, I don't know what happened in my late teenage years. I don't remember. I left home very young.
At what age?
Probably.
I don't know.
Um.
Not maybe not that young. I think I went to Moscow when I was 18 and then I came back and went to New Orleans and Florida and traveled around and I tried to start school again because I dropped out several times from college.
Um, I guess the second or third time, second time I went back to college at USC Columbia.
And, um, that I left there and went up to Alaska after a stop in Denver.
And so like in that whole chaotic time, I think that they were still, I don't know if they were married or not at that point.
I don't, I don't remember the timeline there.
And I don't remember exactly when the divorce happened and all that movement.
Yeah, I think, um, leaving home early is something we have in common.
I think we've talked about that some previously, because I, I left home when I was 14.
Um, I'm curious.
That's, that's significantly younger.
What, what did you, why did you, well, I don't know if you want to talk about it, but why did you leave?
Why did you leave home when you were 14?
Yeah.
And by the way, you can ask me questions too, right?
This is a conversation.
Okay.
Not just one side.
Um, and I'm, I'm pretty open.
If there's something I don't want to talk about, I'll, I'll say, but it's very, very few things that are like that for me.
Um, so, uh, how, what, how to tell the story.
So I was like a high performing student in elementary school.
So I was like straight a student.
I was with the smart kids, right?
They were my cohort.
Um, but between, so sixth grade is the end of elementary school.
Then, you know, you have middle school where I lived anyway, which is seventh and eighth grade.
And then you have high school, uh, which is nine, 10, 11, 12.
Um, in the summer, probably around the end of sixth grade, a lot of things changed.
My parents, uh, had been in the process of separating.
Um, I was introduced to smoking weed.
Um, that radically affected me.
Uh, and I went from being sort of like a very, um, intellectual high performing academic kid to somebody who didn't care at all about school and thought like, this is just bullshit.
What am I doing here?
It doesn't make any sense.
I'm not learning.
This is, you know, this is something around fourth grade.
I started to lose my, uh, faith in education.
I can learn much more on my own than they were teaching me in the classroom.
It seemed like a waste of time.
Um, but the, when my parents began to separate and I was introduced to weed by my dad, essentially, who thought I was already smoking weed.
Wasn't the case.
Um, that changed my life pretty dramatically and I became sort of one of the stoner kids.
And then, uh, I got in a lot of trouble from 13 and from late 12 to, to almost 14.
I was in huge amounts of trouble and I was living in a place called Stockton, which is a nightmare.
Um, it's much more of a nightmare today than it was then, but it was not a good place to grow up.
Although thankfully my elementary school was early and the neighborhood we lived in was good.
Um, so my mother had, my mother was an artist and she had gotten a job running this crazy hotel that was on the outskirts of Bohemian Grove.
In, uh, Gurrenville or actually Montorio, which is near Gurrenville on the Russian river.
It's a place called the Highland Dell.
It was built by Mason's in the 1930s.
Um, it was really like a sort of wonderland, this, this strange Victorian old hotel.
Um, it had, had a gigantic bar, a dance floor and a stage and a restaurant, and it was Victorian.
Um, and very much like in that place in the Russian river in the 1970s and 80s when I was around there.
Um, it was like the 1960s had never, had never progressed.
Right.
It was, so I never encountered anything like this place.
I used to go to visit my mom and I knew that if I stayed in Stockton, I was going to end up dead or in prison.
Um, so on my 14th birthday, I ran away, had sleeping bag, fishing pole, jar of peanut butter, loaf of bread, a vial of hash oil, and a couple of books.
Um, and I just hit the road.
That's about like my story.
I just took a few things.
I had a hundred bucks or something and like a credit card that I didn't want to use.
You know what I mean?
I bought a bus ticket and I just went west and going west.
I bought a ticket to Portland and there was a young man on the bus who had just got discharged from the army or something like honorable discharge.
He just ended his time in the army and he was going to stay with this girl named Ava, young woman named Ava.
And when he found out, um, my story.
Now this was a young man devoted to his girlfriend.
I think he was going to get married and stuff.
So there was nothing there, but, um, just benevolence.
And he got real worried about me.
And he said, okay, you know what?
I'm going to call my friend Ava and see if you can come, if I can take you to her.
And, um, he was going to rent a room from her.
Um, but he convinced her to let me stay there at least tonight.
And, um, maybe she'd let me rent the space on the couch.
And so that night, I don't know, I did the dishes really well or something.
And then she said, you know what?
You're cool.
You can stay on my couch.
And I lived there for a few months on her couch and got a job at a bank and stuff.
So, um, or like temp, you know, so it was really, um, just lucky.
Um, but it was also just me also being sociable.
So being sociable can get you in trouble on a bus.
It can also, um, save your life potentially on a bus.
I could have been easily in Portland and homeless with nowhere to go.
I mean, I wouldn't have known even where to look probably.
Um, so what happened to you when you left at 14 with your jar of peanut butter?
It sounds like pretty, you know, I didn't have too much of a rough time when I set out.
Right.
I immediately got, um, helped and immediately found a place and a job and saved my money
and moved up to Alaska and I was already back in school.
You know, I was safe, but 14 year old boy with, I don't know, did you say a fishing rod?
Um, I had a skateboard.
I also had a skateboard.
Okay.
So how did you, um, survive that?
So I got up early in the morning on the day after my birthday and I left the hotel on my skateboard
board and I skated around in this weird Monte Rio area and I found a little sort of, there's,
there's a couple of roads that lead out toward the ocean.
And, um, one of them's kind of on the inside of Monte Rio and goes on one side of the river.
And the other is I think highway 12 and goes on the outside.
And I went on the inside and I found a little area of cottages.
And on the outside of that area near the river itself, there was this huge bramble, like a dome of, um, brush.
And there was a tunnel into the dome.
And in the inside of the tunnel, there was like a little clearing deep inside this thing, sort of like a, like a tent or a cave, but made out of plants.
Yeah.
I seen those when I was a kid in my, like in the woods around my yard and at the edge of my yard, we had these magnificent little puddles and tons of plant, you know, blackberries and trees.
It was probably a blackberry bramble.
Um, so I stashed my stuff in there and I took my skateboard and I started just skating out towards this place called Duncan's mills.
Um, and I, I sort of, I think I knew that one of the guys that worked for my mom, who I was really, um, I was really impressed with.
Who's an Italian guy named Joe Del Juvis.
And he was a cook and a guitar player and hilariously comedic.
Um, and he cooked for the Highland Dell and he had learned to cook in New Orleans.
And, um, I was quite taken with him.
So I skated, I knew that he lived somewhere in this place called Duncan's mills.
I knew the vaguely what direction that was in.
So I skated out to Duncan's mills and I immediately found his house.
Um, and I went there and I told him what was going on.
He was like, oh, you can't stay outside.
You got, you got it.
Like, so they have this little garage on the side of the house.
And, uh, a woman and her daughter were living in that garage and they were like, they were sort of renting, sort of renting it to them.
And so they were like, okay, you can stay with them at least for, for now.
And then eventually they moved me in the house.
There was this tiny little, um, cubby hole above one of the closets at the roof level.
So I had sort of my own room, but it was very small.
Um, and I lived there for about the first five, six months of being a runaway.
Did you work?
No.
Um,
Now, when I left, I was an adult.
I was not a runaway, but.
I was.
Yeah.
You were a runaway for sure.
Yeah.
In fact, um, I think I have a photograph.
Let's see if I can find this just for historical value here.
So I probably can.
Uh, I have a photographic me at that time.
Let's see where it is.
Um, so, um, yeah, I stayed with Joe in the beginning.
Uh, and I, they, they try, like my mom was sort of involved.
She knew where I was.
Um, so this is me just before I came home off the street.
Yeah.
Right.
So here I'm like, so if I, I left at 14 here, I'm like.
17.
I'm about 17.
Right.
This is at my grandma's house.
My first electric guitar.
Um, and, uh, but that's basically how I looked back then.
Uh, so yeah, I mean, I had various adventures.
Um, they tried to put me in school.
I used to hitchhike about 30 miles to get to this high school called Analy,
which we used to joke about is called Analy.
Cause it's basically spelled the same thing.
Um, and it was a very redneck high school and I was a hippie.
So that didn't go well.
Um, I, I assumed you would be working.
You were there.
They actually tried to get you back in school.
No.
So you left, you left from your dad and you found somebody that you knew associated with your
mother who helped you out.
And your mom was aware, but she, for some reason didn't let you come stay at her hotel
or you didn't want, she didn't want me.
She didn't want the responsibility of me.
She loved me and everything, but she was very much into having her freedom.
Um, at this point.
And that's part of why she left my dad.
Uh, she wanted to maintain a relationship with her children, but she didn't want to be like
a mother all the time.
Um, well, couldn't she have let you live in a cubby in her hotel and leave you alone?
You know, like what you've done for yourself.
Yeah.
In theory, she could have probably found a spot for me, but I think she did sort of find a
spot with me.
She made some kind of an agreement with Joe, right?
Yeah.
But as long as he would house me and stuff, my dad would tend a little bit of money or
whatever.
Um, so at least they knew where I was, uh, and you could have your freedom.
Yeah.
There was a little conspiracy that I don't probably know too much about.
Um, I don't want to talk at length about this cause I have a bunch more questions for
people.
Okay.
But, um, it's just interesting though, because, um, so, so you were there for six months.
So then you went and did something else.
Yeah.
Then I lived, uh, basically on the street, but I've met this 21 year old guy.
His name was Eric Nesset and he had won a lawsuit.
He'd spent all of the money, but he got a significant amount of money.
And one of the things that he did was he bought this old Victorian school bus from like the
1940s and he fixed it up as a hippie pad.
It didn't run and it was parked in a parking lot near my mom's hotel.
But I stayed with him a lot.
That was the next phase was in the bus with Eric.
And it was pretty grim, but at least I had shelter for a while.
Um, and you know, the situation went through various phases before I, just before I came
home, there was a time when I was staying at my grandmother's house in Santa Rosa.
There was a time when I was staying with my mom in Santa Rosa.
Just before I came home, she was, um, she, she'd left the Highland Dell and had gotten a job as a billboard saleswoman for 3M.
Um, and I lived with her for a little while.
Um, I picked up the guitar at a hippie school called none such.
It was out in the woods.
It was amazing.
That place just incredible.
Um, and crazy, like really like something out of a novel.
Okay.
Okay.
So we can go where, well, what happened when you, um, went back to your dads?
Like, how did you find a, uh, like a career or educational path or?
Um, I'm happy to talk about that stuff, but I have questions I want to ask you before I lose my thread.
Okay.
So when you were young, um, I'm actually gonna restart cause I'm gonna be cutting.
I now have to think about what to cut and how to get continuity, uh, which I normally don't have to think about in a video, but I can do it.
So I'm curious about as a child, were there specific stories or people that were profoundly influential on you,
um, thinking about your, how you wanted to become what, who you wanted to become, what you wanted to do, how you wanted to be as an adult.
Uh, any, any particular stories, media, music, or people that you found inspiring as a child?
Not sure about that.
Um, I had a pretty traumatic childhood.
Um, nobody hurt me.
Physically or anything, but, um, I did grow up in a cult.
So a lot of my, um, and I had a very influential grandmother, step-grandmother who was Japanese.
And she like, when I left the cult, she kind of pretended I didn't exist.
So I, I didn't believe in this cult and its ideas.
And I met a lot of resistance when I left it at 16.
And then I, um, that whole world was just cut off.
And so I think I spent some years figuring out what's going on in the world after that.
You know what I mean?
I had to, um, find my own path.
So I basically rejected everything that I had been told as a child.
And is it okay to name the cult or would you prefer not to?
No, you can't.
Yeah.
It's not one of the weirdest ones.
It's, um, it's one of the ones that people say, that's not a cult.
They're just really nice people.
You don't know what you're talking about.
It's the Jehovah's witnesses.
Oh, wow.
Um, and that, that's definitely a cult and it's definitely evil and evil doesn't always wear an ugly face.
Right.
They're, they're very good at putting, and a lot of the people, well, you know, I, I used to go to, there was, I went to two main church.
Well, I went to three churches.
Now the first church, well, they're called kingdom halls.
So the first one, um, they were always kind to me.
This was an interesting kingdom hall with, now I was very young, you know, and there were, they had, um, so I'm basically a regular, not Caucasian, but white kid.
And, um, nothing special there in that, you know, just lower middle class or kind of moving into middle, middle class.
White kid in the country near a big city.
And the only interesting thing.
Well, I liked Indian land.
I liked the school I went to, but I find Indian land interesting, like symbolically because everything's Indian land.
Wasn't it?
You know?
And at least I lived in the most honest, you know, place in the country.
Um, but, um.
The most honestly named place.
Yeah, that's what I meant to say.
Um, so I guess I did have kind of, I was surrounded by foreigners and people who weren't regular, just plain old white people in my first church.
Um, you know, I'm using the word church, although that's not the right word.
It's just easier to say that kingdom hall in my first church.
Um, you know, there was the Bulgarian lady and the Polish people and the, the, um, lots of African Americans.
So black people and my, my grandmother was Japanese with her Japanese friends.
And, you know, there was a lot of, um, and there was this Hebrew guy, not Hebrew.
I don't know.
He spoke, he was trying to teach me Hebrew or something.
Um, you know, there was, um, just a real mix.
And that probably influenced me to some extent.
And then when we moved to the country, um, into Indian land, there wasn't a kingdom hall nearby.
So we had to go to the, the Bible studies, you know, weekly Bible study and Fort Mill, which is an old mill town.
That's quite a fluent, um, it became quite a fluent, but in those days, you know, there's lots of, um, people who are descendants of mill workers living there or whatever.
And so I would go to this meeting with this really poor, um, black family, you know, and everybody, there was all these poor African Americans and they were old, you know, and they had a distinct smell like of whatever there, you know, something different, you know, it was all different.
And they were so, so, so kind.
I don't know.
You know, and, and then I would go to the regular meetings in, um, Lancaster.
And again, that's, I think that was a mill town or something as well.
Again, it was mostly low income, mostly black people and, um, some white people, but not many.
And they were the kindest people you'd ever met.
And so I was surrounded by lots of love, um, in those, in those, by those kinds of different, this diverse group of people, um, Asians, Eastern Europeans, um, black, black people.
Um, and then we moved to, they built a new kingdom hall and it was in Charlotte suburb and it was more affluent, you know, middle class and upper middle class white people, mostly.
And I hated that church.
They were just awful, like snobs.
And I just thought they were jerks, except for like this one, um, black lady and a couple of them, they were, I mean, very, very kind to me.
Like one time I was a cold and she like bought me a coat, you know, so I had a different experience of race, racial, um, issues in the United States than a lot of people growing up.
Uh, because I, we, in that call, like there is not this idea of race, or at least that's what they tell you.
And as a kid, I didn't know better.
It is very, there was mixed marriages.
Um, there was there, I never noticed anything in terms, you know, you had leaders that were black, you had leaders that were white.
It just didn't matter as long as you were a man.
And, um, so I, I did probably have, we had a German, German friends around that time.
And I think they were ended up being scammers, not of us, but something like in there.
That's how they made money.
But, um, he had a Filipino wife and he was Germany.
And I remember them telling my mother, your daughter is not a normal American.
She seems European.
You know, I was probably 12 or 13 and they just didn't think I seemed, um, like everybody else.
They felt like I'd fit in better in Europe.
Um, so I don't know if that kind of diverse influence.
Um, and when I left the cult and I started talking to people outside of it, I'm learning the whole world over again.
Um, and quite innocent about things.
So then I realized, oh, racism isn't over.
You know, like these people, people still have bad experiences.
And I had to learn that pretty quick.
And, um, you know, like they were like, we're going to Martin Luther King day parade or something.
Why would you need to do that?
Isn't everything fine?
No, it's not, you know?
So I, all right.
Um, people would talk to me about how they felt discriminated in certain situations or whatever.
So I learned that it wasn't, it wasn't this cozy world of the cult out there.
But I wonder, you know, it's, if you want to ask like what influenced me, did it happen like that?
I had such a diverse group of people around me that I wanted to go travel around the world.
Like, you know, that I saw, um, the world as a bigger place or, you know, I was really interested in languages already.
Even as a kid, like I wanted my grandmother to teach me Japanese.
I wanted this guy at church to teach me Hebrew, but I didn't really follow through with any of those.
But I was already interested in like, hey, let's learn another language.
Uh, these people are nice.
They're from Poland.
What's Poland, you know?
So who are all these people out there and what are all these different cultures and languages?
Um, I didn't have a tremendous amount of exposure, but I would have had more than, you know, some other kids I grew up with.
Um, so that might've been something, um, I did enjoy reading philosophers as a kid.
So I dropped out of school pretty early.
Well, they went to put me in homeschool cause they didn't want the influence of the outside world on me.
Um, but they, they didn't do anything in terms of really teaching me anything at home or whatever.
So I would just kind of became self-directed in that.
I just started working probably at 15, but I would get lists of books that I would try to start, you know, chip a book off, take a, take a book off the list.
I remember reading like the Stoics and Montescu and I don't know, Oliver Wendell Holmes and stuff like this.
Cause I felt like I wanted to be a lawyer, um, and do law, but I ended up not pursuing that path.
But like, you know, all of these things that I had interests in, then I still have interest in.
So I think, I guess actually the person who made the most impacted were two people.
When I left that cult, um, I went to, and my parents put me in homeschool.
I had already been like, since 14, there was a special program where high school kids could take a class at the local university.
branch.
And so I'd taken logic or something.
And actually that class was like, Hey, yeah, this cult stuff, this religion stuff is really illogical.
Now I'm not opposed to religion in general, but I was like, within two minutes, I was like, Hey, you know what?
Your, you know, premises aren't sound or something.
Like this doesn't make any sense.
You know, you're talking about this and you're doing that and blah, blah, blah.
And so I wrote, I actually, most people leave the Jehovah's witnesses.
I think they just stopped going or they're, they're kicked out for doing something wrong.
You know, but I actually wrote a resignation letter and said, I don't believe that you guys are God.
I don't believe that this religion contains.
The truth.
Monopolizes God's truth.
Like you claim.
And so I'm leaving.
And that was really.
At what age?
16.
And so, you know, I did the formal resignation and I left.
And so when they put me in, but before that they'd put me in homeschool and I was taking this class at the college and the professor there.
Of philosophy.
He ended up becoming the Dean.
Having a great career.
He's recently retired.
Yeah.
You know, I, I still remember them, but he.
Somehow said, you can't just, why don't you just take more classes?
And he actually got me in school full time through the back door.
I didn't until the administration found out I was taking like five classes or four classes or whatever.
They're like, you can't do that.
Like she needs to take the SAT or the GRE or something.
So I had to go take the SAT and get my like general GED, not GRE, GED.
And after I got my, they, they saw my SAT results and they were like, okay, she can stay.
Because apparently the joke was that, I guess it was a joke.
Um, it brought the whole school average of the SAT average up a couple points.
Right.
They let me stay.
So, um, so that, um, I had various conversations with that philosophy professor and took a couple
of his classes, you know, and I'd go visit him in his office from time to time.
And we'd chat, you know, um, and so I think he had, you know, said various things that probably influenced me a great deal.
Once, you know, I don't remember.
I remember one thing particularly, it was about, um, religion.
And I had decided I'd be an atheist after leaving the cult.
And he said, um, well, you know, maybe there is a God or I don't know what he said.
And I was like, huh, well, he's Catholic, but well, he's a very smart person.
And if he thinks that there might be the chance, maybe I'll give it a consider.
I'll give some consideration to the fact.
So it wasn't about religion as much as about like, is this a material universe or is there some spiritual out spirituality behind it?
You know, is that just matter?
Cause I was like, okay, it's just matter.
This is all nonsense.
Is it really just matter?
You know, is there something behind that?
Um, and so I opened myself up to, I was like, all right, I'll just observe and I'll watch and I'll see.
And so since then I've been observing and watching and, um, that helped open my mind to, um,
have different interpretations of reality than I did when I was 16.
So he was influential, not only in setting me on the path of academics.
Um, but also helping me just to, um, keep an open mind about the nature of reality.
And, um, I met him years later when I was visiting the United States and we had lunch.
I told him that story and he, he didn't remember it.
He said, Oh, I was probably messing with you.
You know, like he, he did, he was like, I didn't, that wasn't me trying to influence you in any way.
Like he couldn't believe he'd said it.
And there was another professor there.
Uh, but, but sometimes those casual remarks are things that can really get somebody's brain thing, you know, going in one direction or another.
And then there was another professor who was a history professor.
And, uh, we were great friends.
I mean, we're, we were great friends.
Um, and fantastic, fantastic, just excellent storyteller, really riveting.
I was friends with his nephew that lived with him.
So we'd go visit.
And so we'd, um, sometimes me and all the kids, you know, not alone, but like, I think maybe even alone a few times, but, um, you know, we'd, we'd play chess.
Or like talk or maybe drink some wine.
And he was just a fascinating, awesome person.
And, um, so I did have after that other.
Academics, mostly men, but some women that they were always good mentors and supporters and, you know, just honorable people.
And so I have had, um, really, really good experience with academic.
Um, people, I don't have these horror stories of all these horrible people doing awful things in academia.
Everywhere I went, people wouldn't want to take me serious at first.
Um, not everywhere, but many places they did.
Who's this crazy person, you know?
But then by the end of my time there, you know, I'd found there to be, it had been a mentor that'd look out for me or, um, they would, um, decide that they had been mistaken in their impressions at the beginning.
And, you know, I've had a marvelous time in graduate school, most of my life.
I like graduate school, but I guess, I mean, I'd do another degree if I could, but I have to focus on, um, um, maybe work life for a while.
Hmm.
Um, I'm still curious if, so tell me a little bit about your, what you remember of your early reading experience.
Um, my mother tells me I was reading very young.
I don't remember like one or two or something, but I don't remember any of that.
And I don't know if it's true.
Um, I don't, you know, I don't remember exactly what she said, but she was saying that I was recognizing letters and reading very, very young.
I don't know how it is, but I was always a fast reader.
Um, probably in first grade, maybe it was first or second grade when I moved to Indian land.
I remember they had these little, um, I, you might remember and they might, I don't know if they had them when you were a kid.
I don't know if it was just when I was a kid.
Cause we're a couple, a decade or two apart, I think.
But, um, cause I, I was a kid, young child in the eighties and an older child in the nineties.
So they, we had these like weekly readers or something.
It's kind of little pamphlets or little brochures that are a couple of pages and you'd have to read it and then answer some questions or something.
And I just, you know, and then the teachers would get mad at me, like, you're not reading it.
And, um, and my son's like that too.
He reads so fast.
I'm like, you're not reading it.
You know, and I don't think he does completely read it.
You know, this is, but, um, but he does, if you ask him questions, he, he's comprehended what he's read.
And so they would ask me, then I did the test and I passed and they were shocked and they're like, okay, so you can read really fast.
So the whole, you know, they didn't believe I could read, um, as fast as I could.
Yeah, this is part of, uh, what, this is a similar aspect of my own history.
I think you were probably even more precocious than I was, but I was terribly, I think so, but I was terribly precocious when I was a kid.
So there's a, I mean, I'll share a brief story.
Um, you know, when I was a kid, what we would read, uh, in kindergarten was fun with Dick and Jane.
Right.
Right.
So see Jane.
I think I've heard of that.
Yeah.
See Jane run.
There's a film called that, but, um, see Jane run.
Dick has ball.
Dick throws ball for a dog.
Dog gets ball kind of thing.
Right.
So Mrs.
Rounds, my kindergarten teacher, I was super excited to go to school.
She called my mom in for a parent teacher conference.
And this is a story my mom told me.
And she said, I'm, you know, I'm sorry.
This is so-and-so, but, uh, I I'm sorry to tell you this, but Darren has a learning disability.
Oh, really?
How, how did you discover this?
And she said, well, you know, in the reading part of class, he doesn't pay any attention.
Seems like he's off in another universe.
I, I don't think.
Doug chases ball.
Right.
Exactly.
Yeah.
The other kids are going like, duh, ah, guh.
Not too cached on them.
Right.
They're, they're children.
It's okay.
Everybody's different.
So my mom said, you know, Darren's reading 2001, a space odyssey at home by Arthur C.
Clark.
My husband and I are having trouble understanding that book.
Have you read any Arthur C. Clark?
Yeah.
So, you know, I was reading science fiction novels by the time I was in kindergarten.
Yeah.
I don't think I was doing that.
I really don't.
So I think if we want to play the who's more precautious, I think you win.
Well, there could be, there could be some modest exaggeration in my story or my memory.
I'm Italian and we have a problem with hyperbolizing things.
So, you know, but, but yeah, I think I only learned this word hyperlexic from one of my unusually minded friends pretty recently.
And it seems like you and your son, you know, are, are clearly hyperlexic.
So what did you, what did you like to read as a young girl and a teenager?
Just give me some.
I don't remember.
Oh, okay.
That's fine.
Um, I can try to remember.
Um, I don't know.
I guess I read everything I could.
How did you get books?
Library.
Oh, I read a, like I would read mythology and all the fairy tales and all the literature.
I guess I read everything, but we had to read the Bible all the time.
So I was reading the Bible constantly and all of this religious literature.
Okay.
What did you make of the Bible?
Oh, I mean, I still like the Bible.
I don't have a problem with the Bible, but I didn't like the religious literature.
No, darling.
I'm still busy.
Thank you.
I found, I found the Bible completely incomprehensible.
I loved, I was precocious.
I love to read almost any book I could get my hands on.
I found the Bible totally incomprehensible.
I could not make heads or tails of it as a kid.
Um, I guess it was like a collection of stories because we did, you know, go through it.
I mean, it had been read to me over and over and we've discussed everything in detail.
And, you know, it's always like, you know, here, here's this part.
And this is what, like, this is what we're supposed to understand from this.
So there's lots of, um, study of it.
Well, it's also powerful because, um, I don't know.
It's hard for me to know what you were exposed to as a young person.
Uh, but for me, I wasn't really exposed to anything that was highly metaphoric.
I mean, um, to be clear, my primary teachers throughout all of my life up until maybe my thirties were science fiction writers.
Um, so I read hundreds, if not thousands of science fiction stories.
Um, and those were the people that I, I guess that literature is metaphoric, but I, I didn't really understand.
I didn't have a good grasp of metaphor, I think.
Well, were they, um, utopian science fiction or just like science fiction?
Dystopian, utopian, both.
Mostly.
That's a really rich, rich area of metaphor.
It is.
It is.
But I, I, you know, I understood it as, um, a sort of a view from above and a view from beyond of what the humans usually think and do.
So these people seem to me like prophets, right?
Or really insightful, intelligent humans, way more insightful and intelligent than most of the people I was ever around.
There is something that I'll mention though, from my childhood, but it's important, which is around the time I was eight, my mother started to go to feminist meetings.
Um, the national organization of women, and she would take me to those meetings.
I used to read Ms. Magazine shoot, bring it home.
And this was actually my first exposure to intelligent adults.
Those, in those meetings, there were intellectuals.
There were people who were philosophically sophisticated.
Women were philosophically sophisticated.
Um, women are people.
Yes.
No, but I mean, there weren't any men is what I'm trying to say.
Um.
Oh, at the feminist meeting?
Right.
I was the only.
They didn't let men go.
No, they let, they let me go until I reached a certain age, at which point there was a big controversy and I couldn't go any, which was about 12.
Um, pretty young, but those women were the first truly intelligent human beings that I ever was able to be around.
Um, and I was absolutely, uh, adoring of the, I wanted to be with them all the time.
Um, because the other people that I was mostly around were not particularly smart.
Um, well, you get bored.
Yeah.
Especially if you're precocious.
Um, that's my point.
Like you're bored out of your mind.
Well, I wasn't particularly bored with it, with interacting with other people, but the, a lot of times they, um, and nobody really picked on me particularly either.
But like, I have to say my kids at my school were very kind, you know, um, going to mostly, at least, at least that was my experience.
Um, nobody was, uh, everybody was nice to me.
Um, maybe they didn't pay that much attention, but nobody was mean, you know, I was, you know, and they're all, um, you know, complimentary.
But, um, you, and so there, I was probably interested enough in social things to not, uh, be that bored just cause I didn't have someone to talk about.
I don't know, play dough with or something, but you end up, uh, being.
In, in theoretically, you know, there's in case, there are cases when you're surrounded by people that.
Um, don't have appreciation for learning.
To put it nicely.
Um, they're going to be attacking you.
We're not being like them.
And you don't even, you don't even fathom, like, why would I attack you for not being up to my level, but they're attacking you for not being on their level thinking you're so haughty.
So you're not even sitting there trying to be haughty, but they're attacking you cause they, they, they think you're haughty or they think you think you're better than them.
And, um, so you end up having to deal with a lot of weird, um, I, most of the time I didn't notice it.
You know what I mean?
Cause I'm not paying attention, but like you can, um, I read a book once that explained it really well.
Um, and again, I've never had an IQ test.
I don't know if I have a very high IQ or not.
I don't know.
And it doesn't really matter.
But if you're putting students in special education that have a low IQ, there are certain, you know, percentage that I don't 10 or 20 off from regular average.
Well, if you're, if you're putting people with 30 off average or something like this, you, they get special classes, but if you get people with 30 above, you're putting them into the mass and expecting them to perform.
And not only perform at the same level academically with all of them, when you're bored out of your mind with like the topic or whatever, you know, it's like, that's partly probably why I was just started going crazy in high school.
It was just like, you know, there was no academic challenge at some point.
And so then I just started paying attention to everything else.
Parents take me out of school.
Then I'm in college and I excelled in college.
You know, but there, not only that, but like in many cases, I'm not saying this happened to me at my school, but there, you have a situation where that precocious child is supposed to function in that average child setting where the average children are going to be not liking them or treating them differently.
And oftentimes treating them badly.
Um, and then when you go, the precocious child goes and complains to some adult or same thing, well, you're so smart.
You should be able to handle them.
Yeah.
And this is things that if I had ever complained about anything, you know, I remember my aunt or probably other people in my family, well, if you're so smart, you should be able to manage all of that.
It's like, no, there's like 50 of them.
I don't know what they're upset about, you know, and I don't know what's going on here.
You know, my, it is not my job to be so smart to manipulate everybody socially when I'm really want to read a book, you know, or whatever.
So I don't, you know, and then, then that school experience then sort of translates or ends up being kind of repeated or something in, um, I wouldn't say it's because of the school experience being, but you find similar analogous situations for adults in, you know, out in the.
Of course.
Yeah.
The world.
And it's not fair, um, that, but that's, I don't like saying it's not fair, but I mean, it's, it's kind of skewed or out of, it's not logical to expect.
If you don't expect somebody with a lower IQ to function normally in an average environment, you should not expect someone with the same amount of difference, higher IQ to function.
Um, well in the, in the average society, because not necessarily cause they can't find ways to manage with life, but, but because they're going to be attacked in different and special ways by people who, um, don't like them just because they're themselves.
And just because they calling them like, you think you're better.
You think you're smart.
And I've never liked the concept of jealousy either.
Cause I don't tend to feel jealousy.
Or if I start to feel jealousy, I say, well, you don't know the whole story or everybody's got their own path or, well, that's something to aspire to, but I never ever went.
I'm jealous of that person.
I want to, to, um, hate them.
Like, you know, you know, if you shoot my dog, I might hate you, but I'm not going to hate you.
Cause you live in a mansion, you know, and you've had a lucky life.
Cause I don't know what kind of sorrows you're dealing with internally.
And even if you aren't, it's, you're not me, you know, I've got mine and you've got yours.
So I don't care, but, um, you know, there's this crabs in the bucket metaphor or whatever analogy.
And, and there's that kind of thing.
So fortunately most, um, you know, a lot of people are able to, uh, find their, find a place in, in society where they fit, regardless of their, um, outlook or capacity.
Um, everybody's got their own unique thing, you know, well, most people, many, many people, like you might have an average IQ, but you're a fantastic creative carpenter or, you know what I mean?
So it doesn't necessarily make, I wouldn't ever say one makes that matters that much.
You know, everybody's going to find their, everybody's a unique composition and they, if they can self-actualize.
Um, if they can, I just remembered, I actually have a camera that I use.
That's why it always looks better, but I guess it's okay now.
Uh, it's just that my laptop, computer, uh, camera, but, um, everybody's got something they can contribute if they're self-actual, if they find a way to self-actualize.
Um, and self-realize, not everyone gets that chance for whatever, um, you know, circumstantial reasons or whatever internal, um, laws they have that prevent them from seeing that they can do that.
Um, you know, whatever injuries they've had or whatever, but, um, you know, everybody can do that.
So I don't go around going, I'm better, but I'm always accused of you think you're so smart.
You think you're so much better, you know, not always.
Okay.
That's an exaggeration, but you know, there are people that come at you like that.
And it's kind of like, where's that coming from?
Cause I'm not treating you like that.
Right.
But that's where jealousy comes in.
And I think that a lot of people hate intelligent people.
It's not, it's, you can be beautiful, handsome.
I guess some people don't like beautiful people.
I don't know, but like, I haven't dealt with jealousy on that, um, in that area.
But like, I think generally people hate people and you just look on social media, you know, I'll be like, I have a PhD in this subject and this is why I have an informed opinion on it.
They'll be like, Oh, you're a PhD that the, you know, first of all, you know, it's usually, you know, they're just like, you don't know anything.
What does that, how does that make you know anything?
I watched a YouTube video.
You're an idiot.
You think, you know what I mean?
And people will attack.
You know, I thought when I get a PhD, I'll be able to say, I know something.
And maybe people will give me a little respect as certain people might, but most people just tell you, you're an idiot.
Why should you have a PhD that makes you stupider?
You know, cause at least they're smarter than you and they didn't go through all that nonsense, you know?
So, um, there's a real hatred of intelligence on, on mass.
And I guess it's the same phenomenon is this just, we don't want to feel dumb or we don't want to feel less than.
Okay.
So now I think we're getting into some interesting terrain that I'd like to explore a little more deeply.
Um, and I want to sort of make a little note about what you just said there, because I, I can't speak to how it may be in other countries.
But I will say some things about my country, the country I live in, which I don't actually feel like I belong to or belongs to me.
It just happens to be where I was born and where I've grown up.
Um, sort of an accident of fate, if you will.
Um, so firstly, when I was a kid in Stockton in probably the year, let me see, probably 1974, uh, at my elementary school, which was called Tully C. Knowles, um, a very strange thing occurred.
Um, you may have heard the term men in black.
Uh, so men in black showed up at our school out of the blue.
There were four of them and they began testing the children over a period of.
No way.
Yeah.
And they picked out, um, nine of us.
And after the two weeks of testing.
And I spent a lot of time in those tests and they were literally like wearing black suits, black hats.
Um, in the rooms, they weren't wearing black sunglasses, but outside of the rooms there, they were actually just men in black.
And they were from the government.
That's all we knew.
Right.
They're from the government.
Yeah.
Quote, unquote.
And so they told the principal and the teachers that we nine, um, which, which were like kids from third grade to sixth grade in the school.
Um, we would be, uh, allowed to tell, to have a special class.
Right.
This is like, you're saying like, well, maybe the, the smart people shouldn't have to only be with the regular people.
Right.
So we were.
Maybe not.
Yeah.
We were.
And by the way, um, in, in, you know, I don't have much experience of high school cause I was a runaway, but, um, in elementary school, I certainly.
Realized that I could, I could outperform most of the other kids with some exceptions in most of the subjects.
Um, but I didn't, uh, I didn't lord that over the other kids and I didn't judge them.
I love them.
I thought it was amazing to be together with other children.
I learned from the unique learning styles of each of the other children.
For years, I thought they must all be smarter because it's so easy for them to see, um, simple answers.
Yeah.
Like this is this and that's that.
And I was like, wow, how do you know?
You know?
Cause like, I'm like, how is it not only thinking a million billion things, you know?
Right.
Exactly.
No, I agree.
So I, I didn't feel, um, holier than thou.
I knew that I had, uh, the capacity to perform very well academically.
To radically outperform my grade.
But, um, it didn't make me proud and I didn't get attacked very often.
In fact, most of the kids, when they made fun of me, they would make fun of me in kind of a playful, uh, and, um, I don't know what the right word is like positive way.
I remember there was just teasing.
Yeah.
They would call me the banana brain scientist.
This one Asian kid who was quite smart himself.
Right.
He would like, he'd be like, you're the banana brain scientist.
Um, right.
Um, and I was, that's not, that's not malicious.
That's not, that's not.
Uh, nobody, nobody really.
Yeah.
So I didn't, there was, you know, there was some, there was a little bit of haze in here and there, but it was pretty minor.
Um, and there were a bully or two that sort of picked me out cause I was fairly popular.
Like most of the kids in all the grades liked me cause I was friendly and I liked them and I was kind of charismatic or whatever.
But, um, so firstly, I loved the other children.
Um, I didn't judge them.
It was apparent to me that school was mostly making them dumber and fucking like messing them up.
Um, it was, it was like normalizing them.
Right.
Each of the children seem to have unique forms of intelligence and gifts that weren't sort of in the main curve of what was expected.
So those kids got inhibited and made to become normalized.
And I saw this, I couldn't, I couldn't articulate it back then, but I recognized it and I didn't like that.
Um, I think I didn't notice any of that.
Like I just, I wasn't noticing anybody else suffering, you know, I was just super excited to be with the other kids.
It was amazing.
I love them.
I was sort of, um, difference philic.
So the kids that were very unique, I liked them even more.
And if they were from a different ethnicity, I, I would, I'm ethnophilic.
If, if they have a different ethnicity.
Well, it's curiosity.
Like, oh, what's that different kind of aspect.
It's not just that.
It almost seemed like, um, it seemed, this may seem a weird thing to say, but I don't care really.
Uh, I've never cared much about appearing weird.
Um, it seemed like part of me that I had not discovered was alive in them.
And so getting to know them was like seeing another aspect of myself.
I felt related.
Well, that's, that's true because we're all from the same DNA trunk.
And so everybody is kind of a, a different version of that.
So at your core, it's the same.
So you're like, oh, this is, it, it, it doesn't make not sense.
I mean, some of the kids, um, acted in ways that were bigoted or racist or sexist.
And there was a lot of that still going on in, you know, middle America and seventies,
particularly a lot of sexism, um, meaning, you know, uh, looking down on women particularly.
Um, but no, anyway, that, that was no part of my thing.
So the, the, the men in black came and they were like, these kids get to tell the teachers what they want to learn.
One day a week, they get to have their own class.
They tell the teachers what they want.
Teachers will give you money.
You bring in whatever these kids want and let them learn whatever they want to study.
Um, so we have that for two years, but when, when I, when it first happened, I was in fifth, it was in the beginning of fifth grade for me.
So we have that for two years at that elementary school.
And I don't know.
I mean, I like to tell the story cause it's mysterious and it's like men in black and what was going on.
Like, were they grooming us for, you know, something special later or whatever.
Um, but it just, they picked one out of you, maybe.
You just don't know about the other ones.
Well, actually one of those, um, girls, Karen Gutierry, she kind of had a crush on me throughout elementary school.
And she became like the strategic advisor to the military of Canada.
Right.
She like, you know, she definitely, um, earned her girls.
Yeah.
She excelled.
And a lot of those, a lot of the other kids excelled as well.
I didn't particularly, cause I didn't go on to high school.
Um, so yeah.
Okay.
Here's the, the other thing that I, that I bookmarked about what you were saying earlier.
I don't know how it is in other countries, but the education in the United States is horrifically bad.
And it is designed to keep the common people stupid.
Um, I remember that when I was in my early twenties, I took a junior college class, uh, with Richard speaks at Santa Rosa Junior College.
And he was trying to convince me to become a teacher.
He thought, you know, I had a gift for this.
And I couldn't imagine committing five years to something that, you know, I couldn't even imagine if I was going to be alive that long.
Like the future didn't seem like the kind of thing I could bet on.
So I didn't do it, but he, he asked me to teach a class with him the next semester and he set it up so that I could.
Um, and we had 90 students, they were, um, mostly white, uh, upper middle class kids between 16 and 27.
Um, probably B-ish grade point average, uh, high school graduates.
Not bad.
Four of them could compose a sentence in English.
Four out of 90, right?
Maybe the same number could compose a paragraph in English.
Well, now you've got AI and Grammarly and all this stuff just as crutches.
Sure.
But, but what I wanna be clear about is that this is a political agenda in the United States.
People that are that poorly educated cannot evaluate arguments.
They cannot evaluate statements in their own language.
And I think part of what you may have experienced in being attacked for being intelligent, to whatever degree you may have had that experience.
Not a lot. It wasn't like the defining feature of my life.
On the contrary, for the most part, it's, it's been helpful.
I get it.
But in the United States today, what we are seeing politically is the repercussions of catastrophically poor education.
And so what we are seeing is sort of science denialism.
And I get that there's problems in science, right?
We are seeing the denial of any kind of intellectual authority.
Oh, who are you?
Right.
Oh, you're Mr. Smarty pants.
You have a degree.
Yes.
Who cares?
You know, I know what's going on.
I'm not the idiot that has a degree.
You know, you've spent all that time and I already know.
You know, they don't, but they don't even understand what the process is and what the point of it is or where it fits into the larger picture.
Right.
Right.
So it's, it's personally offensive to them that they are not the arbiters of the authorization of knowledge.
And this is a terrifying situation because this is the kind of thing that gives birth to fascism and related dysfunctions of social order and hierarchy and motivation orientation.
Right.
Well, this is definitely not PC and I'll probably be attacked for it at some point.
But like, if you tell a population, you know, black is white or let's other colors.
Let's say yellow is purple.
Okay.
So purple is yellow and I'm, I'm born.
I grow up.
I learned it.
Okay.
This is orange and this is green.
And, um, I didn't want to go into orange and red cause I got an, an argument the other day with orange, about orange and red with someone, but I was like, that's orange.
Like that's red, you know, but it was actually orange, red.
Anyway, so you got orange and green here and then you're consistently told, no, that doesn't matter.
You can choose whichever color you want it to be.
Or no, actually orange is green and green is orange or whatever kind of thing.
And, um, that at some point they're just gonna like, they might kind of, they might not even know what to think anymore, but even if they do know inside deep inside, they're going to be afraid to, to say, no, actually this is orange.
You know, in the English language, we identify this as orange and we identify this as green.
And, um, that means when, if they can't do something for something as fundamental as a color black and white, you know, orange and green.
Then, um, how are they ever going to be able to distinguish between reality when it comes to the finer issues?
Who's attacking who?
Uh, so many Americans are constantly repeating this nonsense, probably largely inspired by bots, you know, but, um, obviously we've got, um, propagandists here as well.
But, um, you know, that, you know, well, America's causing the war in Ukraine.
No, it's not.
Russia attacked Ukraine.
You know, that means Russia made the decision to attack.
It didn't have to do it because of this or that reason.
It made the choice to attack a sovereign country.
Okay.
Now we can talk, you know, if you want to have sophisticated arguments with that, you know, I can sit down and write a book about it and you can read my book.
Or you can write a book about it and I can read your book.
But, um, you know, at this point you're just having people repeat that.
And if you say, Hey, that's not actually what happened.
They just tell you you're crazy, you know, like online basically is what I'm talking about.
But like you can see it in online discourse.
You can see it when you're somebody posts something and you comment on it.
Somebody's coming back and telling you you're an idiot because obviously Putin's the biggest victim in all of this, you know, and again, a little hyperbole.
But Russia's the victim and Putin had to do what he had to do kind of argument.
I mean, that argument, that argument arises from when I've heard it anyway, what I have heard of it.
Is it arises from the perspective that the possible inclusion of the of the Ukraine in NATO is what caused that situation?
It doesn't matter. NATO is a defensive alliance.
It's not an offensive alliance.
You know, you're going to have somebody argue against that.
But the reason, um, Ukraine wasn't.
I mean, okay, I'd rather, you know, sit down and double check everything before I start making arguments to this on this topic, because it's so sensitive.
But that is what they're saying.
But NATO was not a threat.
And we've been more than generous and friendly and understanding and letting Russia do whatever it wants.
The reason some countries wanted into NATO is because of their historical experience of being oppressed and killed and murdered by, you know, the Soviets or the Russians in some way.
So they're literally afraid of it again.
And it was never, um, it's, it was a, it's a cold war.
Um, wait a minute.
I'm trying to remember when it was founded.
But anyway, so you're just having, um, an idea that Europe needs to defend itself from Russian aggression and, um, or the Soviets or whatever.
I need to look that up.
I can't even remember at this point when it was, now I feel like an idiot.
Um, from what I recall, it's all based on the Soviet, you know, anyway, we were defending Europe from the Soviets.
And the Eastern European countries wanted to get into NATO after the, the collapse of the Soviet Union, because they were afraid Russia would re revent, um, restore itself and come after them.
And now they are.
That's why they wanted NATO because then they have the defense guarantee.
And we promised Ukraine, we would protect them if they gave up their nukes because we didn't want all these little crazy, you know, Eastern Europeans and, and Caucasians and, you know, central agents having access to nukes, you know, we should have it in some good, solid Russian, Russian brothers.
You know, they're responsible guys in their hands and we've done nothing but coddle the emergent Russian Federation and Putin the entire time.
Yeah, obviously there's going to be some kinds of rivalries or something, but we've always let them do become increased.
We've let Putin stay.
We've never done anything when he was weaker to push back against him to make him stop.
So this whole, um, we're the victim of the West.
That's been, they, if I did an analysis of their security, um, documents, um,
Now I'm forgetting words.
Well, like I wrote a paper and I haven't ever finished the second half, but if you look at their security strategic documents ever since like 1991, you can see how over, over the years they've, um, increasingly portrayed themselves as this victim.
And there's the enemy and it's after us and it's very vague, but eventually they start naming the U.S.
And it's all about how the U.S. wants to.
Oh, my goodness.
Wow.
Congratulations.
For your tooth.
For your tooth.
Go clean your face.
Um, so we'll talk about that later.
Right now.
I'm in the middle of something.
Okay.
You're not going to give me your tooth till you get money.
She's keeping her tooth.
Right?
Yeah.
Oh, no.
Um, I really wanted that tooth.
Um, and you can't afford to buy it either.
No, I can't.
Yeah.
It's too much.
Too much to ask for.
I've, um, yeah.
So whatever.
Um, it's really disingenuous of them to be like, Oh, we, the documents.
You can see their narrative and to what extent they believe it or not.
It's delusional at any rate.
It's delusional because they have to know it to some extent.
We never, uh, the United States never had this, um, really good strategy on how to, you know, some people might have talked about it, but they, they, they lost their influence and prestige in Central Asia, the Caucasus.
You know, they've seen us even Eastern Europe, I think, I suspect, um, they're not, they're doing effective things to make us seem strong and smart and right.
And we have this national kind of ideology of we're like the beacon of liberty, you know, since 1776 or whatever, but we're not doing a lot to really keep that reputation up.
And it's just sort of like, uh, we could have done so much more over the past years to do that.
Um, I don't know what secret business deals go on and what makes people mad, billionaires mad in Russia, but there's the, the idea that the Americans have been like, we can't let Russia fall apart.
You know, any further, it's been kind of the driving, you know, idea about Russia.
So why now they're like, oh, you know, this is all an American plot to take away our sphere of influence that rightly belongs to us.
So we're going to murder, you know, thousands of you, I don't know how many Ukrainians and destroy half the country's infrastructure and pollute everything and make everyone suffer just because we're not getting our way.
Cause we're afraid NATO's really going to attack us.
I mean, if NATO was building up a really strong force and we started attacking Russia, that would be, you know, if, if we all like ganged up and started, started attacking Russia first, that would be a whole lot different argument than like Russia just trying to annex part of Ukraine and saying it's all the West's fault.
So at any rate, you know, those are just my observations.
I haven't sat and written papers on this or I could make better arguments.
But the point is that people, if you just go back to the very simple thing, which country invaded the other?
If I came over to your house and set your kitchen on fire, like, you know, put dynamite in there and blow it up.
I can't go to the police and say, well, yeah, but he was, I have good reason to believe he was planning to steal my house.
Or, you know, I don't know, he was planning to take over my apartment block that I own and kick out, you know, separate my apartment block into little apartment blocks so that I am, I am weak.
You know, like, you're crazy. You're the one that went over and set this guy's kitchen on fire and blew it up, blew up a quarter of his house.
Do you, you know, you'd have to start coming over and trying to destroy my house first.
Right.
And then I go to the court and say, I'm a victim. I'm, I need help.
And then the court can be like, okay, you're the victim. You need help.
You don't go and like destroy someone else's houses because you believe that they're going to hurt you in the future.
Yes. I mean, it seems that, um, at least from my not particularly informed perspective, I'll, you know, admit I'm, I'm no expert, but it seems that NATO's, uh, primarily sort of a containment.
The motivation is containment, not.
More like containment in case.
Right.
Right.
And the, the, the countries in it don't even have, you know, don't even particularly want to let new countries in it.
They're just hammering down the door for so long, begging to get in.
Like, well, here's all the conditions you have to meet.
Maybe.
And with Ukraine and Georgia, it's like big maybes.
Uh, but that's the reason they're giving, you know?
Yeah. I mean, it seems that, um, the concern, uh, one concern.
Is Russian expansionism.
It's pretty big concern.
Well, if they can.
And Ukraine, Ukraine's been backing them off or holding them off.
Um, surprisingly.
Um, not, I mean, they couldn't do it without our help, but they certainly, it was, yeah, it was created in 1949.
So, yeah, that's what I was trying to get at before.
Um, but I was, then I was suddenly like, wait, when, what, wait, when, um, what happened?
Um, what happened?
So at any rate, um, oh yeah.
So I think we've, you know, I don't know.
I mean, I don't know all the details about why decisions, certain decisions are made, you know?
Um, and, you know, you know, there's been a lot of corruption in Ukraine.
That's true.
I, but, but I mean, not certainly not less than in Russia.
Right.
Like, oh, Ukrainians got corruption in their government.
Like, okay, let Russia kill all the people.
That's a great, you know, that's fair.
You know, these are these.
Like, uh, what you're gonna, you're going to destroy a nuclear reactor there and poison the whole f***ing area.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Um, so, you know, so there's, there's corruption.
There's certainly corruption there.
I wouldn't deny it.
Um, there's strange things happening there.
You know, maybe they don't want to send all kinds of weapons and money if they don't know exactly where it's going and don't want to have some control over it, um, about how it's used.
But, um, and so I, again, I don't study Ukraine deeply.
I don't, but I do, it does seem like we've prevented them from fighting back in a lot of ways.
Um, like I said, there might be some reasons I don't know about, but, uh, until I have better information about those reasons, I mean, it really seems like we've just been tying, tying their hands to a certain extent.
Um, and that just led to the protraction of war.
And that's a lot of it because we don't want to provoke Russia, which is why this is the problem.
Um, how are we the ones that are so aggressive and putting poor Russia into just a place where it can't do anything but kill everybody around it, which it's always done.
Um, for the same reasons historically as always.
Um.
Um, when our biggest concern is like, we don't want Russia to fall apart and we don't want to make them too mad because they're, you know, we want to keep them.
If we're nice now, they won't get worse.
And that's how we've got the world under nuclear threat, at least in rhetoric, because we continuous, it's the bully and the, they want to say we're the bullies.
In some ways we are, but we at least have some principles that they don't have, or we have had principles that they don't have.
Now we're moving more towards authoritarianism, which is what their model is.
So that is something we have to work on here.
Um, but American, um, you know, we have the idea that they don't have the same idea.
So why don't we live up to our ideals?
They don't, their ideals is not attractive to anyone.
Um, normal, but at least we have ideals that would be attractive and have been attractive if we hadn't constantly, you know, thrown the little peoples and nations under the bus over and over for so many years just to appease Russia.
So all of this is rich.
It's really rich.
And, um, whether I'm right or wrong, or there's more to it, or the things I don't know yet, because I haven't written a whole dissertation on it.
I haven't explored every single thing.
I mean, the stuff I've observed over the years, you can watch it, you can see it, you can kind of predict what's going to happen with some accuracy based on those observations.
Um, you know, you've read a lot, you've talked a lot.
This is what it looks like.
Um, you know, there's, there's, um, I can't remember my point, but like, what I'm saying is like, that's how it seems.
And there's things that I might not know, or there's details, but if a person can't tell the difference between orange and green, you're not able to discuss any of these things with that person.
You're just gonna say, well, I don't really think that's true, because I've got 20 years experience, or 30 years, or however many 25 years, observing this part of the world and interacting with it and living in it and studying it in some depth in certain areas.
Um, now I'm a historian, so I studied history, not like contemporary events as much.
Um, although I did do a lot of research on the war in Chechnya.
I wrote a thesis on the war in Chechnya.
I wrote a thesis on like, you know, movements to escape the Soviet Union and create a different kind of federation.
And like, you know, so I do know some of the political stuff, uh, ideologies and so on have been around for generations.
So, but that doesn't mean I know everything about nuclear talks between the US, Russia and Ukraine, you know, and, you know, after the breakup from the Soviet Union or something.
So if, if I want to talk to somebody who knows stuff about that, and we can have a discussion, I'm happy to do that.
But you can't talk to a lot of people because A, they hate you because you think you're smart and they already know.
B, half the country's been educated to not know the difference between orange and green.
And so, uh, how can they make distinctions in complex, nuanced topics, which have lots of, um, well, I might make all my points when you make all your points.
But then like, you know, tomorrow we're like, well, what about all these other counterpoints?
And then what about the thing and this other thing and these deeper issues?
And so if you don't know the difference between black and white, you don't have the patience to appreciate that somebody might know something more than you.
You're not going to be able to have an effective role as a person qualified to participate in the politics of your country because you're just a, you're just a, um, opinionaire.
Well, no, you're, you're, um, a manipulated object.
You're, you're, you're poli, you're poli, you've given up your political power to parrot whatever you're being told and you're dangerous.
Yeah.
You're a, you're a propaganda receptacle.
Well, a propaganda receptacle who goes to a voting booth.
Right.
And gets aggressive and violent.
If someone tells you, Hey, you're wrong.
And you'll be screaming.
The earth is flat and NASA is trying to tell you it's, it's round.
And therefore Trump is good.
And he might be Jesus reincarnate.
And Putin is the real victim in this.
And if you say, well, that's not true.
Well, how do you know you're an idiot?
You got a PhD in Russian history.
All right.
No, I mean, it really is tragic though.
Um, I watched in the United States, uh, you know, in our current situation, both of the primary political parties, if they could even be reasonably called that.
Because I don't, I don't even really understand if those are worth calling parties.
But if we think of the left as the Democrats and the right as the Republicans.
You mean left as left, the, the left leftish centrists and right as anything from rightish centrists to like complete psychos.
Yeah.
Yeah, sure.
Far left.
I could put in that category too.
Me too.
Absolutely.
Me too.
Um, I'm not here to judge political parties.
I don't actually believe that what goes on in the United States, uh, reasonably qualifies as a political system.
No, it's just two gangs.
It's a kleptocracy of various, it's like a sort of, some sort of Hollywood, like a mimic, mimicking of Hollywood klepto, warring kleptocracies.
Like what, what kind of power and, and money and situations can we steal from, from the people and each other and get away with it.
It's something like that.
Maybe.
But I always thought they were just going back and forth sharing, um, like parasites kind of.
Yeah.
I mean, at some point there's agendas and there's reasons.
And then at some point it's like, let's both take our turns, like parasitizing everything.
Um, so what I was trying to say is, um, our population is so poorly educated in general, it's a topology.
Let's be clear, right?
There's mountains and valleys.
There's well-educated persons and perhaps groups.
And there's very, the vast morass of people is very poorly educated.
But in the, probably in the, in the late seventies and eighties, the Republicans directly went after education in the United States.
And they went after funding for public education, for, um, public television.
Uh, they sort of presented these things as like somehow a communist plot, which is still part of the rhetoric.
Well, they're still doing that now.
Exactly.
Except for like the communists is George Soros or something.
Right.
So, you know, they generated, they produced generations of uneducated Americans that could be easily manipulated by propaganda and also would despise the possibility of anyone who could introduce actual insight.
Right.
Just, there's this weird, misguided, uh, attack on anything that might represent intelligence, like authorized intelligence.
Right.
This is despised by people who are too poorly educated to write a sentence in their own language.
They only speak one language and they can't write a sentence in this language.
Um, many of them.
Right.
So it seems to me like, like the, um, evolution of a, of a complex plot where you want the vast majority of Americans to be too poorly educated, to even evaluate a statement in English.
And those people will obviously be very upset if somebody appears intelligent.
Um, but the funny thing is like, you know, when I interact with people on a day to day basis, I don't sit and go, Oh, this guy's well, I think it's perfectly natural.
I think we all do it.
It it's in the Bible.
I think, um, you know, I, I used to work for this Greek guy who had a pizzeria or something and he would always call me, Hey Marie, like, Hey, you idiot.
I didn't know what Marie meant.
Somebody told me it was, it was not like it's stupid.
Um, which he called everybody that, you know, it wasn't just, I wasn't particularly dumb or doing anything wrong.
He just was a jerk and, um, treated everyone abusively and was calling everyone this word.
But, um, I think, and I don't, I, I read, no, it could be wrong.
I could be wrong.
But like in the Bible, what I remember figuring out at some point, like there's this part in the Bible where he, um, you know, Jesus says, like, even if you're calling somebody.
Like, he's like murder, somebody said, like, murder is bad, you know, you're whatever.
And, but he was saying, like, even if you're thinking in your head or calling somebody stupid, it's the same as murder.
You know?
Um, and I think that the word in Greek was Marie.
That's why I think that's how I learned all that.
Like, let me see.
Um, yeah.
Yeah.
Whoever shall say to his brother, thou fool shall be in danger of hellfire.
Hellfire.
Right.
Um, you know, so you're, it's kind of like, uh, and I, I probably, the context there might be something about, um, I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't have the context that just showed the verse, but like, I, I, I remember for whatever reason, right or wrong, associating the context with, you know, well, I'm not so bad.
I'm not a murderer.
Well, Hey, if you're just calling people idiots or if you're showing this angry or you're just calling, um, you know, looking down on people like that, then you're just as bad as a murderer.
Like, you know, cause it's a scale, you know, you're already on the scale of sin or whatever.
So, um, you know, but I think it's so human and we're all doing it.
Like everybody I know, no matter how smart or stupid they are, whenever they're mad, they'll just be like that idiot or this jerk, you know, or that idiot.
You know, that's kind of just how people refer to each other when they're not doing what we want, or if you're trying to communicate with them and they don't, um, cooperate because they're just obtuse or, you know what I mean?
Like it happens all the time.
Like I can be obtuse today and you can be obtuse tomorrow.
Like, you know, or I'm not understanding your perspective and you're, or, you know, you're just, you know, sometimes a lot of times it's just like you try to go get help, but a counter and somebody's rude to you for no reason.
You know, that idiot won't help.
Let me get my task accomplished today.
Or, you know what I mean?
Like, I think it's very common to talk like that.
Um, I think, I, I feel like everyone does it.
Maybe that's not true, but.
Well, I think, I don't, I don't necessarily like really think.
Every person I meet is really stupid.
I'm usually more appreciative of whatever's going on unless they make me mad.
And then I'm like, ah, you idiot, you know?
Um, but it doesn't really mean I think they have a low IQ necessarily, but I do kind of think on mass.
Um, collectively we are stupid somehow.
I mean, we're brilliant at the same time as stupid and it's, it's amazing how easy it is to manipulate such broad masses.
And you can even manipulate very intelligent people very easily.
So, you know, I'm not sure I've quite figured out what that mechanism is, but in the cult, for example, I mean, intelligent people can join a cult.
And right now we're in a cult.
We are in cultlandia, um, you know, all around the world, there's this cult mentality growing everywhere and this authoritarianism growing everywhere.
Um, why, um, how are they so successful at this?
I think it goes back to just even ancient, um, methods of crowd control.
Like it's very, you know, certain groups figured out how to do it and every epoch they figure it out again, or they remember something from the past and they create new ways of figuring it out.
But, you know, knowledge about how to control populations or, you know, your country or whatever, your kingdom is, is, is, um, passed down.
And people used to just be able to, um, you know, figure out what to do and say and what public rituals and, and things to do.
And you've, you've got a populace that follows along and doesn't think too critically about it.
Um, there's always at least a certain percentage that's going to be, um, right there with you.
And it's easy to control that.
Um, other people might know better, but they're too tired.
They can't do anything, you know, like they don't have the capacity.
Um, you know, they're so tired after work that they don't, you know, they can't figure out how to go organize until it gets that bad.
That life is unbearable.
People just put up with it.
So, you know, that's just so in that sense, you know, there's this, there's this, um, certain percentage that it seems like.
Um, non-altruistic, uh, elites and leaders are able to always bank on being stupid.
It's very uncommon that large groups of humans remain altruistically or even humanistically motivated.
You need to get off of the video now.
Um, it seems like there's, there's a basic problem with large groups of humans.
When you get, like, there's some sort of, uh, what, uh, maximum size of a group of humans that can remain altruistic or even human.
Um, there are exceptions though, like, uh, it seems that certain features of modernity, capitalism, perhaps communism, um, these features are contagious.
Um, and they tend to consume, uh, traditional cultures and replace them.
And, uh, there's not a whole lot of complexity to.
No.
Give it.
So it's like, okay, well, just here's your line.
Repeat it.
Um, yeah, I mean, also money as a value system is lethally dangerous.
It just creates defection from relationships, right?
You can always buy someone out of a relationship.
Yeah, I was reading, um, I read it chapter two.
I don't know where that book went.
Um, it's a really good book.
I didn't read the whole book yet, but I read chapter two of Native Nations by Kathleen Duvall.
She's at UNC Chapel Hill.
So being a professor and an author and a PhD, she surely doesn't have any idea what she's talking about.
Um, no, um, so why don't you listen to her?
I'm almost embarrassed to refer to her book.
Um, chapter two was really, I think it was chapter two was really interesting because, um, her argument in their thesis is that they did have centralization of power in, in the North American, um, communities.
Um, in certain communities, but after a while, like they decided it wasn't what, it wasn't good for them.
Now I don't, I don't, it was a while, a couple of months or so, a couple of months since I read it.
So I don't remember the details of the argument, but then she said, for whatever reason, I don't know if there was environmental reasons for some of this stuff breaking down.
But it was also like, um, they decided we didn't like that experience of centralized power and they just sort of, um, or, you know, like centralized communities.
And they just sort of decentralized after that and came up, you know, kind of developed this sort of, uh, reciprocal relationship type systems that were dominant across the, the continent.
And that, um, that, that they had somehow decided that, you know, that this was preferable.
And so when the colonists came over and they're like, oh, this is all primitive, you know, actually, no, they kind of advanced to a new stage.
Um, now, again, I don't know how accurate all of this is, but it seems to be what she's arguing more or less that as far as I can recall.
And it's sort of like, so they developed very sophisticated mechanisms for, um, ensuring some level.
I mean, obviously they still had war and stuff like that, but, um, you know.
I don't know if we could call what they had.
I'm not sure we could call what they had war.
Yeah, that was the wrong choice.
They had engagements.
Yeah.
Where the point was to scare and run away.
Yeah.
They had disputes.
Save as many lives.
Yeah.
But they didn't necessarily, I don't think, I think the word war is misleading.
Although again, I'm only speaking from my limited understanding, but having spoken with indigenous
people about this, I'm straight up asking them, do you have a word in your language for war?
The answer is no.
Yeah, I did read that somewhere, um, not too long ago that it wasn't, it was more like engagements
where you'd see who was, um, scarier, but the goal was not to die.
You know, the goal was not to kill as, um, to lose as many of your men as possible.
Right.
And there were complex ways around slaughter as well.
So like to, you know, they could send out a small group of warriors or fighters from
each side.
Those people would have a combat and that would decide the issue, or you could sneak
into the enemy camp and, um, count coup against their best fighters, right?
You could grab one of their weapons and get away with it, or you could touch them with
their own weapon.
It's over.
Right.
That's the end of the engagement.
It's been decided.
Right.
So they had, say again, who would have won?
Yeah.
If there's, there's other ways to decide, um, what we think of as victory, which is mostly
a pretty stupid idea, because if you're gonna get your, your own people slaughtered and slaughter
a bunch of other people, calling that victory seems wildly confused to me, um, but, you know,
so I think they were just, I'm not saying.
Go ahead.
Hey, let me, let me just present a, a radical, um, opposite of what I've just said.
What I've heard about the Yanomami in South America is that they like to invade neighboring
villages.
They, they do large amounts of cocaine.
They like to invade the neighboring village and kill up a bunch of kids.
And they think this is hilarious.
Um, at least sometimes they do this.
Um, so there are examples of, um, very severe kind of, uh, slaughter oriented behavior that
happen in certain indigenous cultures, but it's not clear that the Yanomami were always
doing that.
Right.
It's not clear.
Well, I, from my limited knowledge of Mesoamerica and South America, I mean, those societies were
a lot more centralized and vicious, you know, um, some of them.
Um, so I, I think that that, but I'm just only talking about North America.
Um, and I don't know, like, as far as I don't, I'm not qualified to speak on the topic of what
kind of, um, violence they had.
I don't, as being human, I don't think they didn't have any violence, you know, and I don't
know exactly which kinds they were.
Um, certainly were wars later.
Um, um, um, there was rivalries and competition and stuff, but I don't know if, you know, how
violent it was before contact.
Um, I don't know.
It could have been terribly violent in certain cases.
Uh, maybe it wasn't, I don't, I have just don't really have any idea, but I did read,
you know, something that does align with what you're saying.
And I think there's probably something to that.
Um, I don't think the point was to get your whole tribe slaughtered.
You know, everybody was important.
Well, it's not just that.
If you're, if you live on the land and you're nomadic, one thing you can't really afford
to do, especially in any place where it gets cold, you cannot afford to cash up huge quantities
of weapons for a combat.
You can't do it.
You can't haul giant amounts of weapons around with you.
This kind of thing comes with settlement, right?
The capacity for war comes with, with having a settlement.
Well, they were, they were, I don't think they were all nomadic.
I think a lot of them were pretty settled.
I don't know.
I mean, there were certainly, um, civilizations with settlements, but again, these were kind
of more centralized.
And once that broke down and they spread out, I don't know if they were moving or how much
they were moving around and how much they were, um, you know, cultivating things in one
spot or, you know, in some, you know, like prehistoric societies, they would, um, rove
back and forth over a certain spot.
So they could have been cultivating certain areas and moving around.
I don't know if they had a summer.
I mean, I really, really, really don't know.
Cause I'm not a specialist on native American history, but, um, you know, it's interesting.
And I think it's really interesting that there's some, that this, this, um, thing that people
called primitive was actually perhaps more sophisticated.
Um, they had great land management, they had, and, um, they had perhaps, you know, if she's
correct, they had developed these relationship, relational, um, decentralized complex, kind of
sophisticated, I don't know if structure's the word, but, um, systems of how to balance
the power.
So nobody got too strong because they didn't like what had happened when that had happened.
So, um, I think also in the little bit that I know about, uh, a little bit that I've learned
about Blackfoot language, I'm sorry, um, it's a lot of noise here for a moment, but a little
bit that I've learned about Blackfoot language, um, there's a variety of protections sort of
built into how they conceive of identity relationships, um, all of these things that are mostly missing
from at least English.
Uh, they are aware of the danger of letting the language lead consciousness to explicit conclusions,
and they resist that, they naturally resist that, whereas in, in English, the idea of explicit
identity, no one is resisting it.
Hey, it's orange or green, Darren.
Yeah.
And it should be obvious, you know, right?
It's, this is a matter of emphatic, uh, delusional obsession in English, right?
Um, yeah, I don't remember where we went off on that tangent with, but I think you were
talking about something about, how did we get to the topic of, you were saying something
is about control, not relational in American society?
Um, yeah, I mean, so first of all, the idea of humans as individuals is pretty weird.
I mean, how do you get there?
How do you get?
Well, economic freedom.
You couldn't function, you couldn't function without your group for most of human history,
human story.
Um, and then, you know, you had, and then still a lot of societies, I mean, or if your, if your
economy is bad, you need to, you still live at your mom's, you know what I mean?
Like in many countries, you know, well, this is something where everyone sticks together
and helps each other.
They can't survive without each other.
And in America, um, or Europe, they've had a lot of prosperity, particularly in the recent
times and through the modern experience in the recent times.
Um, so people were able to, for whatever reason, go live in an apartment by themselves, um, and
pay their, pay for their needs with their salary.
This isn't now, I mean, not contributed to this individualism and individuation in a way,
um, that I mean, it's hilarious what you said, unprecedented, I think it's hilarious what
you said, because you said you could go live in an apartment, an apartment, which I think,
I think if you went to anyone who lived in a tribe, in fact, there's some, um, not sure
if I remember where I read this, let me think.
It might have been in a book called The Dawn of Everything, but it might also have been
in a book called Humankind.
Um, there were letters written by, I think, if I remember correctly, Benjamin Franklin, and
they were talking about people who had been captured by the Indians.
And Franklin said something resembling, I'm paraphrasing.
These people who have been, who have spent time with the savages do not wish to return
to our culture, no matter what we offer them.
Nobody can figure out why.
Yeah, right.
Like, I don't want to go back to this ridiculous, nonsensical idea of every man for the
every person for themselves, blah, blah, blah.
I'm not doing it, right?
And he, he cited examples where people were offered, like, a vast estate if they would
just return, you know, come home.
Yeah, but they'd have to have slaves, too.
They'd have to oppress somebody in order to make an, make that.
Finish your story.
I have a story for you.
Okay, so that's my basic point, is that this idea of individuals is wildly confused, and
some people might think, is he some kind of a communist?
What's he thinking?
I don't care what those people think, because those people are probably not particularly
insightful about human nature.
But it is a miserable existence to be in an apartment by oneself.
Well, I don't know about that, but there are worse things that can happen.
Communal life can be quite fun, but there's also, there's also the issue, I mean, a lot
of people wouldn't ever give that up, you know, because that's how they, their race, and
they, but on the other hand, you know, there's reasons people left it when they could have
the opportunity to do it, too.
So, you know, I guess it's all about the balance, you know, because in a tribe, you know, it
depends on the health, health of that group.
If you're stuck together on a tribe is the wrong word, but like, you know, if you're stuck
with a certain group all the time, you know, to what extent do they honor and appreciate
your individuality, maybe a lot, depending on the group, and maybe in a different group,
not so much, you know, so there's, you know, a lot of systems are healthy, when they, a lot
of systems can work, even a patriarchal system, when it's healthy, can be really beneficial
for everybody.
But when it's sick, then it's really damaging.
So people, like, hate that and want to get out of it, and they go to another system,
and then, like, that system is useful when it works, then can be really damaging when
it does, when it's not healthy.
So a lot of it has to do with this human psychology, you know, like, what's the health of the psyche
of the individuals making up the group?
That's probably, or the system, and that's probably going to have a lot to do with the
health of it.
You can't just be like, this system's perfect, and everybody in the system is going to be,
you know, everybody's going to be happy, and that seems like Rousseau or something,
you know, just like, human nature's good, they just need the right, you know, situation.
And I think the problem is more like human nature isn't always good.
It's a pretty good mix of bad and good and evil.
You know, we can even talk about evil as being the inability or refusal to have any group
consciousness, to the extent where you hurt the group to make your own, take your own
advantage, and to that extent, you can look at evil as an evolutionary thing, not necessarily
religious or spiritual, if you want to do that.
Like, I'm not saying you have to do that, but there was, there was, when they founded
the state of Georgia, like, they had a charter, it was set up as like a charity, kind of, the
state of Georgia in the United States.
Okay.
They set up the state, the idea was they wanted to take this tract of this piece of land and
let, I don't know, maybe people who've fallen on hard times or had some problems, like, go
and create a homestead for themselves.
And so they wanted to create this kind of, they were concerned, the people who behind this
project were worried about the monopolization of wealth and resources and land in England or
whatever, and then the rest of the colonies, you know, you've got certain people monopolizing
everything, and they're like, well, we want to have, we have a vision of, like, sort of
middle-class people on farms that, you know, support themselves and have this kind of more
egalitarian society, and they wanted to give all these people a chance for that.
And so what they did was set up Georgia to be like that, and they wouldn't allow slaves.
They wouldn't allow anyone to have slaves at the beginning, because the idea was, if
somebody can have slaves, then they can build up.
It wasn't necessarily, the founder probably had some moral problem with it, but the other,
he had to, he had to argue, he couldn't use morality as an argument to persuade people
to support his project.
He had to say, well, if we have slaves, then you're going to get inequality of wealth, and
then the project will fail, because some people are going to exploit all this labor, and they're
going to become tremendously wealthy.
And the point is that we want everybody to have sort of equal share, you know, a chance
to have a decent life.
We don't want anybody becoming poor, and we don't want anyone becoming fabulously wealthy
and oppressing the rest of the white people there, right?
So, that's why they weren't allowing slaves, but over time, and it didn't take long, they
pushed the original founders.
People who had come there and started living there got so upset, like, why can't we have
slaves?
We don't want equality.
We want our chance to become the multimillionaire, you know?
Mm-hmm.
You know, the rest be damned.
And they might not even be the ones that get to become that, but they want a chance to become
fabulously wealthy, and the only way they could do that would be to exploit slaves, enslaved
people.
And so, that's how they got rid of that project, and they ended up letting slaves in Georgia,
you know, just because of this drive to dominate and be the wealthiest and the richest and have
your chance to excel in a way that can only happen through the exploitation of others.
So, if you study world history, my impression of it is there's always these two forces, kind
of, there's the centralism, decentralism, there's, you know, quote-unquote evil and good.
There's, well, I would even say definitely evil and definitely good, but a lot of people
don't like those concepts, you know?
They don't think it's too religious.
That's why I said, well, even from an evolutionary perspective, what helps the collective and
empathy and all of these things would be considered good, because that helps the group
survive, all individuals in the group survive.
And then what's destructive of the group for your own personal gain would be considered
evil from an evolutionary perspective, because that causes more people to not survive, you
know?
But you're still coming from a standpoint of everybody should have the chance to live,
you know?
I guess if you, so those are just sort of speculations I've had.
But, so you have this centralism tendency and a decentralism.
You just look at empires all through time, you know, kingdoms, I don't know, Romans, and
then the feudalism, you know?
It just happens, the same thing happened in China, you know, like, or India or wherever.
So, you also have this, you know, tendency of people that want to oppress and enslave and
control and dominate versus people that, like, push back against that and say, that's not
right, you know, so you, you had, you know, you have that in early American history, you
have that in, in, um, many societies throughout time.
And I think, um, when we look at what's terrible and what's bad, um, and what's evil and stuff,
but, well, there's been, um, this kind of push and pull all through time.
It seems related, um, to the, the behavior of hashing, right?
Collecting up stuff in general.
Because for there to be evil, you've got to essentially have this kind of, um, incipient
and effective selfishness.
And what drives that selfishness?
It's grabbing up stuff, right?
It can be land, it can be money, it can be, uh, power transmitted to generation after generation.
In fact, the concept of inheritance is involved in this.
Well, it's my rock, you know.
Yeah.
My arrowheads, you know.
Right.
Spirited.
This is my bucket of, uh, fruit, you know.
Yeah, ownership by itself is already fairly strange, though it seems entirely ordinary to
most of us moderns.
Um, I wonder, well, people, even early humans, I need to shut my door, excuse me.
Sure.
I, I presume, I presume that early humans would have, you know, each one needed their own
whatever accoutrements for daily life.
You know what I mean?
Like you'd each, you know, would they have all had a collection of pouches and everybody
just grabs a pouch and runs out the door?
Or do they each keep their own pouch for their own tool set?
Probably each one would keep, keep their own and manage their own.
And then, um, you know, I made this tool and I put the tool in my pouch and now I have
a tool and they might've been, um, I, from what I've read and I don't, again, again, I don't
know a whole lot about prehistoric anthropology either, but from things I've read, I think they
were pretty good at sharing.
Um, like, you know, I collect this and I, you know, I collect the berries and I share it
with, you know, with the women are collecting the foraging and collecting and then like the
mango gets some meat and they bring it and they all share, you know, um, in that they were kind
of sharing around a lot.
Um, I imagine they might've, I can guess they would've been a little more fluid with things
that are necessities.
That's the currency.
So you don't have money per se, but you've got stuff flowing around as the currency.
If you've ever been in a little hippie group or something, you know, you do have this, this
is what you do.
Like you, I've got stuff around me that I use and, and this is, um, I'm sharing with, you
know, somebody comes around and you're like here, you know.
Do you need, you know, they say, I need something and you're like, oh, here, I have an extra
one.
And like the stuff just, the stuff just kind of goes around.
Um, yeah, I didn't imagine it would've been like that.
I didn't mean to say, uh, there was no ownership, right?
A person has a tool to think there was, of course there were, uh, there was something
like, um, personal belongings, right?
But, uh, I suspect that, that the desire to, um, protect or, first of all, the, the sort
of number of personal belongings was probably fairly limited, right?
It wasn't like I have a thousand things.
I have like 40 things maybe.
Um, and, uh, the, the, the altruistic concern for the group was profound enough.
I've heard stories of someone attempting to give an indigenous person something that would
make them, uh, that would change the hierarchy of relation in their group by lifting them
to like, like a large amount of food, for example, or to give them a large amount of food.
And they say, like, I can't, I can't accept that.
That would, that would violate the sort of the relational integrity of my code, right?
It's not even really a code.
It's more of a sense of like, we're all in this together.
We share in good fortune and misfortune, and none of us should be raised up by being given
something that gives us undue power or undo.
But that's code.
That's fair enough.
I agree with your point.
I think you're right.
And I do, I did get, I do get that.
That's what you meant.
I agree with that as well.
Like it, it was their relational understanding of the significance and importance of that.
And they don't want to jeopardize it.
Well, they wouldn't sacrifice it.
But it sounds like a, it does sound like a kind of code because they know if I do this,
that's what's going to happen.
And, you know, if I do that, I'll lose the respect of my group or, you know what I mean?
Like, and they kind of know what not to do.
A friend of mine recently traveled to Bhutan and, um, he was amazed.
He was amazed by the culture there and how they have preserved their traditional culture and how they, they work very diligently to create a kind of, um, a membrane.
It preserves the traditional culture against the influx of tourists and so forth.
And I'm not telling what my friend had to say about this, but it was interesting.
Um, I remember, uh, there was a movement or even maybe the king, it's a, it's a monarchy, right?
And the king there, as my friend described it as very benevolent and actually cares deeply about the people and tends to enact things for their benefit and so forth.
And he tried to institute a democracy and the people were like, no way, no, we don't want to make good decisions.
The king makes good decisions.
Uh, that's, I'm not going to do that, right?
I'm with me, but that's probably how kingship started.
Somebody was making benevolent, good decisions and then some jerk comes along and kills them and like, I'm the king now.
And if you don't listen, I'll kill you all, you know?
Yeah, I mean, this is the sort of back and forth that we were talking about between, I don't know, good, we could call it very simply good and evil.
That's a fairly, uh, it's a relatively crude dichotomy, though I don't object to it.
Right.
Fundamentally.
Um, well, it's for the sake of conversation.
Yeah.
When I think of evil, what I really usually think of is selfishness at the expense of the world and others, the future and history, right?
Something like that.
Yeah, but I also think, I also think like, um, because of being brought up in a Christianized nation, we may be inclined to think of evil as the result of something like demons or, you know, quote, Satan or something.
Oh, as opposed to, like, something inherent to humans at all?
As opposed to, for example, when humans defect from their own humanity, right, when they can be, it's also, it's like the absence of something rather than the presence of something.
Does that make any sense?
Does that make any sense?
What do you think?
So you're saying, like, the absence of our humanity, I don't understand what you mean, can you repeat that?
Yeah.
Yeah.
So, um, imagine that, uh, there's a powerful man in the community.
Yes.
I don't know how he got to be powerful.
He's a bad man.
He's mean to people, does bad things.
Is he inherently, is there something bad in him?
Is it the presence of something bad in him?
Or is it the absence of something good?
I don't know how to answer that off the top of my head.
Neither do I, because it's very general.
What the, the, the, um, image or the, the.
Is it the absence of some kind of humanity that's causing him to be bad?
So, okay.
Think of a psychopath.
Right.
So a psychopath.
Go ahead.
Well, he's lacking certain, um, structure or something in his brain or her brain, um,
that there's something different in chemically or biologically, chemically or biologically,
chemically or biologically.
I don't know exactly what that makes it impossible for that person to, um, empathize and sympathize
and see, they can perform it.
They can calculate, you can understand it and mirror it, but they can't feel it naturally
somehow.
So they, um, have a different perspective.
Like they're born like that.
They do have a different perspective.
Um, and they're just inherently selfish.
Basically.
Um, but is that part of human nature?
I wouldn't say that's not part of human nature.
I would say it's a, it's part of a dysfunction in the human, but it's still inside.
It's, it's encoded in us.
Um, so what I'm trying to get is if you, if you can get humans or groups of them to defect
from relational concern, integrity, coherence, intelligence, creativity, you don't have to
have to have the presence of evil.
You can just have the absence of those things and it's going to act viciously.
Okay.
Well, I don't know the absence of the good qualities that make us feel human.
You mean.
Right.
But, but is the psychopath's brain an absence of those things or is it a difference in the
brain?
Like, is it a, you know, maybe has the presence of some kind of chemical that makes you be selfish.
So that is a presence of something.
Um, or is it an absence of just simply in the absence of empathy allows you to do horrible
things.
You know, I don't know chem, I don't know like chemically, medically, whether they're missing
something or whether they've got an additional something.
Right.
Or whether the wires are, you know, there are the wires are all there, but they're wired differently.
You know, metaphorically speaking.
So I don't, I couldn't tell you, but a psychopath is still.
So, um, a psychopath is like an alien among humans because they, they wear, where they
wear a human face.
They wear a human mask, human as we understand it, but they're, they're underneath.
They're thinking completely differently.
Um, so, but to us, they're not humans.
They're not really there.
I can't consider them fully human in the way that we understand human, but they're not,
they're still, but they're still, I'm, I'm doing one of those YouTube videos where like
I tell a story and do my makeup.
Um, um, they, um, but they're still legally human.
I mean, they're still human biologically and legally.
So what do they, you know, socially, they can't function like we can.
And half of what makes us human is that ability to function socially in a, in a, the ability
to do it in a, um, a way that contributes to the wellbeing of the group, which further contributes
to individual wellbeing, um, like kind of exponentially.
Right.
But they can't, they can't grasp that.
Um, so they, they, they're not human in that sense.
They're not, but they are still legally human.
They're still a person in a body.
That's a biological human.
And you can't go, well, I just, I had to kill him.
Cause he's a psychopath.
You know, like I had to eliminate that because he's not fully human.
You can't do that.
He's still, he or she is still a human protected under law and you can't, um, go and harm them.
But the thing is they don't have that same care, um, for you being a human.
Sure.
They're willing, willing to sacrifice you.
Whereas, but collectively humans are like, well, they're, everybody's human.
You can't, you can't just say one's a psychopath.
So they don't deserve to be counted as human.
Of course.
What do you see?
So I have some, just some open questions as we probably start to wind up here.
I'm curious, uh, how do you see the political situation in Europe evolving in the near term?
Are you expecting, um, are you expecting, uh, the, the efflorescence of more, of further military conflict or possibly a world war?
Or what are you thinking?
What's, what's your perspective?
I have no idea.
I can't predict what's going to happen, but I don't know if you've seen it, but in Georgia right now, the, the democratically elected government.
So they did have, um, violations of, uh, whatever legitimacy of those elections.
So probably not legitimate elections yet, probably still a substantial amount of people voted for them.
People that believe the nonsense they peddle.
Um, but at any rate, but I don't think they were legitimately elected.
There's enough, um, evidence to say they probably weren't, um, that they cheated.
Let's say, but okay.
They're in power.
Um, and so they, um, I think they said, we're not going to join Europe or we're off, we're postponing, or we're off track of eventually joining the EU or something like this.
I don't remember exactly what happened, but the people started protesting this because the whole point it's in the constitution is that eventually they should, um, become, you know, they should have the European path.
Not the Russian path and they started protesting this, like, how could you betray us like this?
You know, well, it was a long time coming.
Anybody could see it for years and years and years, but suddenly, you know, nobody, a lot of people in the West didn't seem to take that threat seriously.
And a lot of people in the country seem to, I guess, believe, oh no, they're, they're fine.
They're just, you know, they'll, they're still pro European because that was their rhetoric for long, long, long, long, long time.
Um, but now it was just kind of like, I mean, they were already taking their mask off, but now it's just like, okay, you know, we're really Russian plants, you know, stooges or whatever.
Um, our, our path lies not with Europe, but with Eurasia or Russia or whatever.
Eurasia being like some kind of what Russians would use to mean Russia, except for the other people around them.
Um, so, um, they've been protesting that and then the regime has gotten extremely, extremely violent.
And they're just like beating people, hunting people down, setting criminal gangs out now.
So the head of the country, you know, formal, informal, but formal, informal, but the one, you know, everybody knows he's got this tree park.
It's a really interesting tree park.
I went and visited it and it's kind of surreal and it has interesting trees and interesting kind of sculptures and things.
It's, it's kind of pretty.
I liked it, but it was also, um, if you step off the path, there's a voice comes from a loudspeaker somewhere.
Like, get back, you know, get off the grass.
And, um, so he wants that kind of, you know, it's kind of a metaphor for what they're kind of putting in there in the whole society.
And no, no phone.
Oh, fingernail polish.
Because I need something to do with my hands.
And I don't want to bite my fingernails.
Yeah.
Um, so they're basically, the people are like, well, not all people, but a lot of the people like massive protests.
And then, so what they'll do is toward, as the night progresses, they end up gassing people, sending water with pepper gas, pepper spray in the water, water cannons.
Um, you know, beating, attacking, you know, and so that's, what's been happening.
And so, um, hopefully, I don't know.
Nobody knows where it's going to go, but if the Georgian people, um, can keep it up.
Well, we're worried.
I mean, different people have different opinions about how it's going to play out.
But basically, the Ivanishvili regime, which they call the Georgian dream is one gang, you know, associated with the Moscow gang.
Um, and the Trump gang is too, um, to some extent.
If they're not doing their bidding, they do align with them in certain ideas and ideologies.
And they've at least been capitalizing on the propaganda that, um, models or, you know, uh, I keep, it's a Chechen word kip, but pattern.
Um, sometimes the English word doesn't come, but, um, pattern that they're like able to use and repeat and all, they all kind of build off of each other.
And so there's this kind of, and so just, you know, China, African countries, you know, even this, you have the same kind of propaganda going, same kind of messaging and propaganda narratives just being repeated all around the world.
And I, it's my under, the way I see it is they all kind of originally originally from the Kremlin.
I don't know if they're using old KGB tactics and formulating stuff, but they are, they've just formulated stuff and everybody just repeats it.
Cause that's easy.
Um, but the, the, the, the, that arm of it is in Georgia is in the current ruling regime and the people are fighting back against it.
And now they're using brutal force to suppress it.
And then you'll hear like propaganda.
Oh, it's another color revolution.
It's another Western, um, plot to get rid of the freedom of, you know, sovereignty of these little countries and blah, blah, blah.
That's not true.
But Wes doesn't even know what's happening.
You know, they're not, they're not funding and, and directing anybody.
It's literally your children who don't want to go back to Russia and adults might not be going out as much.
Like not all of them, you know, some do, but like some people can't go.
Cause they have to worry about their children.
You know, if I get my eye, if I lose my eye, I lose my job.
I can't feed my seven year old, you know?
So like lots of people can't go out, but they're sympathizing.
Um, there's the chance of a possible.
I mean, could there be a civil war?
Um, is Russia going to find ways to, well, Russia's, if the people continue to press.
So if the regime is successful and people back down eventually, cause they're just so beaten and brutalized.
Cause I doubt they're going to get much help from anyone.
Then, um, then that's Russia's not going to have a problem with, you know, that'll be fine.
But if, if they're beating them back and the, the regime starts to falter, then you might have Russia's going to start playing tricks there, especially, Hey, they've just lost Syria.
They're having problems in Ukraine.
Well, they're going to stir up something there.
What kind of stir up?
Are they going to provoke a civil war, cause border conflicts, um, um, send forces to support the government to massacre the people?
I don't know.
Maybe they won't do anything.
Maybe they're weak enough.
They won't.
But I feel like this is my personal opinion.
I think a lot of people wouldn't agree with me is that their weakness makes them even more dangerous because where else can they do anything?
They're going to do something.
They can, where they can to hold on to whatever they can do, because they think that very long-term strategically.
So we're in a very, very difficult situation with this wave of authoritarianism happening everywhere.
And, and in the United States with Trump, he is affiliated with the Kremlin people.
Now, when, now that he's in power, is he going to switch up?
Is he going to get offended by something Putin says if they laugh at him and turn around and, and, and, um, find it, you know, that his financial backers, um, other financial backers that give him more money or, or himself, uh, for whatever reason, or he, he's.
Got to, to toe the line in terms of us interests or something, for whatever reason, I don't know if he'll switch up.
Somehow.
Uh, thanks, thanks, but no, thanks.
Like, I mean, I would hope, I really hope he does.
Um, is he going to switch up and then go crazy?
You know, and, and be belligerent.
Um, I don't know, like, he is really dangerous wild card.
Um.
Um, you know, he's either going to support Russia or he could go against it if he switches up.
And, um, then I don't know how smart their decision makers are going to be because they're literally putting in a bunch of people designed and intended to destroy.
What's there?
What do they want to build up in place to me?
They are just seeking to destroy all of the institutions that we have and, you know, departments and so on.
So we're moving towards a terrible.
Wave of authoritarianism all around the world.
And if the U.S. kind of starts faltering.
I mean, how can Europe?
Um, Europe can't defend itself.
Israel.
Israel, maybe, maybe they'll always defend Israel.
I don't know.
Um, so I'm watching Georgia, um, the Georgian situation very closely because if, if, if, um, the Georgian people can stand up to this, this is going to be a really, it's a really, um, kind of give hope to everybody else.
But if, if the Georgian people don't stand up to this, then, or can't, you know, it's just going to get bad for all of us everywhere.
I mean, not because of that, but it's one, it's one, um, node in the system that falls.
And so ultimately we've got a situation where we've got decent thinking people all around the world are coming under this kind of unheard of global kind of tyrannical kind of thing.
Like that has similar form, similar source, but, you know, unique forms in each location.
And thanks to the processes we were discussing before the inability of people to think the lack of practice with organization.
Um, the fact that when you do or think and organize these are, these, um, groups tend to get, um, hijacked by these, um, psychopathic, uh, evil people and turned into something terrible.
We don't have a lot of practice with good decentralized, um, resistance movements that don't turn into something terrible.
Um, we're, we're at a very dangerous, dangerous spot where things, we, we hope things just kind of keep going like they always, you know, hopefully things just go normal and nothing gets too crazy.
But, you know, maybe those authoritarian regimes will all be friendly with each other and everybody will be kind of okay at some point, but underneath we're all going to be suffering from these tyrannies.
And we're not going to really, we're going to have less and less ability to challenge it because it's a technocracy.
It's so much brainwashing that people don't even know they're in a brainwashing soup, you know, like it's layers and levels and layers and layers of brainwashing.
And you get out of one layer and there's another one in another layer and another layer and people don't know how to even, um, push back against that.
And then they don't know, you know, even really understand what's happening in some other place.
And so they're really unsympathetic to what's happening in some other place, just looking at Ukraine.
Well, Joe Rogan said, cursed out Zelensky and Ukrainians or whatever the other day, like you're making Russia threaten us with nuclear war.
No sympathy for the fact that these people are being killed and they're fighting a defensive war because not because they want to have a war.
Because of their precious territory.
I mean, there is that.
But literally, if you don't fight, you're going to get killed.
You have to.
The Chechens fought their first war because if I didn't fight, they were going to kill my family.
You know, you literally it's it's fight.
It's die fighting or die not fighting.
Right.
Yeah.
I mean, Rogan's such a weird, um,
such a weird media power.
Uh, he's he's with them.
I mean, he is.
He's also a propaganda receptacle as well as a generator.
So another question that I have for you briefly, and I'm asking for your personal opinion, not your professional one.
You may not have a professional one.
Uh, do you think that the election that just took place in the United States was legitimate?
I haven't evaluated that.
Like, I don't know how to begin evaluating.
Did the voting machines work?
You know, I've heard I've seen on Twitter somebody people talking about, um, you know, how did Elon Musk know the outcome with his special app in advance?
You know, he must have programmed everything.
What does Elon Musk run all the voting machines?
You know, I don't know what, what, what exactly all the details are in there.
I don't think the last, I don't think the last elections were illegitimate.
The previous elections were illegitimate?
No, I don't think so.
And I, I would be, I would be surprised if these ones were illegitimate.
I think that within two hours of watching the, like within three states, I mean, I don't know.
Like it seemed immediately apparent after just a few minutes that like Trump was going to win and I thought he was going to win before the election.
So, um, I, you know, I don't, I feel like a lot of people wanted to vote for him.
I just, I feel like it's illegitimate in the fact that, um, people don't know why they wanted him to win.
Fair enough.
Okay.
So your, your first part of your answer is not enough data.
Not enough data that I would have, no.
Right.
And the second part of the answer is looked like a foregone conclusion anyway.
Yeah.
Um, what do you, do you have any perspective on what's been going on between Israel and Palestine?
No, that is something I really know very little about.
And it's so touchy that I wouldn't want to.
Understood.
Make it make any ignorant comment about it.
What do you make of what's recently been going on in Syria?
If anything.
Um, I, you know, somebody sent me a video last night showing, I think the free Syrian army or some new army, um, liberating prisoners.
Um, and then in the morning, somebody was talking to me on the phone and they said, well, not really the phone, but like on, um, through the internet.
And they were saying, um, like Assad was dead, but then, and so there were news articles came out like that.
Like he's disappeared after a certain height.
Like he got, they thought he'd got shot down or something, but then like within a few hours he's in Moscow.
So, and then I saw some news article about the U S or bombing ISIS, um, camps or whatever.
So I don't know how can I really know what's going on?
I would say that I, the Syrian people broadly, as I understood it, hated Assad.
And, um, it's wonderful that they've gotten rid of him.
Um, now who is this new formation?
Who's backing them?
Who are they?
What is their ideology?
I don't have any information.
Are they a new, fresh form of tyranny or are they really, um, something that people are behind?
You know, I don't like the term, the people.
I hate the term, the people.
I think it's awful.
Um, there is no such thing as the people, but sometimes I don't have a different word.
So, you know, if Syrians by and large.
Are behind this and want this, and this is something they think is going to give them freedom and they're able to make that happen.
That's, that's great.
Um, but like, you know, Russia's lost its man in the region or in the country.
So how, how are they going to react?
Are they going to do something worse?
Is this a sign of Russian, uh, weakness and decreasing strength?
Um, is it something that's going to make them, um, react schizophrenically somehow?
Um, is it something they'll just take in stride and they'll just let, let their, um, their grand strategy unfold?
You know, one thing the Russians have is a grand strategy.
They do know, you know, it, it, it can change, but I don't, I don't know if Americans do.
I don't see one.
I doubt it.
Um, do you think Trump, Trump's success in the United States has created a roadmap for authoritarianism or tyranny in other countries?
Um, it legitimizes it.
So it's already happening in those other countries, but he'll, you know, I mean, based on everything I've seen so far, again, I don't know.
He could, he's mercurial enough that he could get offended by something and change his mind or somebody else could come and say, Hey, you know, this or that.
And, you know, if you don't do this and so he'll do it, I don't know.
But if things go as they have looked like they would go based on what they say and do and who they've been socializing with, they're going to be friends with all of these people that are horrible.
And they're going to, um, destroy.
I feel like they're going in to destroy the U S government and its institutions and our society as much as possible.
I think a lot of people think it's just cause that's their selfish interest, you know, revenge and being popular and having power.
But I think it's, you know, and that they want to get rid of things they disagree with and set up a different kind of system that's in their favor.
Well, if the United States can't be a democracy, even in form anymore, what, you know, we need new heroes.
And where's that going to come from?
It's not going to come from the Kremlin.
It's not going to come from, you know, if initially released tree park, it's not going to come from.
Marie Le Pen, you know, it's going to only come from regular, regular folks who still have some brains and some morals, because one thing we didn't talk about is moral intelligence.
What's your moral IQ?
I think people suffer a lot more from low moral IQ than low IQ, like MQ than low IQ.
And so half the people can't tell what's going on. We're all slipping into authoritarianism.
You've only got pockets of resistance, pockets of thinkers, pockets of people.
So a lot of people that would be against Trump, they're not necessarily interested in true social change or true political change.
They've been living off the system, how it functions.
They're not going to know, hey, what do we do to fix this?
You know, they just try to fight within that system.
So you don't have a lot of visionaries that can come out with a new worldview.
We don't have any worldview to unite people who maybe don't want to live under authoritarianism.
And if those ideals have been sacrificed, the people sacrificing them, shouting them from the rooftops as if they're the real carriers of these ideas.
People are going to be very, very confused about how to do anything.
We live in monster states.
Like we live in giant masses of people, you know, people.
How do you deal with that?
Yeah, it's very scary.
It is.
So we need we need people pushing back within the structures we have and then actually working to revolutionize these structures like chapter two of Duval, you know.
But where where where are they?
Who's capable of pushing that forward?
Yeah, it does seem that the nations are have become Leviathans, right?
They're giant, lumbering monsters sort of posing at each other violently.
And one of the women I interviewed recently, Tessa.
What was her last name?
She grew up in Moscow.
She said.
That's Elena.
She said when powers flex, peasants bleed.
I don't know.
I'm sure she's a brilliant person and said lots of intelligent things.
But that is a classic idea, you know, like when two elephants that you hear in the Soviet former Soviet Union all the time.
It's like, oh, you know.
And you would hear this about Ukraine.
Well, oh, I have nothing to do with that conflict.
It's just, you know, when two elephants fight, you know, the grass gets trampled.
No, your country literally attacked another country as they had constantly do to all of their neighbors ever since their formation.
And you have to take some responsibility.
No, it's not global forces.
We can't understand just going back and forth and all the people are suffering.
And yeah, yeah, sure.
I don't hate my Russian friends.
You know, I understand they're not making this decision.
But societies do like when Iraq happened.
Did I sit there and say this is OK?
No, I made my own zine and I like, you know, said this is bad.
And I got people yelling at me because I said this is bad.
You know, I did my little tiny thing.
I could I protested against it my little way.
Yeah.
So you have to recognize and maybe she did.
I'm not I'm not talking about her.
I don't know what you guys talk about at all. Of course.
But there's that there's a very Russian kind of answer to this, which is I'm not responsible.
I have nothing to do with it.
It's all them up there doing things and we're all hurt.
I'm hurt just as bad as you.
And it's it's kind of aggravating because you're you're refusing to admit that, you know, somebody made a choice and that somebody you elected.
Or, OK, elections in Russia, it's a joke at this point, but, you know, they have enough popular support to stay in power because there's enough people letting them beat up and kill and get rid of anybody who disagrees with them.
Hey, and the United States let that happen all through time, too, because we never challenged them seriously in any way until like they're bombing.
And now we still kind of loathe to challenge them. So but, you know, it's not it's not this gang versus that gang as much.
Well, there's probably a lot of that, but like there's it's not it's not NATO versus Eurasia and the Ukrainians are just suffering kind of as an accident beneath.
No, the Russian state chose to do this and they're murdering people. And actually, Ukraine as a whole.
You have all the right. If I go and burn your kitchen.
You can call your friend and ask for a fire hose or ask for weapons to, like, get me out of the house.
Like, that's not illegal in international law. And you can go if I won't leave your house, you might go and attack my house.
But in the in the court of common sense, you're defending your territory.
You had to take it on the offensive in order to get me out of your house.
Everybody would understand that it's not it's it's all a bunch of rhetoric, but it is not.
I got off topic, but you can't just be like these are all impersonal forces and I have nothing to do with it and the people will suffer.
You have to take responsibility. And that's something Russians, Russians, some Russians, expats and exiles do, obviously.
But a lot of the regular Russian citizens wouldn't.
No, they're just they're just totally brainwashed and or they they they don't want to go there and they say, oh, I understand.
It's just, you know, the big guys up top hurting us little people.
I'm not responsible for anything at all.
It's kind of aggravating.
Do you think the political situation in Europe is going to further destabilize in the near term future?
Well, I don't know enough about Europe.
Oh, well, let's just talk about let's talk about what you do know.
I can make a guess about Europe. So like it's it's it's where.
If Trump comes in and doesn't take a firm stance on Ukraine.
And Russia gets its way in Ukraine.
How long will Russia?
Just be happy with the Eastern.
You I mean, I mean, can can Ukraine really keep fighting if there's no more support from the United States?
I don't know. Probably not. I don't know. Maybe Europe would start giving it more.
I don't I don't know enough about those details, but let's speculate.
But Russia gets its way in Ukraine somehow.
And we're you know, it becomes a lost cause.
Russia is going to exact revenge on everybody who helped all the countries in Eastern Europe that were helping Ukraine a lot, and they're going to increase their Russia is not going to stop.
So they're going to increase their destabilization activities.
They're going to increase their mind war activities. Now they're going to be have if they get a little strength and bump in strength with Trump, they're going to up it.
They're going to they're whether they're weak, whether they're strong, they're never going to give up.
And they're very good at using the power, the tactics of weak, weak one to undermine the strong one.
So they're going to keep using their information campaigns, which were still, you know, I think they're just trying to they just got rid of or trying to get rid of the anti the one little agency.
You know, they talk about the US has all this like propaganda and everything like they have like one little group that tries to like counter propaganda and they're trying to Trump's threatening to cut it or they already cut it like I mean that there's nothing particularly coherent.
Nothing's really being broadcast. Nothing's like besides the same old trite messages of democracy and LGBT and blah, blah, blah, which isn't persuasive in most of the world.
So they're not doing much. So they're just going to ramp that up.
They're going to if they get strength with whether or not.
All right. Let's say Trump takes a pro-Russian line or Russia friendly line.
They're going to use that opportunity to keep doing whatever it can to destabilize Russia.
And whenever they get a chance, they'll invade more of Ukraine and take the rest.
And hey, if nobody's going to object, we'll just go ahead and take the rest now.
I'll just go in and take it. They'll expand their influence wherever they can, whenever they can, whenever it's possible.
Let's say Trump takes a non-Russian friendly line and lets them keep fighting.
Well, then Russia would get weakened.
It might do something erratic.
But most likely it would just become weaker and weaker and eventually break up.
But we're we would probably try to save them from breaking up because we don't want.
Yeah, we need we need a certain we want a certain degree of stability.
Well, we want somebody we can talk to and they're always happy for it to be the Russian assholes.
And they would never it's it's beneath them to really take seriously the little people, the little nations.
They do, to an extent, as long as things are fine.
You know, I didn't like what I learned of Reagan very much in terms of economics and social policy or whatever.
But I mean, you know, at least back in those days, the old Cold Warriors understood what the Soviet Union was and what Russia is.
But there's just nobody seems to have a good understanding of it.
So as long as people don't understand Russia, Europe's always going to be vulnerable and Russia.
The Trump team is always basically like their whole goal is to get rid of NATO.
Why? Because they're working for Russia and the Russians who wants to get rid of NATO.
So if they can't just get rid of it outright, they're like making up these stories about, well, Europeans need to donate their amount of, you know, their proper share of money to the organization.
You know, so on and so on.
So getting rid of your best allies from all of time.
So before we sacrificed all the Central Asian, East European countries that would have, you know, we just sort of neglected to keep our prestige there by doing the right things and stuff like that.
And being a force for a real democracy as opposed to just trying to cooperate with whatever authoritarian jerk comes into power just to keep things stable.
Which is not out of character for a commercial empire.
But, you know, now, you know, we were still friendly with Europe, but now we're going to sacrifice Europe.
Leave Europe in the lurch.
Yeah, you're going to get a totally destabilized Europe that can't defend itself.
And Russia's maybe not maybe can't go conquer everybody, but they can certainly cause chaos everywhere so that they can sit pretty in their little corner of the world all the time.
And that's what they'll do.
How old is Putin?
70 something.
Let me check.
76, maybe.
You know,
Hamas launched its attack on his birthday back when that happened.
Hmm.
Was it last year?
72.
It's not that old.
Well, compared to you and me, but.
He probably has the best doctors.
He could live to be 96.
He's got 20 more years.
Huh?
Maybe.
Let's hope not.
Yeah.
Yeah.
But what, what, what difference does it make?
If you don't have Putin, you're going to have somebody else.
It's not just.
Yeah.
You know, you.
Okay.
The Trump.
Quote, unquote, assassination attempts.
Total op.
I did no research.
I'm not researching this.
I don't have to research it.
Just look at it.
Look, what kind of technology is that?
It's just.
Classic.
Manipulation, crowd manipulation.
Hmm.
Hmm.
Now we have a.
A wounded hero.
Hmm.
So, but, but if you get rid of him.
You have some other person in his place.
Probably.
Now he has particular charisma.
Like.
Not that that's the right word, but whatever it is like.
Hitler had charisma too.
You know, like he has some particular appeal.
To a certain segment of the population that.
That maybe somebody else might not have, but he's speaking.
And he's told what to say by advisors.
Like, why do you think he put Andrew Jackson's portrait in the Oval Office?
Not because he thought of it.
Cause somebody told him, this is what we need to.
Portray and represent.
And so they've been pushing like their, their Andrew.
What an awful.
Awful.
Um.
Guy.
To sort of like.
Try to present yourself as the renewal of or whatever.
But, you know, my point is that.
The people around him know what image they're pushing and what kind of.
Um.
Subconscious clues they're planting, you know, like.
Subconscious clues.
Like whatever.
In the, maybe not everybody's read the history book, but it, in the collective consciousness,
you have Andrew Jackson and the Jacksonian Democrats have a certain, certain kind of meaning and significance.
And now we're, you know, they were anti elites.
For example, like we're, we're pushing back against the elites for the common man.
While they're like, they were more corrupt than anybody.
Right.
They had.
A horrible.
Mud slinging, lying.
Political campaigns.
But, but that's, um, you know, just like now they're using similar tactics now.
So somebody was reading this and learning from it and saying, hey, let's, let's use these ideas and these tropes and stuff.
And so.
So maybe somebody isn't there that has the charisma that he has, but you've got.
He's telling people certain things that they want to hear that resonates with what they think.
And there's teams of people helping them figure out what that is.
And so behind them is, you know, there's going to be some new figure.
You know, if you, if you got rid of him.
So getting rid of Putin and getting rid of Trump doesn't change anything.
You're just knocking the head off the Hydra.
I follow.
You, you, you have to, um, get rid of the Hydra rather than chop a head off the Hydra.
And so usually that's, that's not the Hydra, but you know, it's, it's the, um, it's the, you'd lift the monster off the ground as opposed to keep attacking it.
Mm-hmm.
So I don't think we've got enough people thinking about how do we lift the monster off the ground and, um, weaken it that way.
Yeah.
So I think my time's up.
Yes.
Okay.
Yes.
That is how you lift things.
We can wrap up.
So grateful, Sarah, as we've had this time together.
Thank you so much.
Um, really enjoyed hearing what you have to share and your knowledge of the caucuses and history and your personal story as well.
So, yeah.
Thank you.
Thank you so much.
Hey, um, hope I didn't just talk too much as usual.
No, that's what we're here for.
And that's what I was hoping for.
All right.
All right.
So thank you for the privilege of, you know, allowing me to share some ideas, uh, for, for your audience or for yourself.
My pleasure.
And theirs too, I'm sure.
All right.
Well, hey, hopefully it'll be entertaining.
I think so.
Bye everybody.
Bye bye for now.
Thanks Jared.
Bye random hand!
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye!
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye bye.
Bye, random hand.
.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye!
Bye.
Bye bye.
