a familiar feel that you as a musician are familiar with the with that whole uh
the perfect take is the one you never recorded type thing of course yes yes and yeah actually
i have a few uh videos on my channel that discuss the peculiarities of recording
the recording that doesn't that you make but it doesn't get recorded right and it's like the
perfect take or um yeah there's lots of interesting features about about that um give me just a moment
i'm gonna i got a little piece of food for breakfast here and my coffee no problem at all
no problem right back
so
you
you
Okay.
Thank you for your patience.
No problem.
Such a pleasure to finally meet you. I'm super excited.
Yeah, absolutely. I've been quite often,
as I'm about to doze off at night,
I've been quite often putting on some of your online podcasts
and absorbing quite a few of the things that you've been speaking about,
which is really good.
I mean, it's really good.
I've seen you sort of gradually building and building what you're doing
and introducing more and more concepts.
And I think that's really, you know, it's really,
I find it really interesting because, I mean,
all of the things that you're speaking about are topics
that I've had a great interest in myself.
You know, and you're expressing them obviously in very different ways
to perhaps how I would normally approach them,
but in many ways you're not as well.
And so I'm kind of anticipating that what we will probably end up doing
through this meeting is sort of hopefully filling in little bits
that we normally can't access in our own brains, so to speak, you know,
as isolated units.
But sort of find a way of opening up new ways of looking
at some of the things that you've been researching.
Yeah, I mean, I'm so impressed with your work.
And I think I've known about you for about, what, eight, ten years
or something like this?
Yeah, it must be at least nine years, I think.
Yeah, because I've been doing public courses around about ten years now.
And you, I remember you being there right at the beginning.
You sort of made some comments and things.
I was absolutely excited to find someone who knew anything at all about mesmerism.
Right, right, okay.
There are no, I mean, there might be one or two other people.
Yeah, just really uncommon.
Hypnosis itself is a topic that fascinates me, has for a long time.
During a non-ordinary experience, it seems, I mean,
the language is tricky here, but I acquired the capacity to hypnotize people
pretty much instantly without knowing what I was doing,
without knowing even that the hypnosis was involved.
And I don't know exactly what was going on there.
It wasn't until later, I took a class on hypnosis,
and I got hypnotized for the first time when I hypnotized something else,
quote unquote, that I realized like, oh, you know,
this has been going on around me without me knowing it for some time.
And what a strange feature of our human composition.
Why?
I mean, I have like a million questions to ask you,
because it's such a fascinating and bizarre.
Where does this come from?
Why is it there?
I mean, all of these questions you must have been,
you must have pursued these very deeply, I imagine.
Yeah.
Well, I think, I think you and I look at these subjects in quite,
in a quite similar way.
For example, that you, I've heard you talk a lot about,
about time.
And about the altering of time, you know,
the modification of time,
which is obviously something that you relate to martial arts.
Mm hmm.
But it's also something that you relate to.
For example, the action of a snake.
I mean, being a very, very good example, you know,
because the snake is very well known to be sort of,
first of all, changing the perception of, of time.
In relation to the awareness, awareness of its own bodily movements.
And then as a result of the awareness of its own bodily movements,
then comes a sudden strike.
So, so the observer is obviously changing.
their own perception of time.
Because if, if an object or a person moves in a different manner.
To what you would normally expect somebody or something to move.
It immediately changes the perception of time of the individual,
which may at first be a propodetic thing.
In, in terms of it being something which is there to like,
it acts as like a prop.
Oh, uh huh.
Yeah.
So, so the, hence the word propodetic,
but the propodetic is like the,
the thing that's in place of something else, which is real.
So the, the, the, the preliminary propodetic thing.
Um, of the, of the movement.
May at first be something that suggests,
because as we know, hypnosis is very much about suggestion.
But the.
Sorry.
Whenever I speak, there's a, it's a bit of a, um,
when I first begin to speak, there's, um, a loud noise from the other side.
Ah, okay.
Um, it froze me off.
Cause I can't tell if it's, um, distorted over there.
No, no, you're coming across perfectly well here.
Okay.
Great.
Um, and there's so many different features here.
So you're talking about something that I'm going to call for lack of a better phrase,
consciousness leading, right?
Right.
Yes.
Okay.
So it's, it's setting a tempo and.
Yes.
Yes.
Form.
There are forms, shapes in a way.
Right.
Yes.
And human consciousness naturally, I think of it almost like a liquid.
Right.
I don't know if, if this is a useful way that you may also conceive of it.
And I'm very interested.
I mean, Mesmer, Mesmer himself, um, was somebody who regarded it as a fluid.
Yeah.
This is the liquid fluid.
Yeah.
Cause I rarely hear a modern speak this way at all.
Um, it seems to me like a fluid that is structured or influenced, if you will, the shape of its flow,
the modes of its flow different, very differently.
Um, during our waking world experience than from what we might experience during dreaming.
And I mean, hypnosis is, or trance states.
And when I say that I'm thinking of a broad spectrum.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Kinds of possible trance states.
Um, even in a blatantly obvious way, there's the difference between.
Uh, uh, I mean, I'm in a very light trance, which quite frankly, just even speaking together starts to become a little bit trance like immediately.
Yeah.
When we match, we begin to match up our, uh, what flow forms and tempos and things like this.
Right.
Already there's a light trance going on from that to, um, what, you know, awake, but entranced.
And again, there's a whole, there's lots of different, um, that, you know, slices of this pie, so to speak, there's even different pies.
Right.
It's not just one pie.
Right.
But yeah, from that to more, um, bordering on sleep or unconsciousness, and then, you know, completely out cold and some different spectrums in there.
Do you see it similarly to say, say something about how you see the range of possibilities, please?
The range of possibilities.
Well, I, I mean, one of the things that was, um, that I was becoming aware of while we were, while I was listening to you just now is the fact that, yes, there's, there's different types of, uh, it's different forms of awareness or becoming, uh, becoming more and more, um,
aware, you know, in a sense, becoming more aware, but interestingly, you can become more aware in a very, in a very limited way.
Or you can become more aware in a very, very expansive way.
So for example, even if, even if I was to be speaking to someone staring straight into their eyes and saying, you know, something which seems to limit the awareness.
Of course we could stretch our awareness into everything else that's outside of us at the same time.
So we could be listening to, you know, the birds in the distance or like what somebody is saying on the other side of the street or just outside the earshot.
There's so many ways you can be focused on peripheral at the same time.
Beautiful.
Beautiful.
And that is a form of trance, but a form of trance is only a heightened state of awareness, isn't it?
Yeah, it was so weird why we're getting this, why I keep getting this echo.
I hope it's not on the recording, but it probably is.
No, no, it's not.
It's not.
I can't, I can't hear that.
Yeah, I mean, on, on my side, I just don't sort of know which side the recording side is, but we'll, for the moment, we'll just go along and presume that it's okay.
It's only in, right, it's, it's after you've been speaking and then the first moment that I speak, there's a distortion.
Like a glitch.
Yeah, kind of.
Okay, so visually, we have ideas like foveal vision, which is your, you know, your central vision, and peripheral vision.
And often if I want someone to have, if someone comes to me and they say like, well, what do you mean by trance?
I'll just teach them to spread their gaze.
Like relax your central vision so that your focus becomes on the outer.
It gently relaxes into the outer thing.
And as some people know, which I think is a really interesting sort of mechanical feature of both vision and awareness.
If you're looking at the night sky, and you gaze spread, you will see very dim stars, which when you turn your foveal vision to them disappear, right?
Can't see them by looking at them.
And this is a very interesting idea, because who would presume that there are things that you cannot see by looking at them?
A classic example is the Pleiades.
The Pleiades can usually only be seen with the peripheral vision.
Yeah.
And when you look at it, you don't see the light that you see from the corner of your eye.
This is something I noticed a long time ago, yes.
It's very profound because of what it portends about both vision and consciousness.
Certainly, we would all think that in order to see something, I have to look at it, right?
But I mean, there are other features of this as well.
If two people are passing on the street, they may choose to connect very directly visually, glance at each other's eyes, exchange a smile, whatever.
But as a man, if an attractive woman is walking by, I'm well aware that if I look at her, it's not going to go well, probably.
Right. So what I want to do is not to look at her and thus give her the chance to to glance at me or see me without being seen to be seeing me.
And this kind of thing is human awareness of observation is incredibly nuanced, unimaginably ancient.
Right. Observation turns out to be really profoundly instructive of the structure and activity and forms of consciousness.
Right. Right. Yes, I would go so far as to add to what you've just said and say that by not.
You know, you know, you the the the example you just gave with another another individual.
Sometimes, yes, if the awareness is not too directed to the to the person directly, then you allow the opportunity.
You give the opportunity, you give the opportunity to the other to to feel what's there rather than look directly at it.
If you look directly at it, it's a rather large part of the attention to other capacities of other modes of recognition start to start to perhaps dissipate.
Sometimes we we feel the energy coming from other beings.
I'm sure that sometimes when you've been walking in the park and you've been very, very quiet and very.
Attentive at the same time, like you could if you're completely open, you will you will eventually begin to feel even if you pass a certain tree or if you pass a certain plant,
you can begin to feel it.
But again, this this comes from certain types of practice or certain types of openness or through meditative meditative practices.
We we can actually sort of find interesting ways to to have this experience, which I think in the modern world is is somewhat quashed.
Yeah, quashed or counterfeited.
Or what?
Yeah, I don't know the word for when you when you turn food into garbage.
Right.
Right.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So, yes, of course, we may sense energy, the character of not just the flow of life force, but also the life forces, but also the.
The affinity sort of manifold of affinities and perhaps disaffinities.
Right.
The manifold of relational opportunity, call and response, rejection, invitation, all of these things.
Yeah.
And.
Okay.
Yeah, I have a million questions, so we're coming back.
We're sort of just diving in here, which I feel fine with as long as you're.
Yeah, yeah, I'm very comfortable.
Yeah.
Right.
Can you tell me anything you want to share about how you became interested in this topic?
How did you end up?
How did you end up being the man, the mind, the myth, the legend that you have become?
Right.
Okay.
From walking.
I started walking.
I did a walk, which in England is known as the coast to coast walk, where you basically you start on the west.
I started on the west coast of England and walked all the way across the west coast, which is takes you through the Lake District.
Through the Lake District mountains and then over into the Pennine mountains, which is otherwise known as the backbone of England, because it's like a mountain rich, which runs like a spine through the, you know, England's shape is a bit like a hand.
The Pennine Ridge sort of runs up the center of the hand sort of thing.
And then you've got Scotland up here.
You've got Cornwall down here and London sort of down here, you know.
But yeah, the Pennine Ridge runs, runs up the center.
And then on the west, you've got the, you've got the Lake District mountains, Pennine Ridge.
And then on the east side, you've got this vast swathe of moorland called the North Yorkshire Moors.
Walking directly across there was sort of the pivotal point in time that I can say really switched me on.
And how it happened was, first of all, I was totally immersed in nature.
I didn't take any public transport anywhere.
I used my feet the whole way from one side to the other.
I just had a tent on my back and woke up, had my breakfast, got my tent back on my back and then carried on walking.
And it took about, took about just over two weeks to do it.
But I was pretty, you know, full on walker.
And as I was walking, not only did I encounter many significant places on the land itself,
such as stone circles, which I would camp beside and things like this, which I'd never really encountered before.
But also the sheer exhilaration of standing on the tops of, you know, huge mountains.
And also, you know, walking under the stars, camping under the stars.
For the first time, I mean, a real major experience happened with the Milky Way, where I suddenly felt the whole expanse above me and literally felt it viscerally running right through me, right into the earth.
And I suddenly felt completely connected like a continuum, like there was no separation.
And this was just walking every day and and breathing and observing and listening and not being engaged in too much conversation.
And really did plunge me into quite a depressive state when I returned back to London, because at that time I was living in London and.
To be plunged and immersed so much in in this.
In this type of state of just walking in nature every day and then having to go back to London.
Plunge me deeply into the dream world.
It was interesting.
Which started to happen while I was actually on the walk.
Somehow my dreams became much more vivid, much more accessible.
But when I came to London, I started to get some very, very unusual dreams where I think I think you yourself have indicated.
About certain communications you started to receive from what we might call other other realms, so to speak.
Sure.
Well, this sort of started happening.
But this time.
And all I can say is that the on a practical level.
My spatial awareness, the sense of my physical body existing.
Within this continuum of nature.
Plus.
The dreams which attended the switching on of this state.
Plus the fact that the breathing in the movement.
And my sense of my body and my spatial awareness started to.
Cause me to realize.
That there was a direct connection between my perception of time.
And other people's perception of time.
Which again, as a dancer or as a musician or a stage performer or a martial artist.
All of these people will have this sense whether they can articulate it or not.
Have I begun to answer your question?
Yes.
In order to attempt to avoid the echo.
I'm going to try to put my headset on and see if this affects it.
So just give me a moment.
And I have not lost the thread.
I have no preserving the thread of the conversation in my.
In my awareness.
Just give me a moment here.
I can hear you.
And hopefully that will solve the problem that you're talking about.
Cause it sounds like a feedback problem, doesn't it?
Yeah, it does.
That's one of things could possibly help us here.
All right.
So I want to go back to the last thing you said, and then we'll.
We'll rewind a bit to the beginning of your journey and stuff.
Yeah.
So since about 2018, I've become.
Very concerned.
With what I've experienced as a series of transformations, actually the end of 2018.
And.
Without going too much into the personal bit of it, it became like what, what, what triggered
my awareness and why I became concerned had to do with changes in my sleep and dreaming,
which turned out.
You know, at first I felt like, oh, this is just something local to me.
It's a problem with Darren.
When, as I began to reach out and talk to other people, not everyone, but I encountered
people who were, who had had the same experience at the same time, a series of problems, right?
That match up in each of the different people that I spoke with.
And then I thought, oh, well, maybe it's just something local to where I live.
No, there's people in Europe.
There's people in Asia that I've spoken that are, that have the same sort of story.
And that made me very concerned about what might have a causal role in what was going
on, like what is going on, trying to understand it in some way.
And one day I came across this book that random, I think it was called the bipolar
Bible guide.
And in this book for the first time, I was introduced to two concepts for which there
are German words, Zeitgeber and Zeitstorger.
And when I hear you talking about the relation, when you're out, when you're in public and you're
walking around in the temporal relationships there.
Okay.
The weird thing is that the experiences you describe, I could see them.
From the angle that you are actually becoming a walking Zeitgeber.
You are a local being, a being who is becoming a point of synchronization.
And that synchronization, I mean, that's almost the definition of trance, right?
Is that you get certain streams of consciousness synchronized in a particular way.
Yes.
This is how we go to sleep.
If we can't, if they don't sync up, if those streams don't sync up, we can't sleep, right?
Or we can't remain asleep.
And one of the things I discovered over the past few years, which I find kind of mind blowing,
first of all, that the circadian rhythms are complex rhythms.
It's not a rhythm.
It's like a symphony of streams that when they work well, they work very well.
Right.
And it's reminiscent of a snake actually, or many snakes forming one snake or something like this.
Right.
Right.
And then when they don't work well, you know, there's like two or three straggling snakes.
Now the others begin to struggle and so forth.
But what I found very surprising was that there are something that I will refer to as oneric rhythms.
Right.
Right.
Yes.
The dreaming rhythms.
Yes.
They are symphonic.
They are multi stream.
They have to, they have to flow together.
They come together and the coming together of them.
If you have experience and consciousness of it, it's usually very bizarre.
Right.
It's not.
It's not like a mind state that would be familiar to common people.
And there are often very strange images and or what correspondences in awareness as the,
as the, as sort of the beginning of the snake is, is starting to come together from multiple strands.
Right.
And I mean, there's so much richness here, but, uh, without getting too, too lost in the woods.
Um, so what surprised me, what never had occurred to me is even possible, but it's something that I have experienced.
And I hope no one has such an experience.
Um, it's possible for the oneric rhythms to break away from circadian.
So that the snake doesn't form when you're in circadian, like sleep.
And in order for it to form, you have to basically like stay asleep for a whole nother period after, you know, your sleep period.
Right.
Because for example, let's say your, your normal circadian rhythms are from say, I don't know, 10 PM to 6 AM or something.
Right.
Right.
And so somewhere in there is usually where your oneric rhythms are, uh, active and healthfully doing their thing, but that can get displaced.
So that your oneric rhythms are trying to form like 8, 9, 10 AM, 11, or even later.
Right.
And mine actually flipped over into the afternoon, which was miserable.
It's like not, and it went through a variety of phases and it was pretty scary.
Actually, there was no dreaming at first.
There was a sleep disruption.
There was, um, dreaming in blackness, no, no visual having dreams, but no.
And then, uh, so I've been trying to understand this.
And what I realized is that there are, it's a site, it relates to site givers and site storers, things that contribute to synchronization and things that disrupt synchronization.
Right.
Okay.
What would you, what would you believe, uh, cause the synchronization and what would you believe disrupts the synchronization?
Yeah.
Well, that's, that's kind of a mystery.
And, um, I've been on, I've been trying to understand this for a long time.
I've talked with a variety of different people.
Um, like I said, not everyone's affected similarly, but, uh, a large, a relative, a surprising number of people sensed something at the end of 2018, particularly, that gave them a sense of doom, actually.
And I had a sense of doom.
Impending doom.
Impending doom.
Right.
Right.
And I had, I had a sense like this very strongly for a couple of weeks.
Um, and then, uh, sleep cycle disruption, dream disruption, loss of motivation.
Um, and the story is really similar among probably at least 20 people I've spoken with over this time, maybe more.
Um, and there are groups of people who've been discussing this, but they don't know if there's like, it's very difficult to get a handle on what the hell's going on because we don't talk about these things.
That's right.
Um, now that's a, a big side story and I'm sorry for leading us off, off to the, no, no, I, I, I see all of this as being relevant to whatever it is.
We're exploring.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Um, so one of the things that occurred to me is that the experience that you had on your walk, which by the way, has some sort of classic features.
Right.
And one of those features is that you become a connection point between the sky and the earth.
Yes.
And, and so the history of the sky, right.
Which is a totally strange kind of thing compared to the history of the earth, because it's infinitely rich, deep, complex, ancient.
Um, and then the history of the earth.
You're, you're actually doing this thing that I'm talking about when I say Zeitgeber, right?
Right.
You're, you're acting as a point of synchronization between, um, what, what I might call celestial time and the vast, uh, landscape down here of terrestrial time.
And, and it's hilarious.
It's actually humorous to hear you say things like, you know, I, I would walk past these stone circles and stuff.
I'm like, wait, wait, wait.
Okay.
Really?
Cause what you're, you're, you're, you're almost like acting as a temporal lightning rod.
Right.
Right.
Which is a two way thing.
It allows the communication from the earth to the sky.
And also.
Okay.
So, and then you come back into society, right?
You come back into like the city, which is so ridiculous.
Yeah.
I felt like I've been ripped open when I came back.
Really?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Well, um, when you're living in a very, very, you know, in a completely urban environment,
um, like in London at the time, uh, you sort of, you, you, you sort of develop a thick skin,
I think because you have to, and, and, and so by going into these places and, you know,
and walking every day, um, in this completely natural environment, um, with just a tent as my,
as my home.
Um, I suppose, I suppose it was like, I shed a lot of skins.
If you want to put it in that snake analogy, skin shedding.
But in this case, God, that's the neck is really weird.
Um, in this, and the headphones aren't stopping it.
So in this case though, it's also armor, right?
Yes.
It's like, it's layers of buffering protection, right?
So it's not just, uh, it's not just, uh, like a developmental, um, yes, please continue.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So I, I, I literally felt like, um, all of those layers had been ripped open, or should
I say if I'd have stayed in that environment, maybe it wouldn't have, it wouldn't have had
the same effect, but returning directly back into, into London and getting on with ordinary
life after such an experience, uh, was quite a shock.
Because I could feel, I could literally feel everything around me in a really painful way.
Uh, I could feel people's anxiety, people's fear, people's tension.
I could feel all of these things coming at me, like, uh, as if I was completely open to
it.
And so I didn't find that very pleasant at all.
And so I started to feel rather ill.
And I even went to the doctor's sort of, I don't know what I, what I have here, but
it feels like I'm sort of coming down with a terrible flu or something like this that
won't go away.
And then it sort of got worse.
The doctor couldn't find anything wrong with me and it, it got worse.
And I ended up, uh, going into what you might call like quite a classic state of depression
where I was, couldn't really get out of bed.
And, um, I started to dream a lot, but every time I was dreaming, I would see a specific
landscape which kept recurring in my dreams.
And it was a specific hill with a path going up the hill.
And at the top of the hill, there was a view, a sweeping view down into some corn fields
from quite a high place.
And, um, with a river and the river was flowing to the left.
How do I know this?
I know this because I walked down the hill and there was a boat waiting for me.
And inside the boat, there was, um, this feminine figure, almost like a goddess type of figure,
just waiting for me.
And I would get into the boat every day and then she'd take me down the river.
And every time I got, and we, not a word was spoken between us.
And every time I got into the boat and we drifted down the river, I woke up filled with energy,
filled with a sense of incredible vitality and, uh, a feeling of, uh, like I was literally
coming back to life.
Now, the reason why I say this is because this, your question plugs right into lots and lots
of the points I've heard you speaking about.
We've been talking a lot about, um, you've been talking a lot about, well, there's so many
things I can pull here, pull here together.
You've been talking a lot about, um, medicine.
Right.
Now, as far as I've become aware, this whole, uh, this whole, uh, I say whole, this whole, this
whole, this holy, this whole, holy concept of the, of the, the Medi, as you speak, that
which is between, goes between the worlds.
The medium, as in the Medi, like you have it in such words as Mediterranean, Mediterranean,
the middle earth, the place in the middle, the media, the point of communication betwixt
one point and another, the threshold.
This is the place where the healing takes place.
So the alteration of consciousness through the alteration of our concept of time, because
time is the measure.
And so I've noticed you've been working a lot with ideas of the equivalence of words.
Now, of course, words communication are all in the realm of the Lord of communication and
the Lord of medicine being the healer, being the mercurial essence.
So the mercury, so we're talking about the snakes and that whole thing with the dreaming
and the, the, the waves you were talking about, the honor on Eric realm is, is clearly the realm
of the Asclepian realm.
I mean, say more what you mean by Asclepian, just so that people who are listening.
Okay.
So, so the Asclepian realm is the realm that Asclepius, the healer, would, would actually
work with the snakes to actually bring people into a state of dream.
So sometimes, and I think this answers, or at least makes a commentary on some of the things
and some of the attitudes you've had yourself, in the end, it doesn't matter.
I don't think it matters whether things are actually literally true or not.
May I, may I say something about that?
Yes, of course.
Okay.
Brilliant.
This is a very confusing point for moderns.
And part of the reason why it's confusing is because there is actual danger, right?
Yes.
There's danger.
What is the danger comprised of?
It's comprised of something that resembles someone telling you something and then posing
it as true when it is not true.
Right.
So that's one kind of the danger.
And this is the danger that we face with cults and ideologies.
Yeah.
And specific intentional misstructurings of cognition, understanding, awareness, thought,
concern, fear, hope, right, intentional manipulation of these snakes, if you will, these streams,
right, in our consciousness.
And that's, that's a real danger.
Okay.
Yes.
And then there's this other really weird problem, which I think is more or less masculine,
even though, apparently, circa 2024, one's not supposed to say words like masculine or feminine
anymore.
Um, you get a lot of trouble for this, but I'm willing to take the risk here.
Uh, cause I think these, these ideas still have useful importance and you know, that we
can demonstrate that, but, um, a masculine problem is as men, we are often trained to immediately
dispose of something that we can determine that isn't true.
Right.
Mm-hmm.
Someone says, blah, blah, blah.
Like, that's not true.
Yeah.
It's, it's done.
Yeah.
End of the thing.
Um, Owen Barfield in a book called Saving the Appearances, which is incredibly amazing.
One of the few books that I commonly blather on about, um, talks about this Greek sense of
theoria versus what happened post Galileo.
And theoria is concerned with what is good for seeing.
It helps you to see.
Okay.
It's not concerned at all with whether it is the same as phenomena as experienced.
Right.
And the problem with Galileo, according to Barfield was not that he was saying the earth
orbits the sun that had been being said for a long time.
Problem with Galileo is that he was saying there's a new kind of truth.
Right.
And it's a truth that the church can't control.
It's a truth of the symmetry between a theory and observables.
Yeah.
It is predictive.
Right.
This is what the church is terrified of.
This is why they, you know, persecuted him according to Barfield.
Now, this is where I'm going to come back to.
I think the spirit of what you were, you were sharing.
And I'm just, this is so exciting.
I'm like completely on fire right now.
There are forms of truth that are more profound than facts.
Right.
Right.
Some of those forms of truth are actually approach, not just the mystical, but that which lifts us above our common human experience,
awareness, ability, faculties, understandings.
And these kinds of truths are often.
There's, I think there's actually a part of consciousness in most of us that immediately recoils from them.
And just as like, that's, you're not supposed to know that.
No one's do not.
That's, that's not.
Don't, you can't say, you can't go around saying things like this.
And one of my friends was asking me, somebody who's kind of studying with me.
And he's very curious and I'm very curious.
And we have, as you say, like, there's a synergy that happens where we both get outside what we've known before.
And I love, this is an amazing aspect of our humanity.
And he was saying, so, you know, why, what do you mean by forbidden knowledge?
Who, who's forbidding it, right?
It's a very natural question.
He doesn't understand.
Even I don't understand.
I'm trying to understand, right?
I'm like, yeah, why, why is it forbidden?
Because my own mind under the, you know, when, when sudden, suddenly is sort of an insight from beyond my humanity, so to speak, arises in my consciousness.
My own mind, an aspect of it just recoils often.
And just, it's like, no, no, I'm not having that.
No, no, no, none of that stuff.
No way.
And so, okay, a couple of features here.
So one of the things that happens is once I can structure it in memory, and I'm going to come back to that word and your experience and the Milky Way and the earth and the skin thing.
Once I can structure it in memory so that I can hand it off to my sort of conceptual cognition, if you will, so that I can hand it off to conceptual cognition.
Say, okay, make, explain this, help me explain this to other human beings, make a toy that you can show them this insight and they will understand.
Once I give it a job, it's totally fine.
It's like, oh, okay, I'm not getting evicted.
The gods haven't come and just pushed me entirely out of the picture.
All right.
I, as long as, you know, as long as you keep riding the horse of me, this is all right.
Right.
So then, I mean, yeah, this is hilarious.
It's hilarious and, and kind of terrifying to experience because you wonder like, wait, what the hell is actually, what is my mind?
Why is, why does it have these little compartments and stuff?
But what I said to my friend was, you know, it's as if in our common waking consciousness, we're in a kind of a prison sort of a cage.
Yeah. Yeah.
And any knowledge that has to do with the composition of the bars of the cage or how we got in there or what happens to open the door that lets us out.
So that's what's called forbidden.
Right.
That's the forbidden.
That's where the forbidden.
What do you think of this?
What's your.
Yeah. Yeah.
No, I, I think you're, you're, as we say in an English phrase, you're right on the money there.
You know, it's, it's, it's, it's very much the case.
And I think this is, this is why people fear even subjects or even the experience of things like hypnosis.
Uh, this is why people fear, um, you know, anything which alters the conscious awareness, um, or gets people to, I'm using some fairly cliched phrases here, or gets people to think outside the box in any way whatsoever.
It's also sort of borders almost on, on sort of Gnostic themes as well.
You know, the, the whole Demiurgic idea of the fact that, um, forbidden because the, the, the Gnostic ideology was, is that the Demiurgos is, is actually the one which is, uh, controlling this reality, wants us to stay stuck in it, wants us to, um, not question it too much and just keep going along the crystallized forms that it has put in place.
Right.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
As a kind of enslavement or occlusion of freedom, intentional occlusion of freedom.
Right.
Yeah.
Intentional occlusion of freedom.
Yeah.
Um, and so the thing is, is that, um, this med med thing, this medicine is the actual point betwixt, the point between those strictures.
girders of the soul as they call them you know those actual uh those those those places that
keep the fabric in place now we know that certain points of what the snake can do is poisonous
and we know that it can also be transmuted into something which has the healing quality so again
it's all to do with ratio it's all to do with proportion it's all to do with how much or how
little of something to in order to be able to understand where one where one can actually
navigate that uh and i use that word as well nav navigate you know related to the the naval or
you know the navy that the navigation through the through through this time and space you know how
do you navigate through time and space uh we're touching on huge huge topics here yes
we actually really are very huge topics actually yes yeah i mean these are really dangerous things
um but dangerous because of their uh sort of
how many layers there are in the strange cone of of what we're orbiting um and of course if it's presented
in a certain way this to the common perception can also appear like complete you know nonsense yeah
nonsense or even madness you know yeah yeah no i mean um spoken in the right way it's true but one
of the things that we moderns mostly lack is an experience of um what i would call them manis thigh
a mantic prophet who's literally like under the influence of the beyond or you know mimosini herself
the mother of the muses and this is sort of the role that almond hillman is flirting with i mean i think
he's a lunatic i do but he's also capable of this thing and and the people who are criticizing him
they don't see it at all they're just attacking him basically on a scholarly level right yeah well
the things he's saying can't be true you know it's not i won't go into the details and we needn't um
let the conversation beer over may i may yes yeah yeah speak here as well because there's been certain
moments in some of your recordings where i've heard you very honestly and very openly um just toying
with the idea of oh this this word and that word and so on and so on now again i bring it to your uh
your attention or to everyone's attention the fact that in a certain way this is why i brought in the
thing of like does it matter whether it's true or whether it's not true of course that the true part
it how do we define it but the the not true part okay on a scholarly level on a scholarly level yes
okay you can say this doesn't belong to this root this word doesn't belong to that because it's from
a completely different branch of linguistic roots however homonymy
homony they sound the same exactly right and so this is what i was going to say and so think of um
think of the ancient uh travelers the troubadours for example the troubadours that would take um
songs and poetry and different things from one kingdom to another kingdom and their their duty was to travel
from to visit one king and then another king in a different land and they would travel through
different tongues so they were literally the sonifications of mercury they're also like the
honeybees right precisely flower to flower right precisely and then in the hive the essence of all the
flowers is being collected and so what is it okay there's this like a syllogist the syllogistic magic
here that i want to just highlight i i'm sorry for interrupting you but this is important i think it's
important um we're wrapping we're right great as bees are to flowers and honey right as bees are to flowers and
honey x is to the different people's languages and then the kings right to um v right whatever the the sort
of uh metalog of this honey is right right and it has to do with memory it has to do structuring
and unstructuring until we are so fascinated with the structuring things that we generally don't
understand that there are magically powerful and unbelievably profound methods of unstructuring
unstructuring isn't merely the disappearance of structure no right it's the um pulse it like a iterative
slow iterative dissolution of something that takes i've never even been able to say this before in my
life that takes away the declarative experience of phobial vision and introduces the changeable
suggestive right pareidolia of the incomplete image right right and language is always evolving people
forget that yeah and and also like also every every new idea fertilizes our consciousness and so every
new idea every new way of hearing things yes totalizes our consciousness one thing that i often say to
people on my courses when i do my hypnosis courses especially when i'm speaking about present moment
awareness and learning true present moment awareness if you were a newborn child and you had never heard
any words before and you're hearing your mother and father talking how is it that you eventually speak those words
yourself you speak those words yourself through the recognition of repetition of form
but what did they sound like before you understood the form yes yes i see yes so so so we we we we literally
crystallize formlessness into form which is what everything in the in this cosmos actually how it came about
anyway and so speaking in tongues in the true sense gobbledygook or whatever you want to call it is actually the
the return back to the formlessness which could if you want to get a little philosophical about it
could actually be the original form in some way
yeah you could say you could say it might be a form of er language
but i'm going off on a tangent now but the real point i'm trying to make
and this is why barbaric tongue or or or formless tongue can actually be a perfect way
of creating different states of consciousness for magical mindset for example
to enter into a new space where um where the vision state suddenly appears
so for example what i was going to say to you is
a scholar would say yes you can't say that's equivalent to that
because we have studied the actual growth of language and the different branches of the tree
the tree however not only the newborn baby hears the sounds for the first time yes
they don't care they don't care about the roots the triconsonantal roots they don't care yeah right
yeah that's right and neither does it's like we if we go traveling around and we pass through many
different countries we hear people speaking in uh in spanish we hear people speaking in
but we don't know how to speak spanish but we hear them speaking spanish and then we might go to italy
or we might go to france and we hear them speaking in italian we hear them okay there's some
right my english ears here's some similarities so what we're because we are pattern recognition devices
because we have to make order out of chaos we look for we're hardwired to look for the patterns
yes and and so matter sorry i'm on a on a run here but the pattern is the pater the matter okay oh my god
yes oh god yes the matter yes is the pattern behind the materialization of all things and the mater is
also the memory and the pattern is the patter the speaking and how it structures yeah right it's it's
this um it's this eros right it's this active eros between these two i remember when i was little
you know my mom used to i was a bit hyper lexical as a kid i had a natural affinity for for english
right and reading and stuff did is this so familiar to you as well did you read a lot when
you were a kid or oh yeah yeah yeah yeah well well especially when i especially when i reached my
late teens i just went crazy reading just all the time you know but but as a child as a young child
i i read a lot yes yeah there's an apocryphal story where my kindergarten teacher calls my mom in
and tells her that i have a learning disability because i'm not paying attention during reading
my mom's like well what are you reading and she holds up like fun with dick and jane
it's like you know darren's reading 2001 a space odyssey at home like what you sure darren has a
learning to you know like anyway um okay so later so my mom i remember one day i was probably like
four or something three or four and she said she sort of sang to me why oh you spells you and i was like
that can't be right why the question why oh me why oh me spells you it's she's messing with me this
can't that can't be how they do spelling right and i'm hearing the homonymy right yeah and naturally
noticing these things which let's be clear psychotics and schizophrenics also notice this
yeah so there is mad like madness and prodigy are
feathers on the same wing right yeah so they would say wings on the same bird but they're feathers on the
same wing um and i remember going to school and asking the teacher uh maybe i was in first grade
or something i was like so are you telling me there's no relationship whatsoever between sea the ocean
and see seeing because there's salt water in my eye right i know the water in my eye is salty is what
i'm thinking right i must be that i see because of the sea right i come from this we come from the sea
i'm having these complex pattern making yeah reveries is what i would call them right yeah yeah
which is like no there's absolutely no relationship between if it's completely accidental it can't be true
and then of course this comes back to what is meant by truth you know what which kind of true right okay
i think i think i think the thing is we obviously we we we are both speaking about and dealing with
um areas where obviously it's a double-edged sword you know yes sword because because the side there is
a side to it where if unchecked and untrammeled it can spin off into complete meaningless chaos and complete
um making equivalences where equivalences don't well don't have any meaningful relation yeah i mean
let's be clear about the three of the dangers there right you have delusion paranoia and megalomania yeah
yeah those are the three primary spikes on that thorny crown exactly exactly exactly because once again
you know i've seen plenty of examples of and i'm sure you have your yourself as well plenty of examples of
of individuals who've gone down these similar types of paths and have ended up you know spinning off into
outer space altogether um it's it's a fairly it's a fairly common thing when people begin to work this
way however what is interesting is the fact that um when i say you know mater and pater you know mater and pater
the matter and the pater again this is one of those things where an academic could argue well there is
no relationship between them yeah yeah however the point is and i think this is the important thing the
point is how does that really how does that enable us to in a meaningful way back to the medicine again back to
the healing how does that in a meaningful way cause us to feel enlivened and once again at peace with
our place in the universe our place in the world and our relationship to it rather than it being a
painful thing how does this become a life-affirming and joyful uh relationship to finding these things
because back to medicine again illness in my opinion i speak for myself here illness in my opinion is
actually the result of fragmentation
forming creating a state where we become fragmented and disconnected and you see this
in all the ancient myths in all the ancient uh technologies such as shamanism and the rest of it
the dismembered self the auxerian uh self you know osiris in ancient egypt the dismembered one
isis his wife is his divine wife puts him back together again humpty dumpty
all the king's horses and all the king's men couldn't put humpty together again it's that whole thing of
what is it that causes us that allows us to form a meaningful and joyful and life-affirming
reconnection so that we begin to sense an internal trajectory towards we haven't even if even if we
we can't answer the questions now in this life which and this partly this is why i believe in
this is not the only life darren it's like i believe i you many others consciously even have been here
many times before
that's another subject another whole thing familiar yeah familiar to me as well though and um i'm not
even sure that me is one thing no wrong right like in a way i can imagine at least that me is a
constellation of past beings right with a sort of much like a solar system like with the sun in the
middle and i think i'm the sun right and i think like yeah the more i'm the most i'm the important
thing here because i'm the nucleus right or something right and there's many different ways
to imagine it that are that are useful and brilliant and helpful um but i don't want to lose the thread
okay so so much yeah there's so many different topics here we agree though fundamentally that it's
wildly unlikely that that we come out of nothing into i'm a darren and then i you know walk through my
life and then i'm at nothing again that's just very unlikely there's i don't think there's any
any feature of nature that we can understand that works that way right it just doesn't
it's not one thing like that the only thing kind of like that is language language can be a little bit
like that a little bit but even that you have the entire history of of a language right and then you
have speakers and like i speak a language so that history i must inherit it uh in order to be able to
to speak but all right so i want to focus on
illness is fragmentation yes a dissolution like process yes into dreaming which is the between
of maybe uh conception birth life sleep dreaming death right all these things are on this continuum
we go down into the between or up into the between or both right we go above our life and below our life
at the same time we're in the liminal what we might think of the between space the liminal space
where the foundations become blurry and lick start to liquefy and another amazing example um or metaphor
for this is obviously the chrysalis right yes the physical thing literally liquefies and then it forms this
jewel like uh basically it's a casket yes sarcophagus right and then out of the sarcophagus explodes this
impossible thing that feeds on the nectar of the flowers you know and so um and and this is the i i
don't i don't really know if what almond's talking about i think it's relevant but it never occurred to
me before i heard him say it not not one time i knew there was an association between death and wisdom
wisdom but it never once occurred to me that there might have been wisdom traditions where they
literally said like okay we're gonna kill you you're gonna die right and we're gonna give you these
these substances they're gonna die we're gonna structure this process from from before we give you
the substances into terror absolute terror like mind wrecking you know shivering i i tell all my sins
right because i'm terrified out of my mind and that's not necessarily true that that's a phase in
this but it's possible in the way he discusses it and then um being taken into like the cave of the
civil you die you awaken they resurrect you they give you the antidote they bring you back to life you've
now seen the other side directly firsthand um like the people that that we might hear uh near death
narratives from and then you have to find your way out of the cave through a sequence of sort of
visual allegories or something like this now i'm i'm half making up some of this but nothing like this
ever occurred to me before i was i knew there's an association between death and knowledge
um the 13th sephirah in in kabbalah's doth which at least has this resonance and is associated with
death right right right um and then there's you know the snake at the tree which is this is a question
that i actually took up with the non-human intelligence like what do you want to know i want to know about
that they're like wait what i said you could have anything i'm like yeah i want to know about that thing
that thing where the accident happened and something got broken in our people and then now we're
we're always in this trouble over generations of generations is it and they they taught me all kinds
of amazing things about that and basically what it came down to is that the loss of contact with divine
intelligences resulted in the prominence of representational cognition and that stuff is super
vulnerable to capture by by sort of these processes right they're not actually they're not like demons
or diamonds um but they act uh very malignantly and and their primary concern is domination reproduction
and contagion right just like spread an idea that captures the humans and their behavior so they do
this but they're not beings they're just it's a it's a side effect of a structural problem when
representational cognition can't be reconnected with its origins and so it's like spun off as a broken
satellite like dead inside satellite it never occurred to me that for example maybe the snake actually just
straight up killed eve and then like resurrected her and then showed her how to do this and she did this
to adam and then there was a big like that this is a mind-blowing idea and once again i'm not trying
to say it's true or it's not true i don't care if it's true or it's not true you see what i mean it's so
profound yeah sure sure and when we hypnotize someone in a sense their ego undergoes a dissolution
yeah that's safe yeah and we don't have to terrify them or you know give them drugs or anything right
i remember a time when uh um someone i'd hired came to my house and he clearly been in an accident on
his way to my house he was in bad pain this is a really tough young man been in prison like lots
of fights if if he's showing the pain he's in a lot of pain and we talked a little bit and i just
said look i can tell you're in a lot of pain um would you how would you feel about that just going
away he's like dude i don't have time i'm like to have two minutes it's like yeah and i sat him down
i drew him into trance and i essentially just erased the pain and he was so excited and freaked
out how did you do this you know and i said look just check with me over the next few days the pain
comes back call me whatever and it was really pretty mind-blowing to me how can this even be true
it doesn't make any sense to regular thought that something like this is possible i can say a few words
to someone over i don't know a minute and a half and the pain is they can't they don't feel it anymore
they're free of the pain what what what what is this this can't be right yeah like
what are your thoughts whatever whatever you've you know got well i mean i mean the
you've sort of reminded me of the fact that we're going back to the movements and the
the awareness of the movements and the changing of awareness um because there's two major i mean
the the the form of hypnosis that we ordinarily think of these days is verbal suggestion so we've
been talking a lot about language we've been talking a lot about how thoughts that sorry sorry how how
words can actually evoke certain types of dreams or images in the mind through association sometimes
even through the phonetic equivalence like you say uh you can actually create an image associated with
that phonetic equivalence you know um and uh and that can be used in hypnosis and in actual fact it's been
successfully used in hypnosis as a technique um uh by some of the most famous uh hypnotists but there's
another form of hypnosis as well which is non-verbal and of course the the arts of magnetism and mesmerism
deal more with the non-verbal side you know and there was a very famous uh hypnotist i'm in the modern age
who i'm pretty sure you are very well aware of uh milton erickson you know very famous american
hypnotist and the thing that's great about milton erickson is the fact that he what okay a lot of
his students in the modern day are pouring over tomes of his original work trying to find the secrets in
the words he spoke but when you see even a video of milton erickson you actually see obviously what's
going on it wasn't the words he spoke they were just a part of the equation it was actually his whole
stance his energy his self-awareness his movements and how completely present to himself he was while he
was doing them it's difficult not to begin to fall into trance just while listening and watching you
because you're doing you're doing what you're saying right now obviously and you may not be you
know turning up the volume on it intentionally but it's blatantly obvious that you're you're doing what
you're talking about which again is a kind of natural it does yes it does but it's it's also really
strange because we so rarely encounter something like this or what is being spoken of is being
enacted while it's being and so the inaction is real and visceral and somatic and emotional and
psychological and the words are in line with a fundamental thing that's happening it's so uncommon
for us to have this experience please continue yeah and so and so as i'm saying it's very much to do with
the awareness of yourself in the conditions of space and time so here you are you are you are
making a measure of your existence in space and time if you're in that state someone suddenly throws a
ball across the room you catch it in your hand i mean how is it that people play golf for example and
hit a tiny little edge of a ball and get the trajectory just right how many fractions of
measurement are inside that thing and so this is where we go back in this is where we go into the wisdom
tradition of of you spoke about the kabbalah but the true kabbalah on the continent at least
over in europe true kabbalah has always been understood as the kabbalah phonetic
oh okay it's what's it's what's spoken and it's what's heard not what's written or defined
and it's called the kabbalah phonetic the long vert the green tongue
the living tongue the living tongue the verdant tongue verdant you know verdant so the poetry and
poesis comes from this use of language and words using the kabbalah phonetic the phonetic kabbalah
the the the i mean kabbalah from its very um meaning means the received tradition the received tradition
from mouth to ear from mouth to ear now orally orally transmitted long before there was writing and even
after there was writing there's a layer beyond all the book stuff where from me to you this is why
you and i aren't aren't having a written conversation like i'm not sending any questions and you're typing
the answers right we right and also you know my own development my own um sort of romance with language
letters spelling phonetics as a poet eventually what started happening was very very strange things
like things like things that have there's no precedent in ordinary thought or knowledge um writing things
and then having them happen writing poems right now of course there's a problem there and this problem
borders on when we talk about things like synchronicity right right and again it's similar with um
um what we might call god there's so many con so many concepts here so
when i say the word magic i can mean different things
but if i mean the true old trustworthy transcendent skillfulness i mean something like this
is then you can have like i began to realize that bibliomancy was a real thing you can open up a book
and you can read randomly you can get seven books in front of you open them all up and switch between
them and you can begin to see something that's impossible for you to see if you're not playing this
kind of a game and uh okay so where am i going here it breaks through the web again it's just it does
getting through you're getting it's that it's that medium that medias but it's also you're like you're
rising up to where the this i'm going to use the word eros but the the intimacy the active uh mutually
the adoring magical intimacy between memory and possibility origin and enact and in structuring right
all of these things are uh they're they're they become coherently musical music as in uh uh insight
right remember the insight of memory um so there's all these features of language that are mostly
completely unknown to moderns and so when you say like the verdant tongue um i know what you're talking
about i think i mean not in the same sense that you you have in your mind um i'm losing my train of
thought because there's so many things involved here to transmit orally in song is really profound and
some time ago uh because i got very lucky i underwent an experience where something was transferred to me
in an indigenous tradition and what was i had to hear the song of the transfer and i had to be re re
sort of remade and this is a form of i mean trance transfer these actually do link up kind of right
i had to hear the song and then i had to learn the song and it was very very difficult thing to learn
because it's not like western music at all it's sort of uh there's these all these tones there's vibrato
and there's no uh syllables really i mean kind of um and so obviously what's happening there is
structured linguistic consciousness is liquefying and it's just starting to like flow and spin
and then it reforms slowly afterwards and that reef in that reforming this reminds me of you know the
the caterpillar into the chrysalis the healing which is also a kind of death right it's at least a death
of the previously fragmented state at least that is dying into this uh liquescence right this this um
uh enchanted liquescent shining thing and then it's restructuring uh with with the fragmentation
somehow subtracted right please whatever please go ahead whatever yeah i mean this is this is what
again you know you we were talking about wisdom traditions i mean everything you described before
was uh obviously was very clearly what they were doing in alexis in ancient greek in ancient greece uh
alexis as the greeks pronounce it um and the and uh and also um what you've just described a moment ago
was uh basically the process of of uh which was again very very well known inside the wisdom traditions of
say the alchemistic point of view because you have the the dissolution the the solvay and then the
reformation which is the coagula yeah you have the you have these solvay coagula that's what we're
talking about here and so for any anything to be and talking about nlp and hypnosis and things like
that i remember one really useful quote that uh has always stuck with me that i remember bandler saying
in in in hypnosis and in nl in nlp you're only doing one of it only ever doing one of two things
you're either pulling things apart or bringing things back together so you're either moving the
person away from what they don't want or you're bringing them closer to what they want or a bit of
both like a lembris guy you're you're actually dissolving their fixations or or crystallization
around a particular psychological issue so dissolving it breaking it apart making it looser so they're no
longer seeing it in such a tight jacket kind of way anymore they you free them you give them space to
breathe space to be themselves again space to find that thing that they feel as their valuable self
again and once they begin to glimpse that you you draw the the motivation towards that to be more
present in their life so it's always there so it becomes more and more a living reality
rather than the things they don't want so it's all about that reformulating the trajectory away from
what you don't want towards what you do want away from what you don't want to be towards what you
want to be which is very simple terms so it's like it's ironic that um in our common human experience
we find ourselves fascinated bound and trapped by pain and fear and history and these can become you
know i was doing some counseling with a couple and one of the couple was concerned that the other one
might be cheating and i said you know i sort of looked into the situation and i said you know
i really don't think your partner's cheating what's going on is your partner
is in love with their historical pain right right so it's as if they're cheating
but if they're not kissing someone else they're having a romantic relationship with agony
with historical agony with fear with um an iterative cycle that has happened and been you know gone
again and again and you know just as someone who tries to understand my own trouble in my own life
uh the the the um constancy of i incredibly ironic you know i thought something was done to me
but when i go back and and sort of unwrap the the the crime scene so to speak it always starts with my
thumbprint it was that it's darren's you know fingerprint right there at the beginning that i
overlook and think like oh no it was it was something that was done to me or it happened to me or
something like this so there's this incredible irony and particularly today when we hear people talking
about trauma work and stuff no i don't i want to be careful because i want to be gentle with myself
and with with other people and not just say look you're you know you're sticking the knife in yourself
or whatever that's very crude thing to say that's not what i mean but somehow there is this
we have entranced ourselves over the history of our lives many of us and we're spiraling along this very
familiar path that we're in love with and we're kind of frightened we don't we don't know anything
nothing else is as familiar as that nothing else we're not intimate with anything more than we're
intimate with that and so in a in a beautiful situation someone who um is skillful and has awareness
can come and sort of dissolve that iterative cycle briefly and so now we feel the freedom
and after we get a good sort of the flavor of that freedom in our energy in our body and our senses
then we can perhaps let go and begin uh transferring our attention toward something beautiful fulfilling
the life yes yes i mean something that i've often that i often say to people is and i know this is
certainly true from my own experiences we we don't really know truly what we want until we really know
what we don't want so so and you only know what you don't want by actually experiencing what you don't
want and by experiencing what you really don't want you really become to understand the real depth of
what you really do want and as a result of that it's like an arrow pointing towards a target you you become
more and more sharply defined towards where it is you're truly going and and and so where we are really
going is is what it's like a string pulling from inside us we can't help but go where we truly in
our heart want to go that's very powerful um
yeah there's so many things that i'm beginning to see that i've not been able to be conscious to
forming consciousness before uh but i want to come back i want to circle back because there's some
unanswered early stuff here so you came back from your trip you're in you're in london you're torn open
you're in despair you're dreaming the woman's leading you down the river which by the way is
pretty it reminds me of a snake right and the woman is mediating you know you're actually inside the the
living water snake right and every time you awaken you're filled with energy and yeah but you're also
like your motivation is crashed and you don't want to get out but you're starting to want to get out
of bed no no now i'm having these dreams okay every time i had a dream i would wake up with renewed energy
and i would feel a complete re reinvigorated sense of purpose and uh yeah this this is what would arise
out of that uh period of time where i didn't want to get out of bed was having the dream of getting in
the boat and drifting down the rivers um now there are many more things i could say about this maybe
not on this occasion maybe some other time i don't know we're gonna have more than one of these as long
as you're willing yeah oh very much willing yeah me too these uh basically this place became an actual
reality you found it i actually found the hill and i found the river i found the river i found the hill
yeah this is where the problem this is where the real problem arises right like my friend who met these
people in dreaming and they exchanged contact information and then they met you know wow and began
to work magically together right so what is you know we have this idea that dreaming is just this
sort of fantasy thing now i'm not sure that i don't think so so what about what about the dream time
obviously the aboriginal sense of dream time because this was going through my mind earlier while you
were speaking because you have the walking which is a really important part of the aboriginal ideology
isn't it it's the walk about the charingas and the walk about and you have your charinga stone and you
have all of your marks on your charinga this is actually the um this is actually the the thing that
they enter into the dream time through the walk and this is something that became sort of that became
a bit of an idea you know a bit of a thought in my mind it's like doing that walk not only did i in
in the english sense by walking from west to east i literally cut through all of the geomagnetic
energy lines that run through england this way so this is something that i started to become aware
of many many years later and i and i'm just wondering how how much of a connection that has to
but also you're walking from the future to the past in the west is tomorrow right and the east is
before and the east is before you're going you know you're literally going and that's interesting
that's interesting because before i went i actually had a quandary about that which way shall i walk
shall i go from the west to the east or shall i walk from the east to the west
and i thought about it and i was thinking well if i'm walking from the east to the west i'm gonna
have the sun on my back you know for most of the day uh but if i'm walking from the other way i'll
be walking into the sun so yeah so many questions here first what was going on in you that led you to do
the walk and was it one more thing was it a kind of pilgrimage go ahead
i never really consciously understood it at that time as being a pilgrimage but then you know in
all the years that have come subsequently to that experience i've fully understood the the whole concept
meaning of pilgrimage okay yeah i believe you yeah so what motivated you i didn't mean to interrupt
the some of the things that happened the the the what motivated me was the the beauty of re
you know connecting back to the land connecting back to the landscape the beauty of of living in
that landscape and and being and moving within it with the movement of the sun and the moon and the
the stars and me moving through the landscape witnessing all of these beautiful things
because i've always loved just beautiful places with a passion yes yes
yeah we are uh sylvan you were talking about that burden and uh it was only last week that somebody
you know i was making a joke about pennsylvania being a place where they make a lot of pencils and
she was like no no it's about the forest it's about sylvania the sylvan you know glade and i was
yeah right yes um okay so how do you get from the dream to interest in and which came first mesmerism or hypnosis
right so i started um first of all studying uh nlp ah and from nlp i started to study hypnotism because
as i went through the nlp i was thinking well they've garnered these materials they've gathered
all of this stuff from earlier hypnosis and hypnotic techniques so then i started to become more
interested in things like milton erickson and more traditional hypnosis but i'd already had from my
experience of going to sacred sites
i'd already had certain experiences of you know and also the walk itself you know certain places
where you would walk into a place and you would feel your a connection to the to the energetic flow
that was running through the land or from a from a tree or from a from a stone on in one of the stone
circles or something like this and i would notice how when these feelings arose it wasn't just a feeling
it wasn't just a visceral feeling it would it would literally affect your the conscious awareness of how
you're interacting with the world around you because you're not just feeling the feeling your your perception
starts to become altered as well like colors become brighter sounds become more loud or just like
vibrational forms that lose their names or lose their labels and and so you you start to become well
i'm speaking for myself here start to become immersed in a in a sea of energy which actually has the
possibility of being somehow modified
so it's not just like you're receiving information and because this pen is a pen we call it a pen it's
only a pen it's more this pen exists within my conscious awareness within my perception
and it's it's subject to the salvecoagula in the same way as all the other forms we're talking about
let me pause you there to see if i'm understanding something
uh and maybe i'm not but it sounds like you're saying so let's try let's try it sounds like you're
saying something that resembles um features of experience that we would normally cognize
representationally i.e this is a pen yeah they are experienced but not representationally now they are like
forms or forces or yes uh yes they are they are structuring awareness rather than awareness putting
an overlay on them this is a bird this is a blue jays call well it happens both ways it happens both ways
i think to be honest with you i think it's happening both ways all the time
i think we have things outside of us so speak so to speak also we are led to believe no our standard
waking consciousness is that but i mean what the hell is going on with things outside you when you're
dreaming well exactly right like what what does outside mean well yes and if you see the sun if
you're sitting on a beach and you're feeling the sun hitting your skin and you're feeling the heat and
you're getting a tan in a dream i don't know if you've ever had a dream like that where the sun's been
hitting you in a dream and you've seen the sun and you feel the sun but you're dreaming and
and so where this is very ironic what you're saying here is extremely ironic but i'm listening keep
going please where is where is the sun yes no this is something i'm sorry this is something i ask people commonly
i will you know i'll ask their permission because it's nice to have consent right that matters yeah
and i'll say like i want to ask you some questions about your dreaming and what i want you to and by
the way if anyone's listening to this later go ahead and you know pretend we're asking you this question
um i want to ask you some questions about your dreaming and they'll be like okay and i'll say you
know i want you only to answer yes if you have an actual memory not if you think it happened right
now if you think like yeah probably that probably happened to me i don't want to hear yes then
but if you have an actual memory of this then say yes and they'll go okay and i'll say like have you
ever seen sun in a dream and they'll answer and most people say no and then i'll ask them you know
have they have you ever seen the moon they'll answer and then i'll ask them have you ever seen
like an electric light source like a lamp or have you ever seen a burning candle and they'll answer
and then i'll ask the question that i think is much trippier but they don't know why i'm asking so
i'll say like have you ever tried to turn on a light switch in a dream and they'll be like and if they
say yes almost invariably like yeah and the weirdest thing you know and then they just go into whatever
whatever happened so i have no idea what your answers to these questions are i have seen the sun
i have seen the moon i haven't i don't remember the sun shining on my skin in the lake in the way that you
say um attempts to turn on light switches tend to produce hypnopopic phenomenon right which are
very strange um usually and sometimes involve sleep paralysis or other and this is again where we
get into that there's so much to go into here because there's that between space there's the
twilight space at the beginning of the sleep cycle and there may be some you know along the curve of
it but then there's that other special twilight space at the end of it and they tend to have
different character right the hypnagogic which i think is the beginning if i have that right and the
hypnopompic which is the end yeah yeah and these things are very fascinating to me but then when when
after i've asked the questions and i'll ask you this question because i can't wait to hear your answer
what do you think illuminates your dreams because it sure isn't light it ain't light that's illuminating
your dreams i mean it ain't light like this time oh well this leads me on i can't help but answer the
question with a question with a question the question is what is light anyway
well yeah i mean um okay so of the great questions that we can chase and let me be clear i have a harem
i'm not satisfied with one wife in this domain i have a harem okay and there's like what is light
what is time yep um why are there beings yeah what is time space yep uh why are there living worlds what
are organisms right um these you know are some of my most beloved yeah and and you know i'm not looking
for an answer to these questions oh no no no that would be a divorce absolutely yeah i don't want an answer
i want kisses and love making and yeah absolutely that's it that's it we're on the same page absolutely
in that spirit because this is this is what i was saying to you before it's like we don't have to
answer these questions well we can um our relationship with them expands and becomes more beautiful
as we proceed without it being demarcated and without it being explicitly declared oh it is this
yeah i i what i meant to say was we don't have to definitively answer these questions yeah i mean
there's a real problem in consciousness with declaration explicit things is like consciousness collapses into
i don't know what a knife a weapon yeah like something not trustworthy most of the time there
might be a few purposes over on the side for which that's useful okay so back to uh nlp and you're like
let's go back before that because this is coming out of hypnosis obviously the next thing is okay this
is coming hypnosis is coming out of mesmerism i'm i'm guessing but no tell no no no no um so nlp took me back
to hypnosis hypnosis took me back to mesmerism uh but mesmerism took me right back to what i was
already intuitively and naturally being in touch with in the first place that led me to want to begin
to even start to study hypnosis so i knew there was a connection between the alteration of consciousness
and changes that can occur as a result of how you have this cross flow the interaction between
things which you perceive and things which you interact with and how they can both
form a dance with each other and how they can modify each other things from the outside obviously
modify us on the inside to use that uh convenient metaphor and things from the inside actually have
a an impact and effect upon the external world as well so there's there's an implication here that i just
want to highlight before you continue which is the opposite of passive synchronicity right it's active
synchro yep i don't have the rest of the words like active synchrelation synchrelation
synchrelation nice word something like this right yeah right so so it's a bit like it's a bit like um
deliberately plucking a string to cause a resonance a harmonic resonance through yes yes i'm in the
space yes yes and obviously uh vocal intonation has this natural quality we're us moderns aren't very
familiar with it hypnotists are singers are um poets can be humans are shamans are as well you know uh
orators yeah orators yes okay so the mesmerism brings you back to and what i heard when you were
describing this was on the walk i discovered a sort of the river of myself yes that was this thing for
which there is no word yet it's mine and i sense it and i can taste it and it's real and then i come
back to the city and it's it's all broken and i'm in despair and then the dreaming sort of reforges this
golden silvery starlight you know and then it leads you into nlp and hypnosis and mesmerism which leads
you back into what i can only say is like a soul path or something like this yeah which by the way
the the milky way is understood in this fashion by many indigenous peoples they're like that's a route
that's a route a living route right or root as maybe it's pronounced in in british
route route route all right so i'm with you so it leads you back the mesmerism brings you back
yes yes and and uh years later the particular stretch of the walk where i um experienced this
connectivity with the milky way and the earth and me as the medium between myself as my own
own body as the medium between the earth and the heavens yes this part of the walk where this
happened was it was a part of the walk which was 40 mile expanse crossing over um moorland
and this particular path going across the moorland is a really ancient prehistoric path
which is known as the like wake walk like as in l-y-k-e which is an old english old ancient english word
meaning that which is like to yourself so like and a like to be a like to something like your twin or your
likeness the like l-y-k-e and then the second name of the walk was the like wake walk meaning wake as in
like an irish wake or a funeral where you're actually having the wake performed so it is literally the walk
of your double of your like of your dead self
walking and the path follows the milky way literally follows the milky way i only discovered this
about 12 or 13 years later
so there was a connection one of the things i heard uh one of the things that was suggested to me
about the story that you've told is that when you went on this walk
it was your whole life
it was your whole life from like beginning to like conception to death and this walk
was outside your life above your life or within your life right and you're doing this walk and
then after that what's happening is the resonance of the different parts of the walk is flowing into
and informing your regular temporalized life path something like this have i got am i close i i i i
i very much uh can concur with because because i i it has it has it's it's like the old principle of you
know the greater is as to the smaller as the smaller is to the greater it's the as above so below it's the
the it's it's this literally like what you're what you're kind of what you're saying is something
along those lines that within this act within this action was a map of my whole life a weird kind of
map like a living map not not like you know the map and the territory not like that no a living map
yeah um almost like a divinatory map as well yeah oracular yeah oracular yes uh that's so incredible
there's something
okay so another there's another feature here along this route this path which is that
as you proceed okay you come back from the walk and you uh begin you know your your life afterwards
and you're living and it's not doesn't have to be in a linear line right but it's natural for us to
think this way but what's what's something strange happening which is as you're proceeding in your life
post walk features of the walk are an amnoetically spiraling back and and making like in so it's like
the spiraling this anamnesis right unforgetting and unforgetting is the spiraling pulse as you proceed
in your post walk life something like this is a sense that i'm getting and walking to the sun yes
walking toward the sun and because i couldn't help but notice after doing this and through the rest of
my life how everything within the world echoes that principle whether they are consciously aware of the
fact or not um it's like a flower the flower is obviously it's a seed it's it's under the earth it
comes up through the earth and then it it rises up and opens its head and it even follows the thing
but when it was a seed it already knew well you know obviously in some way it already knew
that its duty was to reach back to where it came from its destiny its destiny and the thing is is
all of the everything here on the earth including the earth itself um no wonder in ancient times they
looked at the sun and said you know this is ra this is god you know it just it absolutely blows my mind
the the degree to which moderns are confused because i was talking with an extremely uh intelligent
gentleman yesterday and i asked him some questions about the sun and it's very clear that he has no idea
what i'm not trying to denigrate my friend no no no
there is nothing near us as primordial as that no that thing has absolute precedence it comes before
all other things if the sun were to blink out the entire history of human thought feeling life
spirit like the whole thing would just go like boop it's gone so it must be that everything around
here is literally like an organ of the sun's it's it's the um it's like a side effect of the fact of what
the sun is being and doing right so minds dreams speak like souls all these things these are like a
side effect of what this we don't have a word for it's it's more than a god it's more than than a god
and we think oh it's some it's like a nuclear explosion in space time right it's so no everything
we're saying everything we're thinking yeah everything we're perceiving is it yeah the possibility
of anything at all has to begin with at least around here with that that more than a being right so yes it's
not i think it's i think we're confused when we think the ancients thought of the sun as a god
because there wouldn't be even be gods there's no you won't have ideas you won't have arguments there
won't be anything at all unless that organizes it and of course um the planets
the other stars the moon these are also primordial but the sun
it's the ultimate local progenitor of stuffness of any a possibility yeah so i have incredible
reverence for the sun and also i remember when um a very beloved pet was dying uh this was a gone in
flower mantis it's a little creature from ghana right it was my teacher for a long time and i
adored this creature um and they only live about six months so you know they're gonna die and she was
dying and i had her on a flower in my hand and i was crying i was just inconsolable and she said in my
mind like why are you crying i'm this is the most glorious moment of my existence i am returning to
the sun really it's just like yeah don't don't worry i know you're sad well we'll miss each other but
i'm going to the sun and you will we will we will go there together you know part of you will go with me
is sort of what was being implied right we will go together right so yeah these these things make uh
sense to me the sun yeah i remember when i was a little kid my dad i asked him what the sun was
and he said it's like a big explosion in space and it makes this radiation stuff and i was like what's
radiation it's like well you have to be careful it can mess you up it can make you sick
it's like and i wonder what it would be like if first of all i was terrified what my dad said he
led to the idea of nuclear weapons and this kind of thing right it was just terrifying and nothing
really almost nothing about
the spirit or you know wisdom or um insight about the sun
sorry it was a bit of a tangent so you're facing the sun and you're walking toward the sun and what
you're saying is this is sort of what our life cap is we come from the sun into in a sense we are
incarnate we walk then toward the sun not not realizing that you know and hilariously you hear
things in death like there was this very bright light at the end of a time
well i'm not saying that that is the sun by the way but no no but uh but just right so we see this
thing the sun yeah but even the sun is you might say we could consider the sun to be just a metaphor
oh okay i would say it differently i would call it a hypostasis
a hypostasis a lesser stasis of something beyond it right yes that is so profound that compared to
that even the sun is kind of you know yeah yeah precisely that's that's the that's the spirit of
what i was yeah yeah hypostasis is a good is a good way of i think time space is a hypostasis of
something yes usually i think this way there are other ways of thinking about it yeah and the earth
is a hypostasis and you know a body is a hypostasis of something precisely precisely precisely yes yes
this is a this is exactly as i as i understand it as well these are the conclusions i've reached myself
as well yes yes so so what i'm saying is is by working with things like trance state by working
with things like hypnosis it offers people the opportunity and the reason why we have therapeutic
work and thera you know to be able to do therapeutic work is because it allows one to enter into that
liminal space where the like i say the crystallizations can become more fluid and then can reform into
a shape closer to the heart's desire so that's why we can let go of things and bring it closer to the
heart's desire or at least be prepared to do so because nobody can really do that work unless in
themselves they reach that place so you might say the skill of a good therapeut is to is to bring it out
of that person that readiness to let go of the things that no longer serve them and i think that this
is what this is what this is what's important is is recognizing each of us to recognize and i say this
generally for the whole world for everybody for us to all recognize what no longer serves our true
trajectory our true purpose our true so you're saying that the the therapist or the therapeut i think
is the word you use i like to use the word therapeutic yeah they in a sense they potentiate the situation
so that the grasping onto the pain and the illness relaxes naturally and opens up and so that create it's
as if they are um it's as if they are catalyzing a transformation almost in something like the
electromagnetic
yes yes yes yes yes of yeah something like something resembling that they're trying it's a transformation
of how the charges are deployed how how charge is deployed or at least this is what is in my mind
right right so for example i we i'll use another another way of explaining things another metaphor
it's like we can take a grain of salt or you know or some sugar and we can and the sugar if if if this
grain of salt or this piece of sugar this grain one single crystal if if that was a metaphor for the
individuality like i'm i'm i'm i'm stuck with this and even though i don't like it i'm i want to be
this grain i want to stay this shape you know i know that there are a few other shapes i can be and
i could reform myself into but i like this shape it's like yeah but what if you sort of you know but but
if when you say you want to stay the shape how many things are causing you pain being this shape
and it's like well yeah i suffer all this pain but i am this shape right oh yeah but if we just sort
of put a little bit of moisture on you and you know sort of i breathe on you you might start to
just lose that shape slightly how about trying on are you willing to try on this new shape perhaps you
know like just give it a go and so you get the individual used to the idea of maybe trying out
this new shape like a like a kid doesn't want to get rid of their safety blanket you know it's like
well try on this jumper you know it's like a different color to what you normally wear but it might work
you might actually like it you know yeah also there's this there's there's a few um simple features of
this that aren't scary and the first one is you could when we're we're going to go to a different
thing for just a minute for a little span and if it's uncomfortable or whatever you can go right back
to how it was like you won't lose your place in in line right you can go right back to your old thing
if the new thing doesn't really feel good and then i remember when i went to the hypnosis meetup where
i was for the first time trained a little bit and they were giving like a kind of standard induction
and when it was my turn to be hypnotized um the uh the sort of uh consent moment right was just
someone said like would you like to feel a lot better right now okay who's gonna say no to that
like but you can you say like no i'm not really you know what would you like to taste something really
delicious and would you like to have a beautiful dream you know who's gonna be like nah i'm good
oh no but but you'd be surprised there are many who really do not want it no no it's not just that
no it's more it's much more ironic than that i myself am so confused and grippy about my own
pain and history and trauma and stuff but even though i'm aware of these things
there's this incredible ironic kind of backflow you know that i can sense in myself you know in a way
so i i certainly have compassion for the people like like no i'm good you know
i'm fine bro yeah i'm gonna go play my video game i don't i don't need to actually have life or you know
whatever and no no shade on people who play video games by the way but yeah yeah okay so wow there's
so much here okay so i want to ask you a couple things um so many things okay we hear a lot of today
about altering consciousness and primarily the method we hear for altering consciousness is drug use yeah
right and um
one of the things that uh amin was making clear and i've heard this before in like traditional chinese
medicine and so forth is that curing isn't necessarily the goal in medicine it's not like you
have to get rid of something or fight it or attack it which are sort of more or less modern um allopathic
medicinal ideas right it's more like you just need to rebalance the body or you rebalance the energies
yes exactly and then uh things will dissolve and change on their own just a sort of a different model
and uh uh amin was talking about this concept in his readings of i think galen the old greek texts um
so i i think it's really weird
i think it's dangerous actually that we would sing the praises of intoxicants
uh-huh when we have this other technology that's just it we're made of it it's so natural it's as
organic as your own saliva right exactly that yes why would we want to introduce poisons
and antidotes when we have this dreaming way that dissolves consciousness into its
sort of originary aspects allows reformation within that that almost alchemical uh chrysalis
right of trance and then naturally safely we come back and there's absolutely there's no downside
there's no side effect you know yeah so you share this perspective generally i generally do yeah very
much yeah i wouldn't say like there's no conditions under which we might usefully experiment or um be
perhaps undergo training or even initiations involving intoxicants but why would we go there first
well there's there's a there's certain yeah i mean for example in ancient in ancient cultures if they ever
would use um pharma you know pharmacology for example or any any of these types of substances it
would usually be done um under very strict conditions after enormous amounts of preparatory work
or or leading the individual into a certain state they can enter into themselves where they fully
understand and have fully accepted and this could take many many years of course fully accepted this
fluid aspect of the persona persona mask literally means a mask you know the person a is literally the
mask so the mask we wear and we're so tightly uh identified with it is actually a something which is
just part of the mystery play we take it off we put a different one on and uh when we
you and i speaking through this conversation i would say that we are both as aware as each other about
all of these aspects we've spoken about you know we're aware of this fluid nature of the self what is
the self anyway all of these questions and you know you sometimes hear these stories don't you about like
i don't know timothy leary and people like this going up to uh certain gurus in india and saying oh
try this you give them 25 hits of lsd exactly and then you hear these i don't know whether these are
true or false stories i think yeah there's pretty good evidence for them going like it's not really any
different than how it was before nothing oh yeah what's that's all this about well anybody who's spent
time in a natural environment just staring at the sky watching the clouds move over them you know
looking at the flowers grow and die in front of them sitting in the same place every day just watching
the cycles move start to become aware of the transitory and illusory nature of of this world
in any case and our place in it so it's not going to make that much difference to someone who's been
so deeply immersed in the natural world for so long in fact they probably see it as a form of violence
maybe to the self to hit the conscious awareness no it is violent because um
trance the transitions between what we might think of as ordinary or waking consciousness
as it begins to shade gently into trance and then as it as it becomes more um more or less like uh
a mode of of sleep or something i don't know how to put it actually it's clumsy language but um
that process is relatively natural whereas when you take a drug what happens is like you flip a switch
yeah and your consciousness is forced into some kind of strange strange to common experience uh
mode form flow orientation right and it's very often the especially if you're doing uh for example
something like someone smoking dmt right often what happens is the person takes a couple of hits and then
they're like oh i'm dead i'm about to die right now i'm gonna die and they have the death fear
whereas i really doubt you're gonna have that in trance i really don't think
it's that no it's not that kind of compressed this is the edge and across the edge you know i'm gone
no it's not like that at least not in my experience no you usually um what i explain to
people who've never experienced um trance before is i just say it's a completely natural state that's
the first thing it's nothing unusual it's nothing um unnatural it's not supernatural or anything like
that it's just a completely natural state whereby you will realize that you are completely and utterly
comfortably in complete control of where you are you know you're in full awareness and you're in control
and there is nothing nothing overriding you or causing you to to do or be anything which you
you do not wish to be and by the way that's that's a complex array that's a complex cascade of
suggestions that you just admitted i mean as a hypnotist i can i know structurally what what is
going on there and i i don't disagree i guess that's a strange thing to say if we say i don't disagree
what does that really mean um right but but yeah i guess what i i guess what it means is there's more
there's more there's more to be said but that's a very reassuring yeah um and gentle uh
preparation for induction or something yeah i mean i i would i would just suggest to any therapist out
there to sort of take that approach um you know that that there's it's it's com with complete um
um you know completely one is completely on their own free will and accord subscribing to to what it
is that they're wishing to achieve you know it's not there's there's a lot of things which are imposed
or suggested to us uh from the external world from the media and so on from films and so on
religion yeah and religion and politics where it's suggested to us that it's going to do this to you
it's going to cause this harmful effect it's going to do this it's going to take over your free will
it's going to you're going to do things you don't want to do and all of these sorts of things which
it's it's it's uh really really very harmful you know and to to to accept those suggestions because
they're not suggestions which are there to help the individual to find you know their true trajectory
their own personal individual true trajectory it's not it's that way from finding your true trajectory
yes and they are toxic in the wrong kind in the non-medicinal sense right in the sense of poison
you were talking earlier about a concept of temporal synchronization yeah that reminded me this is
quite some time ago of the idea of titration in pharmacology right it's you get the right just the
right amount amount yeah over the right span of time right need both concepts right it's it's the um
um the catalyst and the tempura right yes yes so this is interesting because we we keep talking about
time and we keep talking about space and the thing is is if you look at things again from the ancient
mindset which i quite often do um you have obviously the planets and the planets all represent specific
modes of energy and function the functionality and intelligence of how energy and form it's almost
they're like the modes the nodes of intelligence nodes of intelligence that govern form and function
within time and space and so uh saturn for example would be the one that governs structure and form
and time itself chronos chronos and so so i would say that anyone who was in the old sense of the word
working with wisdom would be the one who respects chronos who has a respect for it doesn't want to smash
chronos because the ancients would say well if you want to mess with chronos chronos will definitely smash you
and so it's a bit like you know somebody trying to prove that a brick wall isn't really real by
smashing their head into it you know it's not going to create a very good result it's going to create
probably a horrible result um these things i mean how can you respect it yes how can you in a sense when
you say uh chronos it's not merely time and this is the thing that has become so clear to me over the
the span since 2018 the absolute primacy of synchronization right right there's so many features
all of biology is hitchhiking on historical iterative paths they're hitchhiking on um each other's uh sort of
effort and they're hitchhiking on each other's uh not not merely destiny and memory like all of the
fundamental things are symphonically organized and so what are you going to do you're going to go against
the root of synchronization good luck because you have to synchronize to do a thing so if you're going
to like fight you have to synchronize to fight right how will you yeah right it's like you're going to
remove the the um the ground from underneath your feet in order to run right right makes no sense yeah
no it's not going to work like good luck obviously humans get angry and hubristic and confused in such a
way that we engage in such ironic almost um if if it weren't so dire it would be comedic right if it
wasn't so tragic it would be comical because it's a it's so hyperbolized yeah yeah yeah okay so the planets
chronos the intelligences the the nodes but i think you also meant modes too maybe yes yeah yeah almost
they can interchangeable nodes and modes i would say like almost as in the um the musical modes right
ionian dorian yeah yeah yeah and the architectural modes as well so so proportion and uh all of these
things and so on and so on it's uh it's all all uh part of the beautiful way the ancients would see
our relationship to our relationship to time and space cosmos and cosmos cosmos yes yeah exactly
i don't know if i have satisfactorily answered your first questions really somewhat yes somewhat
but clearly you felt okay so there were it seems like there's at least two important threads and
there i think there's a lot of threads but there are two that stand out the first is you are discovering
your life path you are uncovering and recovering it right and as you are doing this it becomes clear at
some point that your life path
your life path if i'm misstating this correct me is involved with assisting others in yes healing and
recovering their life paths and that you have a gift or uh a mission you know i think we do bring to our
incarnation this sort of secret little package of you know you open up the envelope okay here's you know if
you are caught or killed the secretary will disavow any knowledge of your act about the secret
sort of mission um that isn't always secret sometimes it's not you know it's just heartfully obvious
well i would i would say that um it's been shown to me through um mimosony you know and also that is
actually um a function you know because because you you can through resonance through your own path if
it's been so uh key for yourself if if you as an individual have had these things happening in such
profound way to you then by default i would say like i use that metaphor for plucking a string causing a
vibration you're going to get others to remember how to vibrate as well and find their own uh their own
and so really that's what it is so if you're if you're finding it yourself you will you will you
will cause others to resonate with you i mean we have these things in cut in in our conversations all
the time in our language i resonate with that i resonate with that you know it's it's it's it's really
basic but very profound because this is what it is this is what it's really about isn't it i think
well i would say i would say it's about causing everybody to remember where they're going really
i mean anamnesis might be the most one of the most profound and significant and compelling
yeah of the fragrances of the soul and so to use a different metaphor like if you've been inside the
hive where the honey is you have that smell on you and when you're walking around in the world it wafts
around and other people are like wait there's honey somewhere nearby right and they get sort of lit up
and then naturally there's this distribution there's a distributive uh emanation and uh
a drawing inward too right it's both it's like yeah it's like breathing right yeah you breathe out and
it's distributed you breathe in and it's unified and it unifies in all the people around when the in
breath happens right it's like little star the the the nebula congeals again and a star comes to life
right yes like this yes and i think we should i think we should um those of us who are on such paths
that we've discovered um we should we should relax and uh and trust that that's what we're doing
uh and uh you know like we all should we all of us have a similar ilk should relax and trust that that
is precisely what we're doing and it will what you've just described that is what we're doing
that's what we're here for um to some ears it may sound a little grandiose but i think anyone who's
really understanding this and going through it uh can't be i'm trying to find the right words can't
be dissuaded or discouraged by the by the the ordinary perception of what keeps us inside that
that that crystallized place that everybody accepts as being the place where it's only real if it's this
yeah so let me say a couple things about that um i haven't really said that very well but i no no i
think and the meaning i'm trying to say let me see if i can reflect it back to you um we can imagine
the voice of the crowd the voice of the common person and the critical uh the critical perspective
they might direct at such uh inspired uh discussion and perspective right and they could say well yeah
that's grandiose or that's a bunch of blue a bunch of woe as well easily there's lots of ways you could
that that we can imagine a circle of critics right would sort of pack at something they have no
knowledge or experience of natural for them to be skeptical right and they might also say like this
is how cults get started and blah blah blah it sounds very grandiose why do you think you have powers and
things it has not what we're talking about nothing to do with any of those concerns at all it's not
related to them in the same way that like i don't know uh
uh yeah i'm trying to think of two entirely unrelated things and the problem when you start
to do that is that the first there's you always find a relation you can find some relation between
any two things so i won't give an example but it's not related in the sense that first of all
someone who's authentically seeking an amnesis healing and medicine for others
the nectar of our origin and purpose anyone who's authentically seeking these things
will either get in a lot of trouble very quickly or they will become very humble
yeah so it's not like the ego yes of course you can have grandiosity but in the in the quest for
in the quest for the most in these kiss right your your arrogance will deprive you of everything you
hope for and yes you will quickly learn this if you if you started out arrogant you know like and i
i have certainly had some arrogance in my life right so i've suffered i know what i'm talking about
here but yeah you'll you'll eventually you'll be made diaphanous your ego will become diaphanous
and you'll realize like this isn't about darren at all this has very little to do with darren
and darren is sort of like the name painted on the ship's bow uh you know underneath mimosini's
statue right yeah yeah you know so vital and shining and yeah okay so we call the ship darren but it's
not yeah you see my point yeah yeah totally totally absolutely i mean this is why i said earlier you
know we we talk about the self but what you know and there's that old famous phrase you know before you
enter the temple you must know thyself but like that almost means like to what what self what is
the self that you must know right i mean it's almost like saying it's almost like saying um before you
enter before you go into the entrance of the cave divest yourself of the costume of personal identity
that's what you know yourself probably mostly means or at least that's a very useful angle on the
question right without saying this is what the question's answer is because that would be clumsy and
crude yeah yeah because the the answer is nuanced and many you know many many peddled right like a flower
many peddled answer um how do you feel about taking a pause here yeah yeah i'm absolutely fine absolutely
fine with that that would be that would be wonderful and i'm very happy to do this again yes as am i in the
near term future in the in the near future when the time is convenient for both of us we will definitely do
this again that would be really really good yeah i'm so grateful for this time oh my goodness what
a nourishing and inspiring uh conversations has been absolutely absolutely thank you so much okay thank
you all blessings to you till next week we meet and um do i have your permission to post this is it okay
sure sure sure i think uh i think we i think we actually did what we came here to do yeah me too
i'm just so excited yeah thank you so much fantastic absolutely i look forward to it okay bye now
peace for now bye
