Okay, sorry, just give us in the copy.
So, yeah, so just kind of talking about the horror of reckoning with the materialization of our environmental situation, like Times Square and Orange Smoke, right?
And I was kind of drawing the arc in, like, the two critical functions of the mind, of consciousness.
And this is all, you know, said before the recording.
There's the tool utilization or the understanding of a system or the grasping of a thing.
But then there's, on the other half, the emissary side of master and his emissary.
Or sorry, the master side of master and his emissary.
The understanding of what's available, right?
And the question there is, how do we broaden what people view as available to them?
How do we knock off the walls of their perception, right?
And so there's two ways.
And the first, you know, and Verbecki really tries to define these terms very rigorously, very carefully.
And the first one is the sense of awe.
The sense of awe is a positive expansion of possibility.
Like, a recognition that more exists and is available than one had ever thought, one had ever understood.
So it allows somebody, you know, the sense of awe allows people deeper insight into the kind of nomological system they're a part of.
The, the steps, the availabilities, the affordances, the opportunities.
It's like, you know, you're, you're walking along a mountain and then all of a sudden you find a cave.
Oh, hey, Jason.
Or Darren.
Anyway.
All of a sudden you find a cave and you, you realize that the, the mountain has more faces than you ever thought.
And some of them contain mystery, which is really interesting.
And you have that availabil, availability to explore that mystery.
That's that sense of awe.
But there's an expansion of the possibilities in a way that decoheres you from reality.
There's an expansion of what could be that you don't have a grip on how to manipulate it.
It casts you into an ocean of, um, being unmoored and adrift and you don't have a way to grapple with it.
And that's most technically defined as horror and expansion of reality in a way that you decoher from it.
And so, you know, as I kind of just think about people, we talked last call a little bit about, um, you know, two weeks ago, actually, uh, when I was on about how people have changed a bit.
And I think that there's this kind of subtle fear linked to that sense of horror that their ability to safely navigate this world, you know, their understanding of the world has expanded in a way that decoheres them from their agency, which is really interesting.
How do you explain the lack of curiosity in general?
Do you have any thoughts on that in your experience just meeting people?
Yeah, well, my first impulse is, it's the fear response, you know, my, my first reaction is it's very well explained by squares and boxes and straight lines.
Um, this model of, you know, awe and horror and how they allow people to kind of expand their understanding of the world around them, either in a way that they can navigate and feel safe in, or a way that makes them feel listless and, um, potentially put into a dangerous situation.
You know, that people cling to a closed-mindedness, you know, uh, they, they run away from curiosity because it allows them to cling to an affordance, to a, an opportunity, to something they believe will create safety for them.
If that makes sense, like the lack of curiosity is to say that, you know, I, I know that manipulating this, this job, this body, this economy in this particular way, uh, accords with my beliefs of what will keep me safe.
You know, I, you know, I, a, a person, you know, there's like a discussion on the internet about, uh, the patriarch, for example, will, um, cling to facts and knowledge from science because that has been, you know, proven by any, any credible parties around them to be a safe way to avoid the fear of not knowing, the fear of uncertainty.
Right. Right. So is that sense of safety then related to a sense of control and therefore the left hemisphere of the brain?
Absolutely. In my view.
Right. You know, but of course I remain curious about that.
How do you see it? I mean, you know, would you like to expand on that or?
Yeah. Well then for me, the question arises as to, um, what role the sense of control actually should play in, in our approach or any approach to the future or our current situation.
Um, in other words, like, should we abandon control entirely?
Um, how do you navigate that, that, that line?
Yeah.
Such a good question.
Do you control the enemy?
Well, you know, this is probably no surprise, but I think so much of it might depend on, you know, what is the goal?
What is the, we, you know, what are the, what is the particulars of the situation?
Right. And I don't say that just to try to dissolve it, dissolve the, um, the question into meaninglessness.
But, you know, I think that those things really do matter, you know, but I think one thing that's so important is, um,
um, you know, there, there's two sides to this, either like trying to create an environment where, um, there is not that fear of participation, right?
Um, this is kind of like, you know, this is the downside of disciplinarianism as it locks people into this kind of rigid mindset based on their fear of the repercussion of venturing away from it.
Right. But then the flip side of the coin of creating an environment where there is, uh, kind of a felt sense of safety, the flip side of that is creating a person who's not afraid of fear, right?
Like what, you know, what is it that truly, um, can hurt you as an awareness, you know, just getting people to be mature enough to not be so fearful.
You know, I think those are two sides of the coin in my response to your answer.
Now, what do you think of those?
Yeah. I mean, perhaps a better question would be, is control mostly illusory?
Um, and so then how would the illusory nature of that sense of control pertain to what we mean by fear in this context?
Like, um, is fear then some kind of illusion? Are they both like, how, how related are they?
I do think that, um, you know, it's, it's just, um, incredible to witness the manufacturer of fear, right?
So, um, fear is obviously a relative term.
Like I could be afraid all the time and never go outside.
And I could also be afraid of screwing up my coffee right now by measuring the wrong amount, you know, and those are wildly different things.
But, um, I, you know, I, I think it's pretty clear that the modes of control, like the, um, planting the idea of hell, of judgment, of prison, of patriarchy and parental control.
All of these, um, fears, I think are very carefully cultivated by the system that we're kind of trapped in.
I think that that is a major avenue of its, its power over people is to gin up and constantly produce fear.
Right. Right.
Through education, through media, all these things.
And so, I mean, in that context, yeah, it's, it's very illusory by and large in so many ways.
Um, even a lot of the topics we talk about, collapse, people are very afraid of their lives and their possessions and threats to their possessions.
And, you know, in all but the worst case scenarios, I mean, you know, they're, they're not terribly well founded.
Yeah, but fear then, I think, generally circumscribes the horizon of your action.
Like, it actually serves to inhibit action.
So, is that inhibition related to what you were talking about earlier in terms of the emissary?
So, in other words, is that inhibitory action pertinent to that form of consciousness, that, that kind of, um, um, circumscribing, perimeterized consciousness?
Um, yeah, I wonder, I wonder about that.
Um, that's a, a really excellent thing to point out, you know, and, and I think, um, really fascinating, as you said, you know, as I, as I received the way fear kind of creates the horizon of your opportunity or understanding.
Um, I think that is brilliant.
Um, um, I, you know, when, when people grasp, I think it's, uh,
I think fear interacts with that in multiple ways, that's for sure.
Um, but I don't think it's the only detail.
I think we're looking at a complex system, you know, but yeah, did you want to expand on that?
Was there more to say?
I guess I just wonder whether control and fear are two manifestations of the same kind of consciousness or the same impulse.
Um, and if like distinguishing them is somewhat artificial, maybe, I mean, they could be, yeah, just different aspects of the same impulse.
Um, because fear would, would essentially, I mean, fear essentially serves to circumscribe your actions.
So it is a form of control, uh, maybe, you know, whether self-imposed or, or otherwise, but yeah.
Uh, when it comes to like, what prevents people from, you know, exploring their environment or entertaining certain possibilities or expanding their, um, you know, maybe, uh, just their intellectual or spiritual horizons.
That's, I guess, where I was going with that because that's where we began.
So, yeah, I think that's beautifully put and I totally agree it at the very least, it seems that, you know, fear creates the horizon or the container.
And of course, control is the way in which someone operates within that container, you know, so as not to break it and do accord with their fear, you know, maybe among other motivations, but that's certainly, uh, a powerful one, right?
Yeah.
I like the way you've put it.
Like most plans to me seem like total fiction.
They just seem like works of fiction that people use to overcome the fear to act.
But once they start acting, they abandon the plan.
Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait.
Slow down on that one.
That was, that was much more momentous than it might have superficially appeared.
I've never heard anything even vaguely resembling what you just said there.
That let's just highlight the fuck out of that.
Most plans say that again, they seem to you a fiction.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Most plans seem like works of fiction that people use is like a springboard to act.
Wow.
Out of fear.
That's what allows credible.
Come this initial sense of fear.
But then once they start acting, they abandon the plan entirely.
Um, okay.
Okay.
Okay.
So here's the thing, um, that I see about that, that blows my mind.
Um, can I put this into words?
I think I can, uh, the consciousness with which they're evaluating the future is fundamentally
fictitious to begin with it's based on fictions, right?
And so in order to overcome the gravity of those fictions in awareness and felt sensing,
they have to compose a compensatory fiction, which is the plan.
But then once action begins, they have left the domain of fictions altogether.
They're no longer in abstract bibble de bop.
This piece fits into that piece.
Then you do this, then this happens.
The moment they begin acting, they've changed contexts.
And this is why the plan, certainly not in all cases, but in many cases is just at that
point irrelevant.
Um, so in a sense, what you were saying, and I don't think it's always true, but it's
so useful to see where it is true.
It's something like the pant, the plan bootstraps action against fear.
And, um, once action arises, the plan is often disregarded due to having left the context
in which fear is an operant feature of the interior felt sense of what's happening in a sense, fear
is kind of the opposite of acting.
Right.
Yep.
And part of the, um, sorry, sorry, go ahead.
Oh, I didn't mean to cut you off.
I, um, I wanted to say, um, I mean, I love what you're saying.
Totally agree.
And, you know, I, uh, I once had a director, uh, boss of mine in a very planning heavy field.
And they, they said, you know, with a note of irony, a plan is just a list of things that
never happen.
They never happen that way.
They never happen in that sort.
You know, it was, um, and I don't agree, but was it Churchill who said,
plans are nothing planning is everything.
I mean, I think I don't agree.
And I think that's a really interesting colloquialism to parse out because maybe the plans are nothing,
but the fear is everything.
But it's interesting how, you know, plans hedge or mine into the future to create that sense of
security against fear of what the future may bring.
Right.
And then the plan also supplies this sense of control, which itself is a kind of inhibition
to action.
So the plan actually prevents you from acting in a certain respect.
I've, um, in my work, I've spent a lot of time planning and, um, a lot of time looking
at different ways to plan and, uh, you know, there's getting things done and there's time
blocking and there's Kanban, you know, there's all this bullshit.
And I just realized all the time I spent planning, of course, probably would have been more efficiently
of the use just doing a lot of this conversation orbits, uh, something that, um, I've been chewing
on a lot lately, which is the triumvirate, the tremor of vigilance, ambiguity, and prediction.
But I want to distinguish, I want to use an analogy to create a boundary or to create a sense of a boundary.
Um, I, I am at the pool, it is a hot day.
I put my foot in the water, it is fucking cold.
I can tell it's going to suck to get in the water, but I want to get in the water because
it's hot out here and I want to play in the water with the other people.
Um, but I have become aware of the transition, right, the, um, interim situation in which I will suffer.
I'm going to have trouble breathing.
I'm going to be doing that huffy breathing that where your body's like having cold shock and shit.
I don't want to do it.
So what do I do while I'm up there thinking?
Right.
I'm kind of, I'm kind of frozen in the domain of action while I'm up there thinking about what to do in the domain of action.
I'm not doing anything.
I'm, I'm resisting the beginning of acting.
Um, so maybe I form a plan.
Um, and one of the dumb plans I used to form is I'm going to use the steps and just step down bit by bit into the water, slowly, slowly.
Um, when it reaches my waist, it's going to be really cold and it's going to go to my belly and on and on and on.
And it was a stupid, you know, in my view, it's not that it didn't work.
Um, but that's what I used to do a lot.
Um, and just like to prolong your torture.
Exactly.
I still do it to a degree.
If I go to the ocean, the ocean here is very fucking cold.
I mean, it's not frigid, but it's, you know, 47 or something.
It's cold.
It hurts.
It actually hurts your bones when you get in, especially if you're older.
Um, so these days, you know, I, I sort of acclimate, I don't just dive all the way in, but diving all the way in is probably better.
Um, and so these are different styles of traversing the gap between thinking and action.
One is go all into action immediately.
The other is take it in a stepwise fashion.
The latter is more like planning.
The former is more like the abandonment of planning and the entering into action.
But these have to do with vigilance, what we're paying attention to, right?
Why we are paying attention to which things ambiguity, the stuff we don't know, the mysteriousness of the situation, the unknownness and prediction.
What do we think will happen?
And the thing about action is it kind of lets go of that ship.
It transforms vigilance from futures to now, largely, if not completely.
It transforms ambiguity from thought to experience and it transforms, um, predictions again, from the future to pretty much now.
Um, I mean, there's still some futuristic prediction going on.
That's true.
Um, but most prediction, like once you're in action, the way you're paying attention to yourself and your relationship with situations and variables is different, radically different.
It's a different kind of attention.
It's partly the difference between abstraction and immediacy and, and I'll stop blathering there, but yeah, that was just such an amazing, what an amazing insight that never occurred to me before that the plans are mostly fiction.
And certainly when compared to action, they are, cause actions, non-fictional, nothing fictional about doing it.
I like how you laid that out.
I think, um, you know, a lot about the, um, you know, expectations and that kind of fear response, right?
You know, that's the, the back door of the Trojan horse where it worms into your brain and paralyzes you, you know, I, I kind of, um, well, many people, not, not you, uh, you know, maybe me to some degree, but working on it.
And one thing that I kind of was, well, two things I was reminded of, I remember our discussion sometime back about time, you know, the scintillating timeline and the ways to kind of think about and consider time.
Um, and I, I think that that overview of the scintillating path one takes, or even from inside of the journey or the kind of integral motion through time is, is really interesting here.
But I also kind of think about, um, I don't know if it's in spinal catastrophism, but the way in which maybe our nervous system creates that delay, a delay in understanding.
And I think that that, that delay is in there, you know, can be magnified with fear as people are trained into fear and expectation of negative outcomes.
I feel like that somehow goes wild where they become paralyzed by this anticipation of, you know, negative outcomes is terror.
And in that way, people plan and they plan obsessively and they worry about the future obsessively.
And it has something to do with that feedback that I think is really interesting.
Don't know what.
I mean, in case it isn't obvious, whatever.
And it probably is fairly obvious, but I'll mention it anyway.
I think the fundamental root of fear is a misconception of death.
And whatever can be done to ameliorate that misconception, there's a long way to dissolving fear.
Dissolving fear.
Um, fear is like a kind of pressure.
And I think it's ironically, uh, comprised.
Because if you fear not having lived, right, if you fear dying with an in an unlived life, then you don't fear death, you fear the, uh, how to call it the, um,
the irreversible overprotection of physical safety.
This is the difference between a friend of mine and I were talking yesterday and he was talking about his experience.
He's very interested in collapse and those, you know, knows Schmachtenberger and Weinstein and a couple of those other people pretty closely has worked with them.
Um, and, um, the meta crisis folks.
And, uh, you know, he, he and I have had some long conversations about his perspectives and feelings personally about what's going on and what, what urgencies have arisen in our present moment.
And, um, he, uh, he took a trip to the Amazon and it was really mind blowing for him.
He spent some time in the, in the Amazon rainforest with people who live in the forest.
And he was shocked by the completely different way, like the absolutely different way in which they, uh,
um,
their value system.
Right.
And yeah, they try to preserve life,
but in a situation that's actually,
you know,
where it's coming down to death may be happening.
Unlike us, they're not trying to preserve their own life.
They're trying to figure out which, which situation.
This is actually something I, um, added in.
Uh, under what conditions is it time for me to give up this life?
Right.
What's a worthy moment to stop protecting this and make it into a gift.
So if a Jaguar shows up instead of the two guys trying to figure out,
you know,
how to keep themselves alive,
they're,
they're actually competing to determine who feeds themselves to the Jaguar.
You know,
under some,
you know,
their finances, right?
Or it's obvious somebody is going to,
it's going to go.
Um,
and all I'm trying to say with that analogy,
well,
not all I'm trying to say,
but part of what I'm trying to highlight is that,
um,
there's a difference between living meaningfully
and protecting the fuck out of something that is,
that will never be come alive.
Right.
Like it's a conceptual gambit.
I will.
And it's partly,
again,
this other problem of projection of stable continuity from physical circumstances that we,
that we experience,
right?
Like the doorway to my bathroom is always the doorway to my bathroom.
It's always there.
Doesn't change.
Doesn't move over time.
Just there.
In dreaming,
it might change.
Um,
but we take that continuity in consciousness and we project it.
We're trained to do this.
Otherwise we wouldn't do it so much.
We're trained by our cultures to do this,
but yeah,
we project that continuity onto all phenomena,
interiority and so forth.
And we also have entirely,
I think the wrong idea about death.
Um,
not that we want to just,
you know,
suddenly sacrifice ourselves and,
you know,
seek death or anything like that.
It's not what I'm trying to say.
What I'm trying to say is,
um,
our over concerned avoidance of it is wrong minded because it's based on a
complete misunderstanding of what it is.
We think we are the body and therefore the body must be protected at all costs
because if the body goes away,
I am gone.
That can't be true.
There's no chance of that being true.
I understand how the fiction arose and how it gets propagated and why it's
compelling and all of that kind of thing.
There's no chance of that being true.
This is particularly what the LF scene of mysteries in Greece were engineered
to do away with.
And part of the reason that they,
there were sort of two primary features of the reason that they did away with
this.
The first ironically was that
that the,
um,
extinguishing of the fear of death produces healing in the body,
physical healing.
Right?
So it's almost as if the fear of death is the cause of illness,
in this sense.
Um,
but it also produces liberation of the soul and intellect without which you cannot have a
democracy.
So these two things I think were central to what was going on there.
And,
you know,
lately I can't say that I've understood or that I've integrated the things that I'm
saying here.
I'm still fucking scared of death.
Yeah.
I'm scared.
And I'm,
you know,
viscerally scared of it with some degree of regularity in my experience.
Um,
but I'm learning,
right?
It's dissolving slowly.
Well,
I think,
um,
sorry,
go ahead.
Um,
yeah,
I,
um,
it would,
I don't think it'd be healthy to completely abandon the visceral kind of fear
because,
um,
if,
you know,
something tries to eat you and you just,
you know,
stood there and didn't do anything.
Um,
that wouldn't be good because if you,
if everyone was doing that,
then everyone would just,
you know,
uh,
instantly die.
But can I,
can I just push back against that for a second?
Well,
hold on.
I want to continue a little bit.
Um,
I don't think you should,
I don't think people should do the kind of dysfunctional.
Cause my brother said this once,
uh,
um,
when I talked about how on the African Savannah with hunter gatherer,
sometimes cats would eat them.
And he immediately said,
well,
then they should gang up and go kill all the lines.
And I'm like,
well,
that is the dysfunctional behavior right there.
That is,
that is the entire problem.
Um,
with that kind of reaction,
but the,
the really unhealthy thing for people is having death,
haunt them like a phantasm all the time.
The idea of it,
that's the really bad part.
Yeah.
I think this is what happens and it usually starts in childhood.
We don't,
I think we don't have a natural understanding of death in childhood.
It's imposed on us conceptually outside.
Because clearly,
um,
you know,
other animals are autonomous and,
uh,
resist being killed to the extent they can.
But there's a difference between that and then building an army and burning down a forest and driving species to extinction.
So,
um,
yeah,
so I don't think that reaction is appropriate at all.
Um,
um,
what you said about the people living in the forest,
that is a more,
that is a more healthy way to do it,
where there is a time to live and there's a time to die,
but there's no time to resist death for the rest of our lives because that means we never lived.
Right?
I never,
this is the danger.
And,
uh,
it's the danger of an unlived life.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And the thing that really makes me sad is a lot of people I know in my life and my,
uh,
face to face life are like this.
They immediately cling to things like,
Oh,
you should,
you know,
really work on your career and your social security.
And I'm sitting here thinking,
Oh my God,
they want me to pour concrete on my future self.
Right.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And basket of security.
Yeah.
It's like all the,
um,
all this sort of,
you know,
um,
strivings for beauty and stuff are completely gone in these people,
it seems.
And that just,
that just makes me grief,
pretty,
pretty hard.
Well,
there,
you know,
we live among a topology of persons and some of the valleys are pretty low and some of the mountains are pretty high.
Right.
Um,
but yeah,
the people that we know when they are,
um,
so confused and so,
uh,
sort of what committed to this confusion,
it can be,
um,
you know,
a soft approach with those people often prevails over time.
If you come to them and straight up go like,
dude,
you're out of your fucking mind.
What are you thinking?
They're going to bristle and double down on what they believe,
but over time they can be influenced.
I find generally,
even people who are very,
um,
opinionated or ideologues over time,
they can be influenced,
especially if,
if we're,
you know,
friendly with them and stuff.
But I just want to say something about the,
um,
something ironic.
This,
this,
this doesn't obviate what you were saying to be about protecting one's life.
It's just a weird experience.
I had.
Hmm.
When they have friend of mine,
we're writing poems,
really brilliant young man.
He's a great poet.
He was a child of two amazing,
famous poets.
And some Berrigan,
he and I were writing poems.
It was a summer's day in my house.
That's some crazy neighbors.
Drug dealers.
Drug dealers.
They have to add two gigantic pit bulls that would fight each other and like try to chew through anvils in their backyard.
All the time.
And then Selma and I were out in front,
in front of my porch,
smoking a cigarette.
And somehow the two,
somehow the doors between the backyard and the front area were both open and unguarded.
And the dogs came barreling down the stairs,
focused on me with absolute death rage.
I mean,
their,
their feet were skidding as they tried to run faster,
slavering and snarling like fucking great white sharks on land sharks on steroids and meth.
The rage in those animals was like nothing I had ever seen.
This happened over the course of a few seconds.
I was standing there with a cigarette leaning on my back foot.
The dogs ran up to me,
obviously intent on tearing me to shreds.
I did nothing.
There wasn't anything to do alive.
There was nothing to do.
I just sat there and kind of looked calmly at my death.
Definitely right now is going to happen.
And as the,
the lead dog got close to me and it saw that I wasn't reacting.
It had a moment of doubt.
And it turned to the dog behind it for support.
And that dog kind of looked at it like,
uh,
yeah, bro.
I don't know.
And they both got sort of an embarrassed look on their face and they turned around and trotted home.
That's amazing.
Um,
what if I had run?
Oh,
Oh, well, the thing is,
is you did exactly the correct thing because,
um,
uh,
canines are coursing animals,
which means they tried to get their prey to run.
Mm hmm.
So the last thing you want to do is turn your back on a,
on a canine and run.
Mm hmm.
Yeah.
So that was really wise.
That was really wise indeed.
But I just want to be clear.
Yeah.
I just want to be clear.
I,
I take no credit for the wisdom.
I take no credit for the fact I survived.
It was an accidental non reaction to a situation.
And it also involved the fact that I was being observed,
by the extremely calm Anselm Bergen.
So it wasn't like I was alone in the situation.
It's just a very weird one off situation in which I certainly would have been killed.
I think,
I mean, as far as I can tell,
they would have killed me.
They certainly seem totally intent on tearing me to shreds.
I've never seen animals that pissed off at nothing.
I was absolutely furious that I dare to exist.
Um, yeah.
And so, yeah, anyway, it's just a weird story.
I didn't, I want to be really clear.
This is an exact example of part of what we were just talking about.
There was literally no planning.
Had I made a plan?
I'd have died.
I was in K.
I didn't have time to do anything.
And I didn't react and I don't know why I didn't react.
Normally I would be terrified.
I have no explanation for my, my lack of behavior.
I just sort of absconded from agency.
And gave it over to the sky or whatever.
In the sky.
I don't know what the fuck.
The dogs were embarrassed.
It looked embarrassed.
I think it's really interesting to see, um, you know,
on either side on the dog side,
I think there's a great study of the nexus of power and control and fear in there and their perpetration.
On your side,
you know, I don't, I don't know if people say freeze fight or flight or whatever,
but I think there's something about intuition here about the role of the master of the mind.
You know, yeah. If, if you don't have fear, if you don't show fear,
the dogs don't get the exhibition of control,
which is why they were in it in the first place.
It's just fascinating.
Well, another thing too, is, uh, dogs like that.
I'm pretty sure every other living being that they've chased like that or came out like that ran from them like squirrels and
Yeah.
I don't know if they chase.
And then when they come up to this guy.
Yeah, when they come up to this guy.
I'm sorry. Go ahead.
Yeah. When they come to this guy and he's not budging.
They're like, what the fuck?
Yeah.
But I, again, I wish I could take credit.
You know, I'd be like, it was my Zen training.
You know, I, I sat, I sat a lot of meditation.
So, you know, I was just, no, I don't know what the fuck happened.
And I wasn't thinking and I didn't change stance.
I was in a relaxed stance when the event began.
And I was in the same relaxed, nonchalant stance when it ended.
Had I even changed stance that probably would have been enough.
I don't know.
It's hard to know what was going on.
I am fascinated by what happened.
I just want to be really clear.
I'm not taking credit for it.
I didn't do anything.
I didn't not do anything.
Here's what I'm trying to say.
I made zero decisions.
None.
None.
So that's.
No plan and no, no thought.
Yeah.
Being in the moment where all the opportunities are.
And the, the paradox is talking about that is ruining it.
Right, right.
Exactly.
Saying like there's nothing, nothing happened that I can understand that I did or didn't do.
There was no, it was a, it was a moment of no action.
So it literally like some of them say like, oh yeah, you froze.
No, I didn't freeze.
I was still relaxed, comfortable, nonchalant.
It was almost as if, okay, here's one thing I might say.
There's a position in awareness that we rarely experience.
I've only experienced it once during a strange sleep paralysis moment.
And this experience, um, in this experience, I, my perspective split into three positions.
One was the position in my body, my position, the one I'm used to.
One was the position above it.
That was a, um, completely emotionally detached observer looking down at my body.
Totally detached.
And the third position was some kind of explosion origin thing.
Uh, and in this case, it's almost as if I went from my body to the second position.
And just became totally detached.
Um, perhaps that's partly an explanation.
Um, but anyway, enough of that story.
I just want to be clear.
Like I didn't do it.
I'm alive, but I don't know why.
Um, I think those dogs would certainly have killed me had I done anything.
Um, but I could be wrong about that too.
Yeah, it sounds like you moved in a way that was counter to the flow of their instincts.
And that somehow blew a fuse for a moment.
Mm hmm.
Um, they definitely looked embarrassed.
Mm hmm.
Right.
It looked like somebody, they looked like someone who's just been caught pooping their pants,
like an adult who's just been caught like shitting their pants or something.
Yeah, right. It created a certain asymmetry, I think.
Yeah, yeah.
Which was, yeah, somewhat paradoxical.
So the opposite of running away isn't necessarily running toward.
It's right.
Yeah, like you were saying.
Yeah, yeah, it's hilarious.
But it really was comical.
I'll never forget it is one of the weirdest moments of my life.
And the thing that made it if the dogs had just stopped or whatever, it would have been fine.
But I got to see the transformation of their face from lethal fury, to puzzlement, to open confusion, to state checking, to embarrassment, to shame, to going home.
I don't, you know, it's brilliant. I mean, this is just such a great little vignette.
I thought TB would particularly appreciate it and probably have some insight about it too, right?
Yeah.
And so another thing too about that is that situation right there can be, you know, sort of a really good example of a state of being to adopt or emulate or try to achieve when the phantasm of that fictitious idea of death appears.
Because I feel like when people have the fear, they're giving it, they're feeding it basically, feeding that idea of fear with the, or that idea of death with the visceral fear reactions.
Because, you know, ultimately, no one knows, you know, or understands death, not even me.
Like, I feel like talking about it is a paradox.
It's like trying to go somewhere where words are, words cannot go.
Yeah.
Sort of like in dreams and stuff.
But yeah, for me, I'm, I've not, I haven't had the phantasm of death haunt me in a while.
Occasionally things will spook me, like a noise, and then I realize, oh, okay, there's a noise and I'll calm down.
Those sort of visceral reactions still happen.
But yeah, the, the, the phantasms and nightmares of death no longer really bother me.
Yeah, because, because it does, those, those, that fictitious idea of death comes at people like those dogs.
Yeah, and it'll leave you alone if you don't feed it.
There's also a strong relationship.
If you watch nature, right?
The humans are lying about what happens in nature.
And part of what's causing them to lie this way is a trenchant misinterpretation of Darwin that proposes that nature is red in tooth and claw.
And the law, not a, the law of nature is survival of the fittest.
The laughable array of bullshit.
Neither of those things are true or the degree they might be true.
The degree to which they might be true is quite modest compared to all the other things that are important to acknowledge and see.
But if you watch predators, and you don't have to watch them a lot to understand this, you just have to watch them a little bit and you'll see it immediately.
They don't pick the healthy, juicy, happy animals to eat.
They pick the weak, sick, disoriented.
There might be occasional exceptions.
It's not a law, it's a principle.
But by and large, right, the bird that goes and eats an insect, it's the one that's like bumbling around in plain sight disoriented.
That's the one that gets eaten.
Doesn't go, you know, finding.
I mean, it could, there's probably some of that going on, mostly what I'm saying.
But I think what I'm trying to say is that disorientation.
Certain kinds of disorientation summon death.
And so the fear of death, I'm saying here, is that the fear of death is the kind of disorientation that summons death.
It's not the only thing going on.
Again, it's a principle, not a law.
Yeah, you know, the, the red and tooth and claw stuff is a really diminished image of what's actually going on.
Like, it's sort of like making photocopy, like 100 photocopies of a really bad digital image.
Yeah, I love that analogy.
Right, lossy compression, right, the reiteration of lossy compression in a concept.
This is the primary problem in modern human cognition.
Our relationships with language, identity, meaning, all these things.
This is what has happened in science and religion and technology are the primary sort of engines that drive and key and cause that lossy compression.
Right. It's like you took a video of something and you compressed it lossily until you just have like cubes of color.
And then you kept compressing that lossily.
That's what modern, that's what modern words like tree and cat and, you know, food and things.
That's what they've become for most of us.
They're just these, we, this is partly why we, we have what Korzybski called
Oh God, something's wrong with my vocabulary and memory lately.
Single valued, single valued thoughts or evaluations, right?
That is just a tree.
This is just that one valued concepts of identity, meaning, function and so forth.
Oh yeah. You know, that's really good because, um, yeah, you know, I feel like in a lot of ways people have automatically death bad.
Right. Yeah.
And me, I'm like, why?
Yeah.
Um, and then what you said about, um, a carnivores in nature.
Um, I've seen lots of videos of, of wolf, wolves hunting because it's just fascinating and brilliant.
And one of the recent ones I saw was them chasing some elk.
And the, uh, a couple of those elk turned around, started strutting at the wolves and the wolves just went around them.
They're like, Nope, not these two.
Right.
And so they, they completely skirted them and continued chasing the herd because like you said, they're looking for the, the sick, wounded, ill.
Disoriented.
Yeah. And then, um, in one of these documentaries, they, uh, they went to, uh, incredible lengths that chase an elk through some water, like a river.
And they eventually got the elk.
And when the biologist came around to, you know, examine the, the carcass long after they finished eating, they found that the, uh, that the, uh, cow elk had a massive tumor in her jaw.
Bingo.
Bingo.
And he said that first off, he didn't know how they sensed that.
And it's like, well, they wolves.
No, trust me.
And then, um, second off, he said, yeah, if they didn't do this, her jaw would have like completely disfigured and she would have starved to death, which would have been a way worse way to go.
So.
Okay. Yeah, this is exact.
It's so funny.
I guess I was having something of a psychic link with you or something, because this is exactly where I was going to go next.
It's not just the creatures that are disoriented.
Right.
Predators often save animals from long lingering suffering deaths.
Right.
They sense the animals that are sick or dying and they come and execute a relatively quick, you know, relatively painless, usually kill.
Um, there are exceptions, you know, again, it's not, it's not a law, it's a principle, but yeah, they rest, they save animals from long lingering deaths by eating them.
And this is the other red, you know, the human's like, yeah, red in tooth and claw.
No, euthanasic in tooth and claw, you know, kind of different.
Those two concepts.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
You know, and another thing too, is, um, people with that fear of death, it also prevents people from considering things.
There are good ways to die and really shit ways to die.
Yeah.
Yeah, I think, um, I mean, there's so many interesting threads here, you know, I just think the, uh, the psychology of power and fear exhibited by the dogs in your story is so great.
But just to stick on the human side for a minute.
Right.
Um, what's really fascinating to me is this impulse to plan.
As you said, you know, if you'd had a plan, it would have been wrong and you would have been eaten.
Right.
Most likely.
Yeah.
And I agree.
I think that's fascinating.
The, the plan to defend yourself, the plan to run, all of these things seem to, you know, feed.
You know, feed the dogs, your fear, which is why they're, you're not dog food to them.
Dog food comes out of a can or a bag.
They're in it.
Yeah.
They weren't attacking me to eat me.
I know.
Right.
They're in it for every hand that's ever struck them.
Mm-hmm.
They're in it for the power over the other.
You know, you're not food.
You're the object of their power.
Right.
And so your reaction, your planned reaction, you would, you would plan based on fear, which
brings you subject to them, you know, brings you under their control.
Just having a plan brings you under their control.
And what's really interesting too, is the way that fear leads to the plan, which is a
hedge against the future and the unknown, all prevents you from being in the moment and
being appropriate.
And I'm not giving you credit for doing the appropriate thing consciously at all.
You know, as you were saying.
Yeah.
I reject that.
But isn't it interesting, you know, that your, your openness to the moment in this case,
you know, the fact of being without a plan, you know, a hedge against fear resulted in
this situation.
And I think what's really interesting about the idea of the plan too.
So you, you know, you said, and I agree that we have this kind of one dimensional thinking,
right?
We categorize and in that categorize fail to understand the reality before us, whatever
we put in the box does not fit in the box.
We put in the box as an efficiency or a fear based simplicity.
So we put the dogs in the box, you know, or we put the response in a box and a plan is
a cascading series of these misconceptions of these misperception.
And, you know, largely they are right.
That's why we do them largely.
And largely they have some kind of function based on some kind of goal.
But the act of planning here first misperceives the situation at every step, right?
And then the fact that you have a conception of the situation, every step occludes a recognition
of what other possibilities may be available to you.
And the whole act itself, again, at every step, presumes a goal that you may not hold in that
moment.
And there, there's just a cascading tower of attachments to errors throughout the whole idea
of this plan against the dogs, you know?
And it's just fascinating.
Mm hmm.
Okay.
So there's something.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
Okay.
Okay.
I see now.
I almost lost the thread.
Okay.
Uh, there are different ways to build objects.
Say I want to build a bed frame.
Okay.
Now, if I'm very creative and playful and I'm an artist about it, I could build it through
experiment.
Right?
I could decide I'm not going to have a plan.
I'm going to discover how to build my bed frame while I'm engaged in the process of
building it much the way that I do.
But Darren does when I compose music, usually it's without a plan.
I approach the instrument, a relationship ensues.
Similarly with writing.
But sometimes I do have a bit of a plan with writing.
I've got an idea that I want to elucidate.
But my point here is that there are certain kinds of activities for which planning is appropriate.
If you're going to build something out of metal and there's a series of steps involved to ensure
that the parts fit together when you're done and you haven't just, you don't just destroy all the
previous steps by making a single mistake late in the process.
For that kind of thing, planning is powerful and useful.
The problem is that we transfer the usefulness and the importance of that onto things that
have nothing to do with it because they are not engineering tasks.
That's part of, okay, I made the mistake of single value thinking when I use the word the.
The is the word of single value, right?
The problem, that means there's one problem.
The way, that means there's one way.
A problem, a way.
This is the difference between a and the.
So a problem, that is a problem when we do that.
And it's a natural thing to do because the products of engineering are very compelling.
Look at a guitar or a piano or a wristwatch.
The old kind, but even the new kind, right?
You're not going to assemble an integrated circuit planlessly.
Good luck.
The problem is that those accomplishments are so compelling that we might be inclined to transfer that compulsion from engineering to any other act.
And think, wow, you know, those people did something.
They built a fucking zipper.
Have you ever looked at a zipper?
Could you build a zipper?
A zipper is an insane thing.
I mean, simple things are insane.
I have no idea how to make most of the things that surround me in my life.
I mean, even a book.
A cassette tape?
Are you fucking kidding me?
How could you possibly record sound on a piece of fucking tape?
That doesn't make any sense.
I have no idea how the fuck that works.
No idea.
I'm sure if someone could explain it to me, it just seems impossible to me.
How could you even come up with an idea that would allow you to encode sound on a piece of tape?
It really seems impossible to my thinking mind.
I have no idea how that works.
Similarly, television, no fucking clue.
No clue.
I mean, computers seem somewhat less impressive to me than things like the invention of radio or television signals or, you know, like tape recordings or LP records.
Mostly that just that stuff actually seems impossible to me.
I mean, I'm singing a long, you know, dissertation here about things that look nuts to me.
But my point is just that I'm sorry to belabored it so badly.
My point is that we see the impossible prowess of stepwise engineering processes.
The mistake is that we think that if we just do the same thing, for example, in a relational situation or perhaps a transactional situation, we will achieve the same perfection and continuity of results over time and over possibility space.
And that is a misperception, though, it isn't always a misperception.
If your goal is to manipulate human thoughts, feelings and relationships, you can definitely learn principles, not necessarily plans, but you can use principles that ordinary people are extremely vulnerable to, and they will produce consistent results.
That's true.
That's true.
You can prime them.
You can manipulate them.
Yeah, this is, this is lovely stuff.
It reminds me of the conversations, you know, George at least has mentioned about armoring and technology.
And it reminds me of the circuit, too.
You know, everything you've said is very well received.
And I agree.
And I think there's an interesting difference I want to draw in the sense that when you said and, you know, how would you engineer an integrated circuit?
I mean, I, yeah, I agree and take, you know, I'm surrounded by technical artifacts that, you know, are so clever.
It's just astounding, you know, and I think it's really interesting to the fact that you said if it's made of metal, you know, if it's dead, if it's predictable, if it's static, you know, we can build a world out of those things through this approach of the engineering platform.
We can build the integrated circuit that you meant out of dead things with an integrated plan.
But when you said, you know, how does one even build an integrated circuit?
You know, my mind leapt and it went straight to, oh, I do every day.
You know, I build an integrated circuit with my garden or I build a circuit with my cat.
And it's not not the type that you're referring to, but I think it's notable in the sense that the feedback loops between living things automatically assemble themselves.
If they approach it in that way, they automatically, you know, just by being integrity, just by listening and doing the feedback, they create the resonance that allows them to diversify, explode and expand.
So if we're not dealing only with dead things, we're static things with predictable things and that that turn in the path that left or right there is really, you know, I think it's a lot of the content that we talk about.
It's fascinating.
I guess I'm hesitant to acknowledge the similarity between what I think of as an integrated circuit and a symbiotic.
It seems that what the creatures do together is very different than an integrated circuit, though it maximizes a variety of what we could think of as benefits and protections.
Definitely maximizes.
I mean, I agree.
I agree.
And yeah, please say more.
Yeah, my impression of living systems is wildly like there's nothing that impresses me.
I've said, you know, similar things before.
Things like the entire history of human technological development is unequal to 12 seconds of the activity inside an ant.
Right?
Which is my actual perspective.
It sounds like wild hyperbole.
No, it's not.
Those living creatures, they are doing wildly impossible things moment to moment, second to second.
There is no chance ever of technology equaling the slightest of their successes.
But humans don't think this way generally.
They don't.
They dismiss the miracles of biorelational integrity and hyperfunction.
And they sing the praises of technological advance, what they call advancement, which is hilarious because mostly it's just the advancement of death.
There are very few technological advancements that don't take their success from mass obliteration of biology.
Almost all of them.
You know, you said that it seems astounding to say that I couldn't be more with you the whole way, you know, and it stems from studying biochem and all that.
I mean, it's marvelous beyond words.
It can't even be expressed how complex and in concert it is.
It's as if, you know, we were talking earlier about the plan versus the no plan.
And it reminds me of the, you know, the carefully written symphony versus jazz.
And the thing about jazz is they can play beyond a symphony.
Yeah, I mean, there's something even weirder.
And again, most of the things that I think we really would benefit from paying careful attention to, they're invisible to us for a really trippy reason.
So you were talking about the difference between a symphony and jazz, right?
And how jazz can exceed what a symphony does.
If I was understanding you correctly, was I was I reading you right?
That's correct.
I wanted to say is the the plan, the engineered artifact is a simplified facsimile of what can be produced in the other system.
Yes.
Now, here's what I want to point out.
This is what you've you've given me to see correctly, which is that, you know, when George was here, I was giving him a recording of my morning prayers.
And there's a there's a phase in those prayers where I.
I acknowledge the directions.
And I realize I'm belaboring, I'm belaboring this a bit, but it's OK, I'll get over it at some point.
And what I say is.
The four, eight, 10, 26 and dun dun dun, 27th direction.
And George is like, what are you doing?
What do you mean 27th direction?
Yeah, and I explained that there's a thing that comes before the symphony and the jazz.
And what that thing is, is the possibility of there being directions at all.
That's the 27th direction.
Right.
The possibility of there being either jazz or orchestra.
That thing is what the organisms are producing.
And that thing supervenes over all.
All specific expressions.
Vastly supervenes.
Right.
So impossibly super.
It's really hard to value this thing because it's kind of invisible.
Whereas the jazz, we can actually taste it.
But the potential for there to be music at all.
Catastrophically supervenes over any instance of music.
Does that make any sense?
You remind me of the shortcomings of large language model AI.
It can never.
You know, it's just a it's a paltry reflection.
It could never create the space or the range or the depth.
Right.
That's where I go with what you said.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I just want us to acknowledge that what the organisms are doing is very insanely astonishing.
They're literally producing the possibility space within which the stuff that we acknowledge arises.
And that part's kind of invisible to us.
But I think it's, it can become visible when we acknowledge it.
I've never heard anyone.
Acknowledge.
The feature of directionality, which is the possibility of there being directionality.
Right.
People might be like, yeah, Northwest, Southeast.
Okay.
Okay.
If they don't, they don't see the fundamental thing.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Which is that which creates the possibility of even having the discussion at all.
The Dow begins.
Yes.
There was the origin.
Yeah.
Origin.
Um, but yes, I agree about the jazz and the, and the, um, the jazz and the orchestra.
Uh, and the orchestra is the model of planning.
Right.
And the jazz is the model of presence.
I think.
Presence in, in improv, not, you know, play.
Right.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I think invisibility is probably related to feedback.
Um, so invisibility is actually a property of perception itself.
Insofar as perception itself involves feedback.
Um, but the invisible can become visible through feedback, I suppose.
So.
So.
Hmm.
Say more.
Am I on the right track, George, when I say that, you know, the scene can only be seen
because there is the unseen as well.
Yeah.
Yeah.
In a certain sense.
Yeah.
So ordinarily when we perceive our environment, we, we already find ourselves with some kind
of product, but the process by which the product appears is usually transparent or invisible.
But the invisibility of that process can be augmented through feedback.
So, um, in other words, the very process by which you perceive your environment can become
a percept.
Um, Hmm.
Ordinarily it's dormant, but yeah, you can actually transform it into a, into a percept through
feedback.
So you end up seeing an aspect of your own body, which is ordinarily a process as a product
in the external world.
So, yeah, I think, I think organisms are, are engaged in that kind of feedback process
in general.
So.
Yeah.
Um, so meditation, I think can, can make that plain.
You can become aware of the, the extent to which your everyday awareness is already a
kind of feedback loop.
And that feedback loop, I think is what you meant by a circuit.
When you were talking about, um, integrated circuits and their relationship to life.
Yeah.
Some sort of magic to start to realize the process of realization.
Yeah.
Right.
I mean, I, could you, could you be a little more tricky there, please?
Yeah.
Well, I've been, I've, I've mentioned before how, how plants really seem to embody something
about space as such.
So you can use plants to understand, uh, the nature of space precisely because they seem
to lack this, um, this kind of relation between center and circumference that other living things
exhibit.
So you can, you can, by peering into a plant, you can perceive something.
I think about both light and, and space and that kind of perception or that, that appearance
is, I think a form of feedback.
That's, I guess that's what I'm saying more generally, but that feedback reoccurs.
It reappears within consciousness.
It reappears within perception.
Um, so the very same mechanism by which you can render the process of awareness as a percept,
um, appears morphologically in the form of a living thing in space.
So those basically consciousness in the, in the body are two aspects of the same process.
I guess that's what I'm saying.
So they're not necessarily distinct.
So what you see when you look at your environment is mind.
It's some kind of ideal being.
So there, there, there is no such thing as you having a mind, right?
So you don't have a mind.
What you perceive in your environment is mind itself.
It is your mind.
So, yeah.
So yourself, what you think of as yourself is really something in your external environment.
I think it's not like an internal private, uh, possession.
So that that's where feedback really, really comes into play.
I wonder if this is, you know, helpful or interesting.
Um, something that occurred to me, you know, I was reminded of, uh, by that brilliant treatise,
um, is the process, you know, of cephalization.
So there, there was this process where things got ahead, you know, um, somehow they developed senses and it's, it's interesting.
They got ahead of themselves.
Yeah.
I mean, words are interesting, aren't they?
Um, you know, what does it say about the organism and its environment and the relationship between the two that it oriented in a direction?
You know, that it's, it's sensation went in a way about the unit, you know, the thing together.
Um, that's fascinating to me, you know,
The container metaphor possession.
These are fundamental deceptions in conceptual language.
If you hear in, um, discussions of Zen training and so on, you might hear something like over time, you wear away.
Uh, I think I can actually find this.
Um, let me see here, let's get this barrier.
Um, maybe I'll have to paraphrase it so that I don't spend a long time searching, but something like over time, stake in ideas, you grind them away.
They turn into dust inside, outside self and other above, below all of these things fade away.
And then, you know, you awaken to true self nature, which is no self nature, unpossessing, no possessor, no possessed, no inside, no outside.
Empty of these characteristics so familiar to us and upon which almost all of our cognition depends.
Right.
Right.
I think, I think plants really exemplify that in a certain way.
I think plants lack either an inside or an outside in a certain respect because they reveal their environment.
They're, um, like products of wind and light.
They're, um, their direction.
So I think plants, you can, plants are essentially symmetrical beings, uh, almost like the visible, the visible spectrum.
So to ask what the directionality of a plant is, I think is similar to asking what the directionality of a rainbow is.
It's like, well, in a certain respect, it's just a kind of symmetrical entity.
It doesn't actually have the kind of direction that an animal does.
Um, because with the animal, you have this kind of more clear localization of a center.
Um, so a plant is really losing itself almost in its, in its external environment.
It's a kind of, um, cascading series of waves, just like light.
So there's a, I think there's a very clear symmetry between plants and light, uh, in terms of their, their physical form, at least as we perceive them.
Um, yeah.
And I, I think that in one sense, uh, they are the between of nothing, something, death and life.
And so they are expressors of each of these seemingly distinct things.
They are the enacted embodiment of these matters.
Right.
So it is impossible for them to be separate things.
Yet humans can easily imagine this way.
Right.
Cause language, you know, language asks us to think like this.
Yeah.
Culture for sure.
I mean, it's, um, and, and language.
Yeah.
And English in particular.
Right.
That's true.
Um, you know, I just to, to build on this and, you know, correct me where I'm wrong, George,
but I mean, you know, you can just reveal layers of the truth of what you said, you know, in, in the idea that the plant that typically presents to us as nothing without its roots.
We don't typically see them, but one cannot be without the other.
And what's interesting is we see the plants stretch into space.
Its roots also stretch into the are typically unknown.
It grows as much into the air as it grows into the soil, you know, and in another dimension.
The plant is nothing without the carbon dioxide.
It absorbs.
The, the plant also would die if it could not release the oxygen it emits.
It grows internally into itself through these gases that we can't see, but then in this way, also the plant is nothing without the atmosphere.
And it turns out at least for our perception that the atmosphere is nothing without the plants because we would not be perceiving it if it weren't at least.
And there's any number of dimensions you can take this along.
And it, it seems to me that, you know, the easiest way for me to think about this and I don't know, but, you know, there are seams of rock in the crust of the earth and come, you know, according to contemporary science, they just the right minerals interface with just the other minerals under the correct temperature and the right pressure such that a crystallization occurs.
At the edges, the edges, the seams, you know, the, the plant is maybe less a being and more of just where these things come together and form each other.
And in that way, so are we, you know, we are host for more microbiota, you know, than we had been civilization had ever previously recognized.
We extend into the distal impacts of our actions.
And the world makes us as much as we make it.
I mean, there's so many dimensions in which this is fascinating.
Yeah.
But then when you look at a skyscraper, at least I can see how it really abides by the same kind of principle as something like a stopwatch or a pocket watch.
Because it only arises by the orchestration of certain components held together or glued together through some kind of extrinsic imposition.
And that kind of imposition is pretty fragile.
Something like a plant is already integrally whole.
So that wholeness, I think, is something that actually stems from the cosmos in a way that a skyscraper approaches from another angle.
But over time, I think technical beings, they become more integral.
So they become their components become more integrated or synchronized.
So their evolution, I think, can be reconciled with the cosmos.
But they I think they certainly abide by like an antithetical principle.
This is brilliant.
I mean, this is the armoring that we were talking about last time, too.
And, you know, it's fascinating how the skyscraper is fragile in particular ways that the the general activity of life is not in any way at all.
Exactly.
Same same kind of comparison anyway.
Exactly.
Exactly.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Not to return directly to the armoring stuff, but, you know, yeah, maybe sometime I'll ask more questions.
Yeah.
This this force appears to be.
Yeah.
Insulating itself or armoring itself against certain kinds of threats stemming perhaps from from us or, yeah, some other some other entity.
So it's it's like a so it is almost like a living biotic system.
I think it's evolution, I think, is somewhat decoupled at this point from anything like human consciousness.
But yeah, this makes you want to be behind.
Yeah.
Sorry, go on.
Yeah.
Just saying that, you know, the armoring, maybe it approaches time in a different direction.
Right.
As we've talked about.
But yeah, exactly.
The way it's so much more simple and fragile than life at this stage.
So this brings to mind a fundamental problem with modern humans in the context that we have failed to assemble together and are the subject to.
And these contexts pose us as separate individuals.
I would ask you to imagine the burdens experienced by a finger separated, not merely from the body, but also from the hand.
Right.
And then imposed upon this finger.
All of the necessities of agency and capacity that bodies and hands naturally have.
And then the finger in this case, the analogy is a single human being is punished and rewarded for its ability to either live up to.
That impossible.
I mean, formally impossible.
Projection.
Of agency and responsibility and obligation and so forth.
Or to whatever degree it fails to write, it is discarded and hated and suffers and doesn't get shelter or love or whatever.
So what I'm getting at here is.
The tragedy of the skyscraper is that all of its capacities for what resembles resilience in this case, this equals continuity of structure over time.
Continuity of structure and location over time and probably of content into internal and external structure.
The entire burden of resilience has to be on that single object.
Right. Whereas living systems distribute all these things.
They distribute vigilance.
They distribute prediction.
They distribute evaluation of ambiguity.
In our culture that we lose that distributive, that distributive benefit of living systems is replaced by simulated values and representations.
That fail completely to accomplish those things.
For example, the news.
The news does not equip you.
Very, very poorly.
It equips you to make better predictions.
It is not the derivation of an intelligent cohort over the possibility space.
It is the derivation of the absence of a cohort over the possibility space and the absence of a cohort affects the possibility space negatively.
So it's generating the problems that it pretends to be evaluating.
It's just fucking devastating.
My simple point is that, you know, in approaching a group of sparrows, one day they distributed their evaluations of me over the cohort.
Right. When I turned my head toward them, three of them left.
Took a step in that direction, seven more left.
Another step, 15 more.
Another step, three more.
Now closing in on them.
There are four on the ground.
They watch me vigilantly and don't leave.
So when we are isolated, we have to take on the entire vigilance burden that would ordinarily be taken on by shared by our coaches.
And similarly, we lose the benefits of inherited resilience.
Noticing this, we can establish cohorts that ameliorate that problem.
Not noticing this, we remain subject to it.
Obviously, individuals are going to be absolutely terrified of death.
They're not inheriting any resilience benefit from the cohorts around them.
I mean, a little bit.
We have hospitals or whatever, right?
Okay, I'll grant that.
But yeah, just notice the principle that I'm getting at here.
Intelligent cohorts distribute the vigilance burden.
They distribute the analysis of ambiguity.
They distribute the prediction burden.
Without intelligent cohorts, you got to do that shit yourself.
If you have to do all that yourself, you're going to naturally be frightened.
You're being called to do something that no organism should ever have to do.
And the reason that you're having to do that is that you live in a representational layer of fictions.
Illustrative fictions, representations of relationships, value, resilience, all these things.
So that thus deprive you of the actual benefits of the things represented, which you then must be, you know, then you're going to have to purchase them.
If you can see this and you can show this to people and teach these principles to children, they will naturally assemble cohorts that are real.
You can teach them how to do it if they're confused.
It's a small group endeavor.
You can accomplish it very quickly.
There are a variety of principles like this that I, you know, that I collect under the rubric of cognitive activism.
But in another sense, it's not cognitive activism.
It's relational activism.
Verbeke describes this as the participatory knowing that we've been, well, that has been destroyed, you know, has been taken from us.
It reminds me a little bit, you know, just hearkening back to our conversation of the symphony and jazz, where living healthy organisms live just merely within natural law and do as thou wilt.
will and what's interesting is the statistical robustness of that shakes
out from within their activity naturally they don't really have to make any
studies they don't have to develop any plans it sorts itself out and it's
interesting to me that the symphony or the skyscraper or the bridge approach in
the other direction naturally it doesn't do anything has to be very careful
armored very carefully considered very statistically checked you know and you
know I don't I don't want to drive the conversation this way necessarily or in
haste but what's really interesting to me is the you know we've discussed the
nature of the system of the you know I don't know the planning the the indebted
of these relationships these situations around us and what's really fascinating
is the the planet which is our heritage the reality which is our heritage was a
great weaving you know a great enmeshing a great connecting of all things and it's
notable I think it's really interesting how technical objects you know represent
the hedge against that the unraveling of that the separation of those elements
into armored individual techniques or devices but you know like capitalism is
that civilization is that it is the the unraveling of the ravel right and it's um
you know I guess it's merely just a hedge you know against what is but you know I
worry it's more I don't know it's interesting I don't know if that brings up
anything in anyone yeah well in the technical artifact the integration becomes
more concentrated as an object I think as Darren was saying so that concentration I
think is important to see because it it aligns with what I was saying earlier
about the nature of the mind so in other words the the the integration which
ordinarily occurs as a process is now becoming a kind of object or a kind of
product I just find that kind of interesting because what actually
distinguishes these forms of being is something like time so the the mode of
being of a plant is distinguished from the mode of being of skyscraper in terms of
something like time there's a temporal distinction and I think you said that
beautifully you know correct me if I'm wrong in that every technical object is a
host of forgettings you know right yeah but I think that forgetting is a kind of echo of a
more general process that also occurs in in living things it's like an analog like a
mirror image something I'd like to take place in the mind something I'd like to
point out here this transformation into product it transfers continuity of structure over time and
know actually I've got that backwards it transfers continuity of relationship over time into dead
structure over time and so it transfers the expectation of relation into what can be perceived as non dying
immortal right that structure over time is represented as immortal you buy the car it's immortal you buy the
house it's immortal it will outlast you
so it transfers the benefit of relational integrity over time into the deathless expectation
of structural continuity reliable absence of ambiguity no need for predictions
turns down the volume on vigilance dramatically doesn't eliminate it but turns it way down
very important to notice this exchange it helps us to see what the fuck is actually going on here and why it's so successful
successful right it's successful because it takes care it pretends to take care of the problem of death that exists
in a bad fiction about death right it pretends to take care of that and brush it aside
with reliable structural continuity over time
yeah and what is the gift you know i i was thinking of this earlier and because i think this ties deeply into
our entire conversation but if a rose took our approach how would that go
we made a medal i mean it would never bloom right because to hazard the bloom you know reduces its reserves
yeah it would put its energy into its root into its stability alone
its fear of death would preclude it from ever flourishing
no bird would ever fly yep that's way too fucking dangerous what you want
is a rock cave
and just protect that opening baby
and let nothing near that opening and when the the bird you know the bird that never pollinates when it dies
as it will you know of course it it takes all that with it
right it it did not reproduce its gift it did not reinforce the life of which it was
right yeah i think maybe the idea that death is at the end of some process
is incomplete or mistaken oh no it's wrong yeah it's wrong you can see that in a rose as you were saying
yeah yeah yeah there's all kinds of crazy things going on here with death that we're not
we're just not uh what's the right word we are not
paying careful attention to this idea i had a few weeks ago that i think is very compelling and it's
a toy i'm not saying it's what's going on but i think it's a very important toy to entertain
and it goes like this
all of your intelligences your capacity your urgency to learn your desire
for experience and relation and novelty and food and sleep and dreaming and love
and all that you find a fine right all that you are drawn to and all that you uh
despise and turn away from right affinity and disaffinity or there's a better word for
disaffinity but all of these things imagine that what that what you're using to
feel to navigate the sort of magnetic compass within you
that draws you to this and makes you object and draws you away from that and all of these things
that these are death leaking back into your current moment of life
so that actually everything that you desire and everything you avoid the intelligences
that orient those experiences of your interiority are actually from after this life
they are death's intelligences they are the knowledge you will have when your soul is outside of linear time
they are your death speaking back into your life
so therefore this goes back to that thing where i was talking about what potentiates the possibility of music
as being more interesting than music itself this is the same kind of thing because
what potentiates the possibility of this being desirable or good is the thing you most avoid
death from this perspective which again i present as a toy i'm not saying this is what i think is true
but it's a very interesting uh way of playing
with perspective and i think probably has some value or truth
it might even be very true i just don't know i have no way to tell
so i mean at the very least the fear of death at minimum right right
and we don't even have to really call it a fear we we should call it a concern
many great sages particularly um comes to mind don juan
uh a probably fictional but not necessarily fictional sage from the castanaden
writings um they talk at length about uh keeping the fear of death
present in awareness keeping the awareness of death present in your mind in every moment of your life
using it as uh as an intelligence right make it make of it a symbiotic satellite intelligence
treat it as a being whose intelligence is your companion
now obviously if we took death very seriously and rather than fearing it listened
most of what we do we would not do
our orientation would be very different we would not we would not value the things we value you we
would not avoid that many of the things we avoid we would prioritize what we listen to and what we don't
very differently all of these things i think
and eventually in life you know we have different experiences of our expectations
of mortality and immortality in different life phases
um you know in my phase it has become very obvious that i will die and you know relatively soon
possibly very soon
it's unclear when but it's like when i was young
life i was aware that death existed but life seemed effectively eternal i knew very few people who had died
now i know many people who have died my health is clearly uh not robust
um lots of i am just aware right of the proximity of death and part of what that makes me desire
is not necessarily and i see this in some of my friends as well particularly the more desperate their
life situation the more what i'm about to propose um becomes troublingly clear
they're looking for a way particularly the men
they're looking for a way to exit that is meaningful they don't want to die deprived of their
liberties all right so they're looking for a way out that's meaningful they're looking for a place
to make a last stand so to speak i'm not particularly that way but i do recognize the difference between
um protecting something too long
so that its assets are not reinvested in the living world right this is what we
this is weirdly what we mean by make a you know like leave a legacy or something
but which kind of legacy do you leave a representational one you're an author or an actor
you leave films or you're the guy that dies saving you know saving children
i know this doctor he works in germany he's a young guy makes a lot of money
um i met him on xbox playing games and twice a month he gets in a helicopter with some emts
surgeons and psychologists and goes directly to some site where people are just being obliterated by
whatever floods war they just go there and they do on-site triage and um
you know he's risking his life every time he gets in that copter
he's also a neurosurgeon he has like three specializations which is extremely uncommon in
and especially young doctors um but the other thing he does
is he lives very frugally and he gives most of the money he makes to his patients so they can pay
for the medical procedures that they have to undergo
now of course this is all according to his report
um i haven't seen this but i but the stories he tells about what happens in the helicopter and stuff
are very difficult to imagine having been concocted it's not impossible but it seems unlikely
uh so yeah this is the kind of guy who he's not writing a book right he's not making a movie he's not you
know doesn't have 17 albums that became solid gold not that those are necessarily without value
but the giving of one's existence for the for the survival and well-being of others
that's a pretty profound thing and it's different from making representational artifacts
and art and things i mean i love art don't get me wrong these are just two different sort of uh motivations
if you will radically different
it's really notable and interesting how much this culture focuses on the representational
versions of what you described right there's a there's something in there's a there's a hint of
something interesting on that direction but you know what's also interesting to me is that
my body will be consumed by the organisms of the earth one way or another you know my my waste is
consumed by the organisms of the earth one way or another and the interesting question to me there
where in terms of legacy how fully you know do you reciprocate the relationships
you know how how deeply do you give back to what gave you you know not in forms of cognition necessarily
but if if we're of these relationships and not the deadening of interactions
then it's interesting and notable you know how deeply we resonate with that what is our life's gift
back to the tomato plant which gave me its life's gift you know um how truly do you live
you know one of the commitments i made when i was given i do feel i was given it perhaps at great cost
i'm not sure the the capacity for insight far beyond anything i had previously experienced
you know i made a sort of oath which was i would remember the um i would be loyal to and remember
all the beings who came before me and would come after all the different layers of being and times
space and i would sing to the humans their praises and try to awaken the possibility of an amnesis like
unforgetting in my people i didn't do that because it was requested of me i did it because i couldn't help it
i fell in love with everything i was already in love with everything alive
um but i but during these experiences i fell in love with its with their origins and natures and
things i'd never seen into before and i'm not trying to claim that um my uh that this behavior
in me is somehow heroic or something like that that would be stupid and ironic i mean that would
in some ways obviate any intrinsic virtue that might exist in there i'm just saying i can't help it
it's how i am made to be this way well in that way i think you're in good company among all living
things yeah i mean they must want the humans to wake up because whatever the is going on
in our species something's gone horribly sideways as far as i can tell
i mean it is really fascinating that um you know and this is probably
obvious but you know as you were saying um the the pledge you made is somehow aligned with
all of those things that give us earthly pleasure you know um all of our connections all of our
relationships all of the tension all of the textures all of the sense all of the drives all of the truest
desires you know not not the um you know not the desire of someone who wants more than they can have
but all the people who all the things who um appreciate what comes to them all of those desires are
aligned and giving back to the whole these urgencies i would suggest are inborn in all beings
and they are uniquely inborn in humans
uh but in humans very strangely and suspiciously and kind of supernaturally um they are diminished
inhibited amputated circumcised punished deformed tortured lied about i mean it's really very suspicious if
we look carefully here at the humans it's obvious like something extremely weird and unexpected is going
on and i'm very curious about that because those urgencies never died in my heart
so one thing that's um you know in in all my conversations with george i think you probably
you know i'm always kind of scraping and groping to find that thing too you know just as you said the
you know what's what's weird here what went wrong but one thing i don't you know i'm curious how
anyone to tell anyone to react to this you know the way it works is there's a hedge against all things
you know we um we have a role here we have an ancient purpose and the the knowledge and skill set to do it
frankly i mean you know as you said isn't it just incredible we have hands
you know our our apparatus is not the mode that allows us to navigate you know it's not the
it's not the claws that allow us to consume it's the hands for making the hands for building you know
and that's that's really interesting um and rare and uh you know i do think that that is what we
did for a very very very long time just taking the contemporary view of of science and you know
thinking back to the enormous amount of time humans were here before history you know the civilizations his
tory um but at some point you know a new factor arises just like every successful species gets
a disease every successful species gets a predator we somehow internally you know discovered the
capacity the resources we got the power and were successful enough that now there's a hedge arising
even against us you know us being life on this planet
i feel like i take some solace in the idea that these technical inventions are fragile and life is so much
more robust but we're living in the time of the hedge against life you know which is yeah really really
surprising and interesting and maybe we are the hedge within that hedge you know
yeah that makes a lot of sense to me
i was recently delving into human origins which i think is a related subject but
yeah the idea that nature is red in tooth and claw is so pervasive in our approach to life and
particularly you know human evolution which is pretty comical almost all of our ideas appear to me to be like
mostly upside down hey my friend moses is here exactly upside down right
yeah that inversion makes me wonder
i wonder about the upside down nature of it yeah it's very intentionally upside down it doesn't seem
happenstance right
did you say the socratic nature of it can you what did you say oh the systematic nature of it yeah okay
absolutely makes me wonder it's you know if you uh
i don't i don't know who if you're some druid you know 10 000 years ago and you saw
the situation you know you saw the robustness and the beauty and the density and
you know but like you could light a little fire and you know one day it would grow to become a very big
fire but that's that's nowhere in your lifetime
just like it would be really interesting to be a consciousness to wonder what it would like to be
to have existence it might have been interesting to have existence and wonder what it would like to be
to destroy it sure yeah but i think as darren was saying perhaps we should overcome
the notion that life is something that we possess in the same way that i was saying earlier that maybe
we should overcome the idea that minds are possessions we have minds yeah that i think that's a source of
confusion um there's a there's a connection there i think
yep
it's a co-having it's a being yeah like even within like existentialism i think they get this wrong
um when they when they think of like even heidegger when he thinks about how
death is like some kind of non-event so you're living you're living you're living but you never reach
you know i'm dead so death for like the existentialists is some kind of non-being or
non-event i just think that's it's it's still too linear so you still think that you're living you're
living you're living i would say no that you're not actually doing that in the first place you're not
sort of existing on this uh you know parabolic line or trajectory that's moving towards some
terminus like that's not even what's going on in the first place so um i think maybe that's a more
helpful frame just to question that um perhaps death is more integral to life itself than we think
so they're not actually like opposed they're not at opposite ends of some spectrum they're they're
actually perhaps identical or they're they're co-extensive they co-exist
sort of absolutely it's kind of confused yeah i you know i think there's a lot of reasons i wouldn't
define myself as an extent existentialist but um you know i worry about some of the ramifications
of the movement toward existentialism particularly these days one of the the ways in which i mean that
is that at least you know what little i've been exposed to or you know you know i don't pretend really
to know any philosophy um it seems to me that existentialism has been perceived as carte blanche
here we are and it's up to you to make whatever you will of it
i think we have a greater responsibility actually
you know i i reject that kind of um relativism
right right because you still think if you're sort of in that frame that your life is your
responsibility well no it's not it's not yours to begin with it's like ridiculous yeah exactly nailed it
yeah it's kind of kind of comical
yeah but that that confusion i think is perhaps one of the sources of clinging the idea that we
we live and that living is a kind of state of being that we that we depart at some point like i don't
know if that's even true um but that i think that undergirds some of these you know concerns or some of
these impulses um yeah absolutely you know you know it used to be the two worlds mythology right
devalues this reality the idea of possession and separation you know that you were outlining inherent
to existentialism devalues our relationships in this reality
you know um i mean i don't you know i don't want this really to depart into um terribly new subjects but
there's still something about that armoring and that kind of um
um do you see the technological movement as um merely a hedge that must exist within the sphere of
life you know capital l life or do you think that the armoring movement you know the technological movement
is a thing unto itself and will supersede life or somehow you know i'm kind of curious what you see
as you know the the dynamics of these forces
yeah i think technical evolution involves the same kind of feedback that takes place in us
in human consciousness but its evolution is independent of anything that takes place in
our own sort of evolutionary trajectory now so i think feedback is the common element
um so basically feedback explains this process of integration over time i think which is a
a kind of physical process in the body of the technical being
um that feedback i think has a kind of ideal catalyst or point of genesis so it originated in a kind of symbol
um which is like an archetype something i think something similar takes place in a living system
uh like in in our bodies or in something like a tree or an animal so there's a kind of analogy there
um but its relationship to time is as we mentioned i think distinct
um yeah that's brilliant i'm putting it in terms of that feedback of that relationship
i think that connects a lot of dots right and that was why i was curious to explore with you
maybe more thoughts on the future what you think of maybe thermodynamically in terms of
um what the future might be or its relationship to uh entropy there could be some connection there
worth exploring but in terms of reconciling what actually distinguishes that form of time or that
kind of temporality uh i might be reluctant to simply say that it's the distinction between the past
in the future but there could be i think a deeper connection there because like if you look at the
work of simondon or de luz uh they both seemed to indicate that technicity is a kind of movement
arising out of the future and percolating into the present uh which would make sense of its connection
to death in the first place as darren was saying right um if we regard death as a kind of supervening
force or mode of existence like even heidegger uh toward the end of his career in his life he
started to regard technology as a kind of um force that was anathema to being i'm not sure if that's
you know a coherent point of view but it's i think it's resonant with the views of de luz
so they all seem to be converging on a similar point of view that might you know contain something
worthwhile um and i can see how our own discussion is sort of like broaching that uh that subject so
i think there's something to it but i haven't totally fleshed it out but understanding the energy
or the thermodynamic uh implications would be helpful
it sure does seem to me you know a first blush anyway that this relationality um seems to resolve
a lot of that to me anyway which is great to see you know i i just um you know there's this uh more
narrow technical sense of entropy and i'm not sure all of its premises should be taken for granted as they
you know exist within kind of contemporary science and whatever blind spots it may have
particularly about the arrow of time and the inexorable increase of entropy no matter what
you know right that's good yeah i don't i don't know one thing that's really interesting to me of course
is the energy flows you know at least um as we understand them which i think also has some limits um
but you know i don't feel the same kind of uh concern
you know as we link the kind of interconnectionality of all things including technical objects
and organisms right i mean i i really you know you get down into the you know the biochemistry of it all
and it's just amazing to see like how you know machines is how beautiful of a machine we all are
and that that's even kind of an insult frankly you know it's it's it's beyond that but you know it's common
parlance so but i don't know you know um these kind of ultimate questions that you were mentioning
with um heidegger and uh it's brilliant stuff i really love kind of indulging in it but um
um thinking about all things and i think so much of your physics kind of relates to this thinking
about all things in their connections that that is you know a better way to understand reality
is the reality of those connections of course not their individualism and i think that really
it goes a long ways toward banishing that sort of outlook of separation and causation and um
ultimate finality and of any sort but i don't know right well i mean that's good to hear because the
whole idea that the universe is simply winding down through entropy um seems pretty suspect to me
i mean it only makes sense if you imagine that the universe is like a box with gas in it that slowly
sort of fills the box and and loses uh order or becomes more chaotic but i really just doubt that
the universe is anything like a box or anything like a container just it doesn't make any sense to me
um and i think it would only make sense in in those terms so like if you imagine that the universe is
like a shoe box with things moving around then over time you might imagine that the sort of uh
maybe the the the orderliness of uh the situation within the box would would uh decrease over time
um but yeah i just i really just don't buy the whole notion that the universe is anything like a
spatial you know wings are just um hammers with feathers on them
those are just factories with some meat painted on right right everybody knows this yeah obviously
and yeah it's um you know it finds its own assumptions right like it it determines what it
was based upon when it set out which is really interesting you know and it just it occurs to me
in a similar way that you know newtonian mechanics is maybe uh a helpful back of the napkin kind of
ballpark guesstimate that apparently can put people on the moon whatever that even means um that's
interesting and notable you know and and perhaps there's uh a set within which these quote unquote
laws of thermodynamics were determined right but i think it's become apparent even in mainstream science
that there's some just enormous blind spots and likely some massive misunderstandings misconceptions
and i think it comes down to even the thermodynamic defiance of photosynthesis you know which i think
i've mentioned on a previous call at some point there's still there's some kind of magic in there that we
don't uh that contemporary science does not understand at all and yet energy flows is a thing too which is
is independently fascinating
guys i gotta roll for now um george i'd be grateful if you send me a link to the recording
i'd like to post it if no one objects oh sure should i stop it now or no no not not by any stretch of the
imagination uh i'm gonna i'm gonna sign off for now but i love you guys you're amazing i just it's so
great to have these conversations it's it's the opposite of church
i love it yes rejuvenating so yeah all blessings to you and uh until next time all right darren love you
see you he's cheers it'll be too if if you have anything on the tip of your tongue that would be
great but you know i'd i'd just love to pick this up maybe at another time i may have some things but
there's a lot of leads for good future conversation yeah certainly let's um yeah let's delve into that
later well cheers i hope you're well and stay well yeah thanks you too i'll see you soon sounds great i hope
so bye bye
you
