Hello everybody. Welcome. Grateful to have this time together to explore and
remember and learn about the vast terrains beyond what we think of as our
humanity. Those terrains belong to us, not in the sense of colonists, in the
sense of children that belong to a place and a family of peoples. Most of what we
are is not human and never was and one of the most deceptive, one of the most
deceptive con games, delusions, illusions and fictions that we become subject to
during the process, the processes we undergo in childhood of in languaging and
inculturation, is simply the idea that we are humans. Any category we can refer to
in language literally has infinite qualities. So the idea that a word or a
category can properly delimit what it points at is false to facts in a
fundamental way. It is a lie. It is a convenience that we can use intelligently
if we are oriented to use it intelligently. If we are not, it uses us and makes
prison-like features in consciousness as a result of its intrusion into our
cognitive behavioral space, the possibility space of human cognition, our cognition.
Now if I'm not human, why do I keep using this word? I use it because it's an
agreement we all have. We sort of understand what it means. But what I'm
asking you today to bear in mind as I speak and as we explore together is that I'm
using it in the opposite way it's normally used, in the sense that everything in the
universe is us. Right? Invert the polarity. The human is the supreme thing around here,
the apex cognitive animal, the technological animal, so forth. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
That's backwards. The human is everything that you've been told you aren't and cannot be.
Including the capacity to make very bad machine noise that attacks everything it comes near and much of what it doesn't.
The entire domain of the impossible is you. The entire domain of what we think of as the superhuman, that's you.
That's us. This idea that we are limited in time, space, embodiment, consciousness, intelligence,
any of these things. It can be made true, right? In the same way that someone who enslaves humans can capture a human
and put them in a situation where they are unable to use their limbs effectively, we can be placed in a similar
situation by nothing more than language. It doesn't require that there be a bad man or, you know, a slave making
people or anything like this. None of that's required. In our situation, because of how we are cognitive, we can be
invested with ideas, we can be impregnated with ideas that become traps in our thought, behavior, social relationships,
organismal relationships, and transcendental relationships, so that we are unable to move.
What you are is so much more profound than anything that's ever been hinted at to you.
You are more than all the stories, all the science, all the religion. Compared to you, language would shrivel
up into a charred husk. Your mind was made for activities and developmental arcs and relationships
that would cripple the gods. And I'm sure some of you think like, well, that's a little grandiose,
Darren.
Stay with me. We'll figure out whether it's grandiose or not. And if it is, we'll correct for it.
Because I'm not here to sing fantasies. I'm here in an attempt to remember what it means to be the
kinds of beings that we truly are and can become. And the difference between those vistas and what we're
and what we're ordinarily engaged with and serving that causes us to forget.
Okay, where are we going here?
I have some pivots, some pivotal desires in mind here.
And I have to fight against, not fight against, I have to work past the features of my own habit,
bias and distraction that ordinarily make it very, very difficult for me to achieve escape velocity
from the structured traps that, like you, I have inherited and sustained.
Why do we sustain them? Because they are familiar, we know how they work.
We know all the little ways they work, they are familiar, we don't feel afraid,
even if we are going to be deprived or impoverished by them.
We don't feel afraid because we know how they work.
This is a common feature of human psychology and behavior.
This is in part why men who have been in prison, once released, yes, they face many challenges,
but one of the challenges they face is that everything on the inside works in a very specific set of ways,
that is almost always exactly the same, is totally predictable.
And this takes the burden away that you would ordinarily have to relate with or engage.
The burdens of vigilance within ambiguity and prediction.
Vigilance, ambiguity, prediction, these three principles.
These highly orient human thought and behavior.
And anything that reduces the necessity of vigilance, anything that reduces the ambiguity, including a trap, is very compelling,
particularly if it's not a physical trap.
If the trap is invisible and it reduces ambiguity, it reduces the need for prediction, it reduces the need for vigilance,
this can become extremely compelling.
You know, I've just come from a call with the Extinctionati.
We have our meetings on Sundays, and those of you who might be interested, feel free to reach out to me.
And after a complex vetting process where you'll have to submit DNA,
and we need to know your blood type and your ancestral lineage and stuff,
you may be lucky enough to be admitted to the conversation.
No, I'm kidding.
Reach out if you're interested, leave a comment, get in touch.
Get in touch.
I just come from a conversation with them which is really like,
might as well be like flying in a UFO or something compared to what humans normally do together.
Absence.
So I have two kind of pivots that I want to explore today.
And maybe a couple more.
I'm thinking, I'm just going to name them, which I don't usually do.
I usually just wander along the path.
The first one is the problem for humans of relating with absences.
Right?
Particularly of relating with absences as presences, absences that we treat as if they are presences.
And I will suggest that the idea of evil, which is fundamental to human concern, thought, philosophy, religion, even perhaps science,
civilization, economies, and so forth.
Right?
All these things.
The problem of evil may well orbit this particular pivot.
Is there any such thing?
Is evil the absence of something or is it the presence of something?
And it doesn't have to be one or the other.
Right?
We want to actually avoid concrete, bipolar perspectives unless they're very useful and we don't take them as, as, God, what's the word?
Well, it's not concrete.
Maybe the word will come back to me.
We don't take them as universally true, but there's a word I want here.
It starts with C, I'm pretty sure.
Perhaps it will come back to me.
We don't take them as canonical.
We don't take them as, I'll find it.
I'll have to, I'll have to orbit my hippocampus for a minute.
The other, another pivot.
By the way, notice in language the difference between a and the.
It's very, very important.
These two little words, universes of different meaning.
If I say, here's a solution to this problem, or here's a perspective we might find useful.
That's very different from if I say, here's the solution to the problem.
Right?
And this is the same thing I'm talking about in the question about evil.
And absences that appear as presences.
Or are treated as presences, or can be treated as presences.
Can be related with, as if they are presences.
Can be funny.
Can be funny.
Can be funny.
Can be funny.
Okay, one of the other pivots is the nature and importance of the intelligences that orbit and influence and are involved in human behavior fundamentally.
But particularly, human reproductive behavior.
Everything oriented around, everything that orbits eros, attraction, disgust, right, affinity and antipathy.
Everything that orbit, the intelligences that orbit those things.
And the unique semi-binary implementations that we could understand under the rubric, we could understand under the rubric of the masculine and the feminine.
And, you know, I can include the non-binary continua in there, but I'm going, if I talk about this today, I'm going to talk primarily about the familiar, incompletely explicit binaries.
The intelligences that orient reproductive behavior.
Okay, so absences as presences.
Gosh, I can't even hold these things in my mind long enough to present them.
No wonder I don't usually do this.
Well, both way out, but they built like this railway between, like, the trees and things from the ground and those flames from the ground.
Another pivot is the difference between a situation in which we find ourselves, where the milieu is intelligent enough, that we utilize the tools to accomplish developmental liberation, ecstasis, ecstasy, anamnesis, unforgetting.
Right?
We bend the tools to our shared and intrinsically virtuous purposes.
The difference between that and a situation in which our tools bend us to their reproduction.
Oh, thank goodness, I found the third pivot.
I want you to understand, or to imagine with me, a very strange world, a kind of a science fiction dystopia where the, quote, intelligent, unquote, species makes millions of films about being superhuman together, with and for each other,
and the sake of liberation, and justice, and truth, and anamnesis, and rebalancing.
Right?
They make millions of films about stuff they never do together.
They do every other thing except the things in these films, and they consume the films and make them as if they're the most important thing they could possibly do, but they don't become those things.
Right?
So they make millions of films, for example, well, many, many films, about, I don't know, the Lord of the Rings.
Right?
There's a terrible threat to the entire world.
Everybody's going to be enslaved.
One guy has the key that the threat needs to fulfill its enslavement of the history and future of life on this world.
He can't carry that key.
He's terrified.
He's small.
He's injured.
He's vulnerable.
He's got to get this key to destroy, to a place where it can be destroyed, this ring, which, you know, is one of the rings of power.
And the Nazgul are hunting him.
And the ring is compelling because it gives him liberation from what?
From what?
From observation.
It liberates him from the observation of others.
That's its power.
And every time he uses that power, it becomes more gravidic.
It's an absence.
What's it the absence of?
It's the absence of the observation of others, which is a kind of liberation, but also a trap.
Right?
And that absence becomes more compelling every time he tastes it.
Just like the absence of concern and fear and perhaps shame that arises when we take certain intoxicants or engage in certain behaviors.
Bungee jumping would be one example.
Skydiving.
Not claiming these behaviors are bad.
Not making value judgments.
Just noticing that we humans engage in behaviors to forget the prison-earing, the cages that prison-eer our experience in our ordinary day-to-day lives for many of us.
Now, sometimes we are much more intelligent and we come together under an aegis, under a herald, a heraldic image or standard.
We come together under a mutually agreed purpose to anamnese, to un-forget, to liberate each other, to remember virtue, to enact virtue together, to enact freedom and creativity.
And justice in the sense not of vengeance, but of beauty.
Right?
We do this together.
And this can be a convocation.
For some of us, strangely, kind of somewhat absurdly, but not entirely absurdly, we call this church.
Right? We go to church.
It's a very strange word.
Church.
Church.
Church.
Church.
Church.
Church.
Yeah?
There was this episode of Star Trek a long time ago.
It was really brilliant.
I wish I knew off the top of my head who the author was.
Where the Enterprise encounters...
Okay.
What happens is another starship is orbiting a planet of low-tech knowledge, right?
They're not warp capable.
So this planet falls under the prime directive of not fucking with their developmental arc.
The Enterprise finds this starship orbiting a planet, but the starship is deserted.
And they go down to the planet and they are immediately deprived of their tech.
Right?
They're deprived of their communicators and their phasers and stuff.
And they find out that the captain of the previous ship is setting himself up down there to be a kind of a ruler.
And there are two primary factions, social factions, political factions down on this planet.
And they're very primitive.
One of them is called the comms.
I'm not sure what the other one is called.
It might be the proles.
And they discover that these peoples have these books.
And, you know, we only see one of the books.
But late in the episode when the crew of the Enterprise is trying to understand what the hell has gone on here.
And why this starship captain has violated the prime directive and how they can set things right.
One of the factions pulls out this tattered object, which Kirk sort of recognizes as something he probably hasn't personally encountered because he's from the future.
But it looks like the flag of the United States.
And they have this book or this scroll or something that they venerate as holy and they bring it out.
And then they start to read it and it's like...
E...
E...
E...
P...
P...
E...
O...
D...
O...
O...
O...
E...
O...
E...
O...
E...
O...
E...
F...
O...
Nile.
And Kirk's like racking his brains like, God, that sounds kind of familiar.
And then he realizes, no, they're not reading it right.
They've never seen English.
It says, we, the people, in order to form a more perfect union.
Not a perfect union.
A more perfect union.
A union that can improve on itself over time.
That was the goal.
That was the goal.
But the reason I point this story out is when you hear a word like, ch, er, ch, you should
recognize there's a history there.
Those sounds are metaphysically powerful.
This is not an accidental combination of letters.
Which is what we are basically told that spelling is in school.
It's not.
It never was.
The letters have meanings.
The sounds, they have meanings.
And you can learn these meanings.
We can remember these meanings together.
Dr. Hillman, who I often speak of lately, he is aware of this.
And although he sneers at certain languages, which is, you know, kind of unfortunate, because
it's kind of unnecessary, it's also useful that he's very focused in one direction because
it produces a sharp, incisive perspective.
But he knows about these matters.
He knows the sounds are not arbitrary.
The sounds in our words, they're not arbitrary.
In fact, they are magical.
And in fact, even more strange, and you know, others have remarked on this problem.
What we call spelling is actually the composition of invocations, evocations, bindings, exorcisms, and other magical acts.
We teach our children that it's mundane.
There's no fucking chance of that being true.
When you teach children that spelling and language are mundane, you are crippling them.
Because then they will live in the prisons of mundanity their entire lifetimes and believe that there's nothing like magic or the Muses or the Mayanads or the Elohim or the Gods.
What they might unfortunately come to believe is that there's a tyrannical single God, which is a terrifying idea.
That honestly I think is impossible, cannot be true.
Though, there might be a communally, like, the sum of the organs of being is usefully understood as a unity, but not a tyranny.
Not a vengefulness, not a vengefulness, not an angry thing, and not a judge.
It's complex, this interplay between what we could think of as monotheism and polytheism.
Hillman despises monotheism and sees it, perhaps to some degree rightfully, to maybe a large degree rightfully, as the origin of various kinds of tyranny and departure from truth and beauty and virtue.
I can see, I can totally see that image.
However, I tend not to be a polar binary thinker.
Right?
So I'm unlikely to think, oh, that's the only thing that's going on.
It's only that.
Monotheism is only that.
That can't be so.
It might be.
Though I'm willing to learn more and be, you know, if necessary, corrected or whatever.
We never have a perfect position.
What we have is the capacity to improve on previous movements in our developmental arcs.
And that's what we should be paying attention to.
That capacity to improve together.
To remember better.
To see better.
To grow more beautifully.
To forget together.
To adore and liberate and treasure each other and our world and all beings and the history and future of minds and lives in time space.
That's the imperative that I trust.
Right?
Any other imperative that starts to collapse toward a very singular mission, I get, I start to get itchy about that.
I don't, I don't really trust it.
Right?
I don't really trust that.
Sometimes it can be useful.
Okay, here's the other weird thing, though.
One of the questions that came up earlier with the Extinction Adi.
Someone asked,
Is there ever an absence appearing as a presence that is beneficial?
And I, I did respond to the question.
This person and I have discussed the process of working with questions lately.
And one of the things we came to together was that it's not so much that we answer a question or that we address it.
Rather, we pursue it and preserve it and transform it and pursue it and collapse it and reforge it and pursue it and transform it together.
We stay married to the question.
An answer is a divorce.
Right?
If your question is really good, you don't want a divorce.
An answer is the end of your capacity to learn to see better.
Don't answer it.
Keep playing with it.
When you look at human sports, really they orbit a question and it's a question of supremacy, isn't it?
Now, there are much better questions to ask in a lot of ways than which side is supreme.
Right?
And what I was going to say earlier is that it occurs to me, and I think it's important to remember this, that it's often important to make very specific.
Your mistakes are as important as your successes.
Right?
It's very important to make beautiful mistakes that lead to better successes.
We think like, oh, I don't want to make mistakes.
I want to get it perfect the first time.
And some of us, particularly those of us who are a little bit obsessive or unusually minded, or we ache to perfect our arts and our behaviors and our thought and our actions.
Right?
We ache to be perfect.
Perfect isn't a destination.
It's a direction.
Right?
Because there's no such thing as a finished perfection.
Yeah?
No such thing.
It doesn't exist.
It's a misnomer.
It's a misapprehension of the situation.
Right?
Perfection is a direction.
Nothing is ever perfected.
It's only abandoned.
Every artist knows this.
Right?
The direction toward more beauty, more truth, more virtue, more being more compelling is infinite.
So at some point you say, ah, this is close enough for today I am satisfied.
And this is how it is in development, in growth, in an amnesis, in intelligence, in relationships, in beauty.
We walk in beauty together with and for each other and the history and future of all beings in all of time.
We go together.
We destroy the paths that trapped us.
We reforge the paths of liberty together with and for each other.
This is the direction toward a more perfect union.
Whether that union is temporally bounded, geographically bounded, relationally bounded, ethnically bounded, filially bounded, linguistically bounded, mathematically bounded, conceptually bounded.
It doesn't matter.
It doesn't matter.
It's the same principle.
Virtue over the manifold.
Collapse the previously useful but incomplete path.
Forge a new and better path.
Elaborate that path.
Elaborate that path.
Traverse it together.
Collapse it.
Start the process over.
This is what actual intelligence does.
This is what leads to insight over dogma.
Right?
This guy Dan McClellan who likes to attack Dr. Hillman.
And it's a natural antipathy between those two.
I know that Hillman knows this.
Hillman knows that his game naturally attracts these sort of, I don't even know what to, I'm not going to be mean.
This game naturally attracts, Hillman's game naturally attracts the enmity of servants of the canonical narratives.
Hillman learned this when he tried to publish his PhD thesis or his dissertation, I guess it's called.
Right?
By the way, that word must be really interesting because what the hell does that word even mean?
Dis-er-ta-tion.
Dis-er-ta-tion.
Well, if you want to see, I didn't elucidate the meaning of ch-er.
Ch.
But that er, you can understand that as meaning primordial.
And also it means you are, as in you are something.
Right?
So ch, you are, ch.
But di-is-er-ta-tion.
This Asian suffix, primordially magical.
Primordial.
You can imagine, I'll give you some clues without fully elucidating it, right?
You can imagine the at symbol.
Right?
A-T-I-O-N.
The at symbol.
And then an I becoming illumined.
Okay?
At, I, light entering the I, illumining it from within with intelligence and anamnesis.
That's insight, awareness, compassion, virtue, beauty.
Justice as in rebalancing.
So forth.
The virtues, right?
Charity.
Moderation.
All these things.
Shen, right?
A-tion.
You see the moderation.
Communication.
Relation.
A-tion.
So at, I, on.
But then you can also see the first.
A is the first.
T is the tree, which is a radio.
It's not just a radio that transmits.
It's a, it's a transceiver.
It transmits and receives and transforms signals toward anamnesis and intelligence and
communal unity.
So the first tree, a self or an individual is the I, right?
So A-T-I.
In a self, which seems to be separate, but is actually a representative of the entire community
of all beings.
I.
And then O.
O.
O is like O-H, right?
Like O.
O.
O.
Oh, God.
O.
Right?
The orgasm.
A recognition.
Transcendence in the circle of the communal body.
The polis, as Hillman might call it.
The chorus.
Oh.
Oh.
The, the exclamation of insight.
Oh.
All this time it was, oh, what?
It was like this?
Yes.
Oh.
The N is a resolution, but it's a resolution into new children.
It breeds child processes that are imbued with the inspiration and the urgency of the
awakening, the orgasm, the awe, the wonder, the insight.
A-tion.
Incubation, conception.
Sometimes there's no A, sometimes it's just shen.
But that T is a tree.
That A is firstness, primacy, primordialness, power.
It's a motive power.
It penetrates and impregnates and fertilizes and travels and is like lightning.
Right?
It is power.
And it is authorized.
That A is authorization.
That T is also the cross.
Which, if you put it in the center of a circle, gives you the capacity to navigate.
To move, to know where to go.
To use a compass, for example.
There is magic in these letters, my listeners.
Magic.
And the same is very much true in Greek.
But you kind of can't get away from it in any language that has spellings, that has letters.
Hieroglyphic languages are a different kind of phenomenon.
Ideographic languages are a different kind of phenomenon.
Yet, they are still magical.
They are just a different method of encoding the magic.
Wow.
I love to see people's T-shirts because they are like human billboards, right?
They are projecting something out into the world.
The other day, someone pointed to mine and said, like, I don't like these.
I am like, what is it you don't like?
And she said, oh, these shirts, they are like sports.
They are sports shirts.
They are shirts about sports teams.
Because my shirt has like a blue band, and then a figure in the middle, and then a red
band on the other side.
Which, by the way, is totally amazing.
If you think about the meanings of red and blue, and the figure in the middle, who is white,
in this case.
And I said, this isn't a sports team shirt.
And she said, what is it?
And she looked at it, and she said, oh, it's Tai Chi.
Because she knows I study Tai Chi.
And I said, no, no, it's not Tai Chi.
I said, what is it?
I said, it's Ultraman.
Ultraman.
My son gave me this shirt.
It's an Ultraman shirt.
It's funny.
Alright, so, where are we here?
In a situation where you are in an intelligent culture that knows what not to do, and can
triangulate on the good, the true, the beautiful, the virtuous, the holy, the divine.
Language and technology aren't intrinsically bad.
But in a culture where those things are not the orienting intelligences in the people.
In a situation where those virtues have become absent.
Right?
They are absences.
Absence of virtue.
Then what happens is that the tools use the people to reproduce.
Look at cars.
Right?
Humans aren't making cars.
Cars are making humans make cars.
You're not making language.
Language is making you make language.
Right?
Now, there are exceptions.
There are people who bend the language to their purposes.
They bend the tools to their purposes, especially when their purposes are beautiful and involve
liberation, an amnesis, unforgetting, the resurrection of virtue, the resurrection of the educated polis with and for each other.
The true forms of justice that are not merely vengeance and that do not frame crime as a banking game, which is insane.
You can't pay for a crime.
You can't pay for a crime.
That's the dumbest idea in the history of ideas.
What you do, justice doesn't necessarily, shouldn't look like eviscerate the criminal.
Right?
Punish the criminal.
Make them pay.
That's the dumbest idea ever.
Justice looks like you presume that the criminal has concentrated a poison in your society.
And you trace the poison through the criminal.
You trace the poison back to its roots.
The criminal gives you the gift of being able to trace the poison back to its roots and see its origins.
And you resolve those origins relationally, intellectually, politically, ideologically, in your people, so that that poison becomes its own antidote.
That's what justice looks like.
And then the criminal is liberated.
And then the victims, quote unquote, I mean, the whole victimization thing, my God, we're going to go somewhere on that.
But the victimization thing, well, the victims are liberated, too, because the victims don't necessarily, they've been trained to desire the destruction of the criminal, the agony, for the pain to be magnified.
The pain you visited on us should be visited on you in equal or exponentially exaggerated measure.
That's the idea of justice in ridiculously stupid, idiocracies, really, idiot-ocracies.
And that's a business transaction, right?
That's a commercial game, where then you get people building prisons for money, and it's all a transmission of money and power among people with no virtue.
Aping virtue and not being virtuous, that's a terrible thing.
That's a travesty and a tragedy.
Now, actual justice looks like you resolve the poison that produced the behavior, the necessity of the behavior, or the possibility of the behavior,
in what you call the criminal, who's actually the creature who's signaling that your culture is malignantly misformed.
And if you punish the criminal, but you don't resolve the origin of the disease, then you're going to reproduce the disease very naturally, right?
So, you know, I'll give you an example from biology.
I don't know if cancer was common in the ancient world, but in the modern world, it's very common.
And there's a lot of different reasons for that. One of them is that we tend to live longer.
But another is that we've filled the environment with synthetic toxins that our cells and the biological features of our bodies cannot contend with.
And so, you know, as we began to quote research cancer, some of the things we were using to research it were producing it.
The existence of some of the objects and substances that we use to discover the origins of cancer produce cancer in the environment when they're mishandled or propagated inappropriately, right?
Explosively propagated.
Because that's really what cancer is. It's explosive propagation of a cell that has defected from its originary relationships, purposes and forms.
And it eats up everything and kills the organism that is its host.
Now, that's a very complex and amazing topic that we could fruitfully explore together, but that's not my goal today.
What I want to say is that cancer alerted us to the fact that we were misbehaving in the molecular environment in which our own biology originates
and from which our own biology receives its formative instructions.
And so, what we found out was that most of the cancers, if not, well, many of the cancers, if not most of them, if not all of them,
are primarily the result of our own misbehavior in the relational environment of the biologies of Earth, particularly as it pertains to our technologies, our technique.
And so, did that cause us to stop using cancer-causing chemicals?
Sometimes, but mostly not.
Because you can make money from cancer.
Cancer equals more hospitals, more doctors, more medical payments, more banking arrangements,
more transfers of gold and platinum, diamonds and human lives and all kinds of terrifying shit.
So, the humans being completely disoriented in nature and the manifold of our potential for virtues,
which come naturally to us, by the way, under slightly better circumstances, we are naturally virtuous beings.
Unlike what we've been told.
If our interior ache, if the absences inside us are filled with beauty and relation, we don't act greedily.
We don't act violently.
We don't act selfishly.
We don't act stupidly.
We were meant for a better way of being all that we can become.
And we're being deprived of it by a milieu that is subtracting our humanity from us piecemeal at an ever accelerating pace
and selling us back pictures of what we might have become had there actually been an intelligent, communal society for us to participate in meaningfully.
And that makes us also feel guilty for not having established that, but there's every other option on the shelf that you can buy for a dollar.
You can get any kind of defection from virtue or meaningful roles or meaningful missions, adventures, creations.
You can get anything you want all day long for 50 cents on the dollar.
So, the humans are in a trap.
They're actually in a trap-making factory.
And it's not your fault, and it's not my fault.
But the way out isn't to fight the existing system.
The way out is to establish what we have to do is give each other ways of being human
and games to play, adventures to have together, missions to go on together
that are so much fun and so amazing and beautiful that nobody wants to be left out and we just start playing different games together.
Even if that's on a very small scale, everybody wants to play a game that's better than the prisons that were being sold and consigning our children and the dreams of our ancestors to.
Everybody wants that. Everybody.
Everybody wants that.
So, that's part of the terrain ahead.
All right.
So, because I'm somewhat deep into this episode, I want to come back to some of the principles, the pivots.
Okay.
What was the third pivot?
I can't remember.
I can't remember.
It'll come to me though.
Because the third one I was really excited about.
I think that's the one I launched on initially.
We'll see.
So, this absences as presences.
The entirety of desire and the structure of the psyche, the human psyche, what we call the psyche.
And, you know, what do I mean by this word psyche?
It would be really useful to know more about what the Greeks meant.
I suspect they thought of her as a goddess.
But I don't know what her purview was off the top of my head.
And that's, you know, that's on me.
My bad.
But the psyche is a labyrinthine and often self-constricting.
It can be thought of as a being inside us, a sort of an origin of the emotosomatic aspect of our human lives, the mythic aspect.
And it's a labyrinthine kind of hall of mirrors.
And in that hall of mirrors, many things that are absences appear as presences.
And many things that are presences, their characteristics or natures are inverted and reflected back.
And also above this whole thing, there's a kind of a light being cast that you could think of as a gaze in Lacanian terms.
And this gaze isn't exactly a being.
It's a possible being.
It's been compared to the light that illumines the ballerina on the stage, right?
And there's multiple gazes in there.
And there's multiple gazes that can synergize or desynchronize and conflict with each other.
So, you know, when you hear people say something like,
what would people think they're referring to that gaze?
You know, I was recently in a conversation in which a couple were having serious problems.
It was clear that one member of the relationship was not really relating with their partner.
What they were relating with was the history of what they saw as victimizing behavior of other people.
And I could sketch a situation that isn't real in which a hypothetical situation.
And this is commonly true to some degree for every human being.
This is why we use this word psyche.
Yeah, this is the 12 orphans problem.
Okay, so let's say that I have a history of a series of traumatic events in my life by which I feel victimized and traumatized.
And I do, of course, right?
We can all find a line of our personal history along which there's a series of traumas or losses or abuses.
What we might think of as abuses occurred at the, you know, things were done to us against our will and so forth.
And to some degree we become romantically involved with these traumas in such a way that we might prefer them to liberation in the same way that the prisoner prefers the prison to freedom because it's familiar and comforting.
And also there's another feature of the prison that can be very compelling, which is that it largely, although it relieves you of freedom, it also relieves you of responsibility to a large degree.
Responsibility for your own path.
So, I could, for example, fall in love with the linear history of my traumas and prefer that to someone who comes bringing the light of liberation.
I could cleave to that history, which gives me an excuse for having failed to develop, to effloresce, to enact my destiny, to pursue adventure, to take risks, to grow, to learn, to establish, to succeed, to practice.
I could be relieved of all of my guilt of not doing that by clinging to the excuse of, oh, but this person hurt me a long time ago.
And it hurt me so bad I can't do anything.
And the longer one clings to such a perspective, the more compelling it becomes.
So much so that if someone comes along and tries to point you toward a future of liberation, you will turn around and cleave to that role of a victim.
Helpless, thus not responsible for your own actions or inactions.
And it's very comforting because it becomes more familiar over time.
It's very intoxicating because it leads to lethargy, distraction, addiction, all kinds of trouble.
That is really just more pain.
It's the pain of the abject failure to develop, right?
Stasis, stagnation.
And so this is the absence in a way of developmental orientation facing forward, right?
In biblical terms, as Lot was escaping Sodom, apparently his wife, he was told, do not look back.
And this is the concept that can be understood from that parable.
Because his wife, hearing the destruction behind her, wanted to see what it was that was happening and so turned around and was turned to salt.
And that salt means to be deprived of life, right?
To be, to have all of the livingness drawn out of you and to become static like a stone, like a fossil of yourself.
And so this can happen to us when we cling to historical memories of tragedy and wrongdoing and what we think of as abuse, perhaps rightly think of as abuse.
I'm not attempting to change the words we use to think or speak of these matters, but there are better ways to see them.
Because just as I said earlier, you know, one of my friends said, you know, if you're accidentally run over by a train and it fucks you up, but you're still alive on the other side,
it doesn't matter what happened with the train. What matters is what you do going forward.
How do you, how do you reorient? What do you make of the thing that happened to you? That's what matters.
Because if you make something beautiful and empowering of what happened to you, then it becomes beautiful and empowering for you.
By all means, feel free to mourn, feel free to indict, if that really serves you, indict.
Because that's a dangerous one, that indictment.
Understand that you didn't cause this to happen.
You're not, you know, you're not the one necessarily responsible for what, you know, all of the events of your life.
Some things do just happen kind of to us or some things are actually done to us by others.
But make something amazing out of that going forward, right?
Look forward into the possibilities of your developmental future.
And be very cautious about turning around and clinging to your, to the identity of victim.
Or one who was subjected to something.
Again, there are, there are modes where it's useful.
I'm not, this is a principle, not a law.
But be careful because this absence of self,
the absence of the presence of ourselves in our, in our developmental moment,
is the, is, looks extremely similar to the identity of the victim.
Because in a sense, to be victimized is to be deprived of something, right?
To be deprived of our health, wellbeing, work, history, life, family.
To be deprived of our unforgetting, our play, our creativity, our freedom.
Yeah.
So deal gently with your history.
And wisely.
Be cautious about forming up the crystallization of your identity as a victim.
As we grow and learn, most of us eventually discover that a lot of our pain, a lot of our suffering,
is not really caused by external things, but rather how we respond, if we respond.
Or if we, how we react, if we react to them.
Yeah.
The choices that we make, in the aftermath of what we think of as misfortune,
that's the place where we have some freedom to heal and to grow in the aftermath of our misfortunes.
And so we should take those misfortunes to the degree we are able,
and to a degree that is not merely reasonable, but creatively just, creatively good.
We should take those misfortunes.
So if you want to do a quick walk here with the mechanical barnet.
As, to the degree they don't simply obliterate us, right?
We should take them as developmental nourishment.
They are food for our growth.
And I know that misfortunes can be absolutely catastrophic.
I have experienced myself devastating, unexpected misfortune, physically, emotionally, financially,
situationally, devastating misfortunes, inexplicably devastating misfortunes.
But, as we get older and we acquire some wisdom and a kind of helicopter view of the situation, right?
A view from far above.
We will learn to see that in many cases, the trouble wasn't really what happened to us.
The trouble was what we made of what happened to us.
And, at least speaking for myself, I will say that I caused most of the suffering in my life.
Also though, in my own defense, there were situations that were catastrophically bad that I experienced,
where I dealt with them fairly well.
I did okay.
I didn't make, I didn't make them worse by my response or reaction to them.
And in some cases made them better.
And now that I'm, you know, very old.
Now that I'm an old man.
I've gotten better at not, like being less reactive.
And not adding to my misfortune by cleaving to it.
And insisting ragefully on indictments and persecutions and prosecutions and court cases and vengeance and so forth, right?
There's something I was missing there because I got distracted by a man's t-shirt that said,
no, actually I needed another hole in my head.
Right? That absence, right?
Think, I mean, in the center of our eye, there's a kind of an absence that we call the pupil.
And that absence is the possibility of seeing.
So yeah, not all absences are bad.
But when we think about the concept of evil, right?
I'm going to switch gears here.
From being careful about how we think about our history of suffering, being careful about that.
That's a really important thing to remember and to carry with you into your developmental blossoming.
But when we think about evil, there's kind of this question, right?
Is there, has something, has a being, are there like demons?
And is there like a bad man, a bad thing that captures the humans and consumes them and tortures them and eats them?
Because, I mean, this is what the Christian mythos would have us believe.
And this is what the Islamic mythos would have us believe.
That there's an infinitely bad being, right?
Well, there's definitely a dumb being up ahead of me, a person acting ignorantly, just leaning on their horn,
as if somehow that's going to change the fact that the traffic is all locked up.
Which there's no chance of them affecting that by leaning on their horn.
All they will do is magnify the pain and suffering of the people all around them.
And this is the reactivity, right? That person feels victimized, right?
And they're clinging to their identity as a victim.
And they think that by leaning on their horn, there's going to be some justice.
What they're actually doing is just magnifying everybody's suffering, including their own.
There's nothing helpful about leaning on their horn. Nothing.
It's just further misbehavior.
Now, it is kind of troubling that the traffic's all locked up.
Especially if you're in a car.
Because I'm walking much faster than these people who are driving or moving.
But leaning on your horn has...
The only effect that has is to immiserate everyone around you.
And you can see that our cultures teach us to respond this way.
They teach us to become reactive and to see ourselves as victims.
And then to react angrily, critically, judgmentally, ignorantly.
So there's no percentage in that direction.
And those of us who are wise eventually learn this.
Often after many unnecessary bouts of suffering.
But is there an evil being?
Well, the answer is complex because what you make of existence depends on how and why you're approaching it.
The purpose of orientation in cognition and mental behavior that you're adopting.
That causes you to ask a question from which the question is born.
The womb, the circumstances of the womb of your mind that lead to the emergence of the question like a child of your cognition.
So it turns out that the purpose of orientation of your mind produces in your findings its own...
It reproduces its structure in your findings.
So that if you go looking for an evil being,
at the core of all suffering and problems,
you are certain to find one.
If instead you go looking for the origin of trouble,
you probably aren't going to find a being.
Though you might.
Because what you'll find is a history of injuries and losses and deprivations
that lead to reactions that end up with language and tokenization of identity
and representational cognition in humans and so forth.
And then you'll find that once you establish representational cognition in humans,
you don't need a demon to get them to misbehave.
They'll naturally be disoriented.
So disoriented that they'll continually misbehave,
including the misbehavior of supposing the existence of a bad angel.
Now, there are weird angels, but they're weird.
They're not just bad.
And the story of the angels and their relationship with the humans
is a matter for another exploration.
But if there was a first one,
that first one was very interesting, is what I'll say.
Here's the thing, though.
The humans like to talk about, in physics, this idea of the speed of light.
But a close friend of mine often talks about something much weirder,
which is the speed of the departure of light from the four-dimensional manifold
that we refer to as time-space.
And how the departure of that light becomes images,
in the same way that if you close your eyes,
and you look at the backs of your eyelids,
you'll, particularly if you press on them gently,
you'll see these things we call phosphenes.
And in the humans, the departure of the light of origin,
the departure of that originary illumination,
which was not merely intelligence, but transcendent intelligence,
transcendent, beyond mere sentience.
Right?
How could you be beyond sentience?
Well, you could be beyond sentience if you're...
If the manifold of your awareness encompassed all of time and being,
you would be transcendent, right?
You would be transcendentally sensitive, intelligent, aware,
creative, profound, wise, and so forth.
So, where was I going?
Oh, I've transgressed.
Oh, my God.
I've started to speak about things that are forbidden around here.
Why would...
Why did I do that?
Oh, Jesus.
Okay.
So, the departure of that light,
that transcendent, originating,
companioning intelligence system, right?
It's a civilization.
It's not a single being or a small group of beings.
It's the sum of all beings, the polis of all beings, outside of time.
The chorus, the core us, right?
The ch, ur, ch, right?
The real one.
The thing that word is a representation of,
that humans have been too timid to imagine for thousands of years after its disappearance,
and have been inventing every kind of ridiculous, sickening representation of,
and transmitting that around and contagiously recolonizing each other
with these tokenized representations and bullshit,
and death masquerading as salvation and shit.
What you'll find is that the history of evil in the humans,
there's no principle in nature that demands the existence of evil.
This Moloch thing that you hear about among the Game B people,
and the Meaning Crisis people, and so forth,
I would suggest that it's useful to think of Moloch not as a being,
but as a network of absences that easily misunderstood look,
take on the appearance of a being with an intent to consume and torment and destroy.
But you don't, the problem is, it's a bridge too far.
You don't need a bad being to have all that.
All you need, the Occam's razor version of this situation,
all you need is the absence of the memory of our origin.
That's all you need, and the people will misbehave out of terror,
isolation, deprivation, fear of death, fear of poverty, fear of disease, fear of suffering.
The people will naturally misbehave.
Once you break them into little groups,
once they understand themselves as individuals,
they will naturally misbehave because that which binds them together is missing.
And the absence of that communal spirit, intent, memory, orientation, motivation, purpose, adventure,
the absence of that will become Moloch.
Absences appear as presences.
Some of you have had the experience of falling more and more in love with someone,
the more unavailable they become.
Many of my friends have come to me with suffering around this issue.
But I adored him, but we had amazing sex.
Why did he just not even care about me?
She was the most beautiful thing I've ever seen.
We loved each other. Why did she go away?
She kept going away.
She ran away from me. Why, why, why?
Why didn't, why didn't the love not continue?
And the further she ran away from me, the more I adored her, right?
I've had people say to me that they love me when they don't know me at all.
I have felt love for people I know nothing about.
Their absence is adorable.
The humans are compelled by absence because it's a magnet for all of the fantastical and mythical aspects of our psychic understructure.
And you can just invent a vision of someone in your romantic psyche and fall madly, hopelessly in love with that vision.
It's very different from actually loving a human being or even yourself.
You can have the same kind of fantasy megalomaniacal adoration of the absence of yourself, right?
This is what tyrants do.
I can think of a guy whose name starts with T.
I can think of a guy whose name starts with H.
You name, pick a letter, right?
We can fall, oh God, who is the Greek, the Greek man who falls in love with his reflection in the water and then...
See, by asking you this question, it's better than if I tell you the name, right?
Sometimes not saying the thing and just hinting at it, it causes your mind to form the thing.
And that's better than if I tell you, who is the man who looks in the water?
I know his name.
It begins with an N.
And there's a flower named after him.
And there's also a psycho-emotional disorder named after him.
Who is the man who looks in the water and falls in love with his own reflection and is adored by a goddess
and then has other misadventures.
What are those misadventures?
You tell me.
Tell me what they are.
Put them in the comments.
Once we are broken apart from each other and there's no integrity to the polis, to the communal body of us,
we are going to have a lot of problems.
And anything that authentically restores that communality is going to be an antidote and a medicine to those problems.
Even if it's on a very small scale of three to five people who just decide one day, you know what?
We are going to play this human game together for each other and the history and future of intelligence,
liberation, virtue, beauty, truth, justice, hope, wonder, awe, anamnesis, recognition, memory,
mimosini, Hypatia, Medea, Hecate, Joan of the Arch.
May your ways and dreams be beautiful and healing and profound.
We will learn to play again together and to remember and to understand and to see.
To remove the bindings that have so long trapped our ancestors and their dreams and our children
and our own bodies in these prisons that are as unnecessary as they are deconstructable.
Thank you for joining me.
I look forward to learning again together very soon.
Bye-bye for now.
