spreading the knowledge and teaching is a purpose it's a goal yes it's life purple yes yes yes i
understand it's uh not dissimilar for me although i'm not as engaged in teaching as you are but in
writing and you know um lecturing a bit and stuff like this right um i understand it it is
it is there's something it seems that we come to human form to pursue yes exactly we have to pursue
something yeah and this is an inner call inner call it's a how you say invocation yeah is that the right
word yeah it means to uh to bring into the the being of the self and to uh fertilize and nurture
and then to express i guess yeah and i have seen you have sent me very interesting things but i
haven't found the time to go through them believe me it's sometimes okay sometime i will yeah yeah
it's okay i have no expectation of that um tell me something about i have i have many many questions
so we won't we won't there won't be any problem with running out of material um tell me something
about how you became interested in tell me something about the history of your interest in topics related
to the soul and to ancient
well um as i told you uh my first uh uh shocking shocking let's say exciting how you say thrilling
experience was the one that i had with my father when i was 16 so i i i have always been interested in
finding out what happens after death because it was so real for me and then i heard um my my very close
friend uh who became the godmother of my first son and we've known each other since we were 15
and she lost her husband when she was 46 and he was 53 and he visited let us say here in his in her sleep
a shorter dream not that extensive you know as i had with my father but he used the same expression
that i have been given permission to visit you and this is what exactly my father had said that
i have been given permission for three months to visit you but most mortals when they die
have permission for 40 days and these are in our tradition you know when a person dies and then after 40 days we
have this how you say mem it's like memorial how you say that to to how do you uh to to bring the the
memory to to to to to retain the memory uh of this person how you say this in in english i don't know
it's a to recollect or to reminisce or uh reminisce yes no i know i think i know the word you know the
remembrance day you have remembrance day it's like that uh-huh it's a remembrance day after 40 days and
i think this has to do um i have noticed that uh many things are decoded to me when i relate them to
the number of the corresponding orphic imna because the orphic imns we have are the most ancient
passages scripts that we have and it's like our own uh uh holy scripts like uh you know um the bible
it's like our bible and they say there the the number so uh when you go to number 40
14 14. imna is the number that corresponds to the imna of dimeter
dedicated to dimeter and dimeter and dionysius and dimeter are the leaders of the elefsinian mysteries i
cannot say elefsinian it's it's like distorting you know the word i don't like and it's elefsinian yes
so the elefsinian missus so dimeter is mother earth mother earth i have uh explained this the
those house meter means giving like a mother the meter the dos house meter this the meter or the
meteor is the same thing you see you let you say dimeter the meteor it's exactly that it's exactly that the
mother and either you we say the meteor or dimitra it's the the same but the the etymology comes from
the meteor like you have you say dimeter there all e the e and we have the corresponding letter is eta
which is like the age but it is pronounced e it is the suffix of the female names as i told you
like eleni helen either we have eta this no or alpha yeah that's alphabet you see alphabet alpha
right so um so this means that uh because uh dimeter gives us uh plutarch says that the elements
the elements that constitute our body
and uh and uh she takes them back when we die it's like it's alone yeah it's a lot like alone yeah
this is exactly what plutarch says we have borrowed this yeah we have to return them you know to
dimeter and that's why the adjective dimitrios as an adjective dimitrios it means dedicated to dimeter
was another name for the dead the dead person the deceased the materials yes
belong to dimeter going back to mother earth you know down in the underground
uh dimitrios so dimitra has absolutely to do with the mystery of death actually the elepsinian mysteries
are the mysteries of death and the leading uh deity is dimeter and dionysus because dimeter brings you down
here and expects you up over there and dionysus liberates you from the bonds
and he is worshiped as lycius lycius dionysus and lycius means liberator
leo is untied and binding and this is leo
leo so it's like loosening up the bots and you knew you are free to go uh so the first thing was
that that uh um i was always in i have been always interested in the mystery of death because of this
this experience uh and it was not only that uh when i was 22 22 22 yes and
the wife of my mother's brother died my mother had one sister and two brothers
one of the brothers the first child in the family was married to a belgian woman belgian
and he had no children with her but because she had three children you know and they got married
and and she died when she was 56
out of heart attack because she had lost her beloved daughter when the daughter was 25 in a car accident
the day before their holiday to greece because they came yeah they used to come every year here
for summer holidays she was a very kind woman and this girl
that was two years old when my uncle married this lady it was like the his daughter you know he
didn't want to have more children because he had three but actually he brought her up you know and
and he was a really a very bad shock disaster in the in the family and five years later
this sound of mine the belgian woman died because of sorrow because she developed heart problems
she died at the end of july on on august 15th we have a very important uh holiday here uh dedicated to the
death of virgin mary so in our christianity tradition christian tradition
we celebrate the the death we say the sleep of virgin mary
august 15th it was about
20 or something less than 20 days that my uncle my my aunt had died and my uncle because she died here
in greece in greece in crete on the island of crete because my mother originates from there this mother
land and they used to go there every year and he had my uncle had to carry here
to belgium you know all the dead body and all this stuff and then he came here and then he had to go back
there again for the 40 days and to prepare the grave and all this stuff and i didn't know that
that day he was planning to go by car from here and he had to waken up very early in the morning said
five o'clock in the morning before before the sun rose because it's really hot here in greece and he
wanted to travel most of the way not with the heat of the day yes i had not been told that he would
leave that day for the for that period of time he used to live with us after his wife died for a few
months i had lost my father too so my mother was you know widow and he had lost here we he stayed with
us for about two three months but i didn't know i was 22 there and while i was sleeping in my sleep i was
like that sleeping i felt something blowing and um it was cool a cooling experience that i was i thought
that there was a wind that's blue and made me feel cold and i said oh my gosh this is why it's cold
because the 15th of august it's really hot here right and five o'clock in the morning a few minutes
about 10 minutes before five o'clock in the morning that my father had told me when i was 16
that he had the permission to be in contact with me until five o'clock in in the morning at nine you
know because when the sun rises he cannot come in contact this is what he had told me right
i i tell you my experiences the most important ones and and it was and i turned the other side because i
i felt cold here and then i heard her voice in my sleep and with this belgian accent
she had she asked me in greek because my uncle had told her if you don't speak greek i'm not gonna
marry you you should and she was very much in love you know with you okay i'm gonna learn greek whatever
because i want you in my life yeah four languages very frequently and then the greek
was difficult for her because we have three genders you know masculine feminine and neutral
and we conjugate verbs we conjugate nouns everything so uh she used uh you know only one person in the verbs
you know but and she used the pronouns in front i you he and he it was really funny for us to hear that
but we can understand here and she told me with that accent and the words and that that i knew that she
would was here and she told me a kid this is my little kid hey kid get up and tell george to be careful
while driving it's amazing i said what is this so i felt that i got up but it was not really me it was
my ethereal body wow and i came right here this is my kitchen this is the the door of my kitchen you see
yes and this is the the table that i'm sitting now you see and i saw my mother and my uncle sitting
here on the table my uncle was sitting over there my mother over there you see like that
and they were talking with each other i was trying to talk to her to to to my mother to tell her that
that aunt uh i guess i had come to my dream to to to to warn him to be careful
but they didn't see me i said are you serious can you see me i'm talking to you no nothing
i said okay they can't see me i go back to sleep and then as soon as i returned this was my ethereal body
i felt even colder cooler this stream of air that was blowing on my ear saying that with very strict
voice in a strict voice in a strict voice saying you didn't get up as a whole your whole body should get up
and then after that and she said i don't have permission later than five and you know
it was really amazing and then when i got up and i stood there at the the door of the of our kitchen
here of our dining room i was trembling because when i have this experience with the contact of
the after world you know with souls from after world because it was twice in my life that i had this
with my father and this side of mine six years later okay at 16 and 22 and i was trembling i i could not
speak clearly like the way that i happened to me when i had this contact with my father
and then my uncle turned towards me and he asked my mother what's going on with here what is this and i
work and i i wanted to say uh on the aunt came and we use the verb first game we say game the end you
know this is the way you know this is the way you use them means game and i i was like like that i could
not pronounce it clearly and my mother knew because he had she had seen this before and she said who came
and then i tried to spell you know to with difficulty to pronounce the name angela and said angela yes
and then i calmed down a little bit and then 10 minutes later i was able to to say the whole sentence
and my uncle was so surprised i mean um and my my mom said okay i know this i have seen this before
so don't worry it will pass you know so these two experiences and this explains to me that after that
i started the greek philosophy because i was really interested in this and i i can very easily
understand why this was a cooling stream of air let us say say how you say stream of air not how you say
a breeze a breeze a breeze breeze yes a breeze because in greek we have the the word
uh cool uh cold or uh the cool weather the cool uh we call it psychron
psychron the refrigerator is called psigio because the verb is psycho psycho means cool down
make something cold and from that derives the word see he which is the sword oh
you see so this he is closely related to psycho because when you blow something
you cool it down when something is hot like the coffee you do
so this uh air that comes in from the blowing the the flow of the air pulls something down
and the spirit is airy in nature then the spirit's nature is of there you know
and that's why the the elves the elves in greek are called aerika of the air
aerika is of the air because they are spirits
you see
so if you go to the words the words themselves reveal the cosmic truth this is the most amazing
realization that i have in life and although i studied chemical engineering and as a child i loved both
mathematics chemistry and ancient greek
actually i adored that simply but i found mathematics and the science in general more exciting
more exciting so i wanted to to study this and life has led this to me it was an inner
inner guidance let's say that leads you to the path of life you know something inside you that tells you
what you should follow yes and and this inclination let us say of the of the soul
yes absolutely to do with the guardian spirit because it's like something uh in invoking to you invoking
to you and what you should do you really feel like i i should do this and you are you love it and you
you either it is um a path in your professional path and your profession or uh or feeling uh something
for another person and they feel the need to be with him or here and you think that it is you it's not you
yeah yeah it's something else that yeah it's like implanting something in you it is you could do that
because this is the plan of your life that you cannot avoid you know it is a little bit i mean there are
different ways of thinking about it um but it's kind of like i think we become confused because we think
oh my personal identity is me that's you know i am darren right that's who i am but in fact it seems
like perhaps there are different ways of thinking about it but perhaps it is more like uh darren is a
glove and and a hand from up there is inside the glove and darren is he's kind of deaf he can't hear
the the the the speaking of the hand inside him right he's kind of deaf so he's like bumbling around
in the world right and the glove it it sort of guides him a little bit when it can i love the
simile i like it i love the simile with the glove
and then the other thing which i think i mentioned in our previous conversation that i think is very
compelling at least uh as a as a sort of a toy or a lens to see through is that um i think we're very
very confused about death as i as i am growing older now and i'm coming closer to death and i have been
in love with death my entire life right since i was a little kid fascinated and terrified by death
right so always chasing the literature of death edgar allen poe when i was a small kid i was reading
him i'm actually practicing one of his poems right now um and then uh just so curious about
and also terrified of death and finding a dead animal or a corpse or something like this of a
creature very compelling to me always seemed kind of magically powerful profound the the dead bird or the
dead creature watching it decay over time when i had the chance to um just fascinated with all of these
things but uh you know we always tend to think that our the sort of our inspiration and what makes us
unique as human beings it comes from before right i get it from before i was born my ancestors my parents
my soul getting incarnated we think of it it comes from before right yeah but uh darian uh specifically
on this plato has written in the republic i don't know if you know the myth of uh ear have you heard of
that not in the same i've read the republic is ten books ten books and all together is the republic
we call it the republic but actually um the name in greek is politia which means a big city
it's like a divine city what happens in the divine community now we have this word in english
universe city but we don't think like that we don't think universe we think universe city
is a school right we don't think that maybe the universe is a city but please continue yeah and
the republic uh another name of the republic because plato gives a name and another name we say or you can
say that about so for example uh kratilus that i had written is kratilus or about uh the correctness of the
names this is the the whole title we say republic or about justice yeah
uh we say dicao which is just but and the chaosini which is justice and it's like about what is just
this is the meaning the the core meaning of the analysis so they he analyzes what is just
because justice is a virtue which um has as i would say prerequisites prerequisite there should be
three other virtues before you um achieve well before you um
but you can say that you really um you are really just there are um three um
um yes um prerequisites this is a good way to say the the requirements three requirements that you have to
embody to to
not pursue to
attain not attain how you say when you you you are able to achieve a goal how else you say achieve a
goal or well you can say i mean what i was thinking was embody them to enact them to become
okay to enact them yeah okay to make it to to
feel it in practice right so there are three three uh virtues the one has to do with the mind
and the the virtue of the mind of this center we have three centers the the the logic the
the the most which is the heart here the most and we have the desire the center of the desire down here
we have three in one okay we're three in one other things i i
think and i have in my mind other things i
uh i want with my whole heart and other things i do in practice or i desire as a body you know
another thing is a feeling another thing is a body
you know and i i for example uh i want um i'm gladness and i want to eat this is a desire
it's not a feeling yeah you understand what is how you smoke when i'm afraid the fear is a feeling
yeah but the gluttony is a desire it's another thing yeah some things are felt with the heart
some others are desires of the body so you have this center that is located down here in the
the tummy section like that yeah yeah yeah and under the diaphragm okay under that the whole thing
your body and the heart is another center and the mind here is another center so we have different
virtues for these centers these these in uh the um iliad and the odyssey they are referred to as the
hypostases the thumos the crater uh the i cannot recall all of them they are called hypostases um which
it they're called hypostasis
lesser like a lesser hypo lesser stasis form lesser people
hypostasis yeah hypostasis uh okay thumos
hypostasis trying to remember the hypostasis humos is one of them creator or or wait no cardia
cardia is the heart um ator is the stomach e-t-o-r right they're called hypostasis
and e-t-o-r yes yeah and and in in the iliad uh it is not like there are persons
it's not like there are persons by the way we have a chat here so i'm just going to write this word
hypostasis so that we don't have to yeah hypo
hypostasis yes you know what we call hypostasis in in philosophy
hypo means under yeah lesser right in medicine right hyper yes actually means actually hypo means
under uh this is the right uh meaning uh lesser is uh is uh uh micro or legal is
oligo oligo this is lesser i see uh but uh the hippo is other uh like uh so stasis means
uh level that you stand on so hypostasis is a level under under another level yes we have we have
the the universal god the the cosmic mind let us say we call it n which means one and the hypostasis
are under that and we have the gods here is the mind that there is the soul and this and these are
called the hypostasis but in odyssey i have never heard of this i don't know what they have translated
as that i understand i learned this from um a very peculiar book uh one of my favorite books it's by a
man named julian james and it's called um the origins of consciousness in the breakdown of the bicameral
mind this is where i first learned of the hypostasis but one of the things that jane says in his analysis
of the iliad and the odyssey he was a scholar i don't think he spoke greek but what he says
is what he's trying to say his theory is that over the course of the composition of the iliad and the
odyssey which was a long period of time not all at once was it written over the course the meaning of
the self it changes and in the beginning there's no personal self there's no such thing as i me
mine doesn't exist what happens is you have the hypostasis and the gods put things into them it
puts fear into someone or it puts anger into someone or they put uh desire or jealousy or
oh even obedience right or they put memory into as if the human is filled with jars
right containers into which the gods put things and then later it begin there begins to appear this
idea of a set of like a self a person a separate self now this is one theory i'm not saying it's true
it's a perspective right but so that i don't lose my place i just wanted to circle back to what i was
saying about we think that everything we are comes from before and then you began to talk about justice
and the three the three virtues the three requisites the three requirements right you must develop
requirements so we have the virtue of this which is called phronesis and phronesis is
the etymology of phronesis is phora which is the way of direction
yes yes and and the noises noises means the power of the mind yeah so i i follow the direction of my
mind this is phronesis and the goddess of phronesis is athena the goddess of wisdom
athena oh athena yeah yeah okay yes so this word phronesis it's where we get the word phrenes
the um the hypostasis phrenes f-p-h-r-e-n-e-s which is in the english word schizophrenia it means broken
frees yeah greens are confused yeah tear yeah tear yeah right um incoherent frames yeah friends uh so
phronesis is the power of mind that controls uh the illogical part of the soul not the logical not the
reason they're not the the the the the the the feelings and the desires are have no logic you
know have no are not reasonable uh so we say francis and the the virtue of the heart here of timos
timos is the center of the feelings all the feelings together are called timos the sentimental
state let us say it's called timos and uh and you see the word mythos has the same exact letters
with the word timos because when you hear the mythos which is the story of mythology okay this is the
mythos it's like uh putting putting um uh a stamp on your timos and you don't know yet you understand
what i say yeah yeah the imprints the structure imprints the structure on your timos because when
you hear this and they use the cyclops for example which is the monster with one eye you say oh and then
when i tell you that this monster is not a real inside you is the ego because you see only one person
you and you don't care about the others yeah yeah so you have to blind it you don't kill the ego
but you don't focus on the ego right right right you um
and so that you select you select a better uh way of seeing and a better way of valuing you have
the self over here it's okay you don't attack it you don't have to get rid of it you just don't follow
it right it don't let it drive the car essentially yeah yeah yeah okay just so i don't lose my thought
and i mentioned this before and we'll continue with the thread that you're introducing here because i
think i know what you're saying which is i think what you are saying is the origin of our character
it is the rebalancing of these virtues oriented by justice
when you have these virtues the three virtues in the corresponding center of the soul
phronesis for that the the wise way of thinking let us say that follows the orders of the mind and the
direction of the mind this is what it follows and then the the verse you hear is bravery
the here is bravery and and the the verse you down here is prudence means um well um i would say
moderation yes so when when you do everything in moderation then you satisfy this desire
but up to a point right never do it yeah this is the virtue here and we call it sophrosini
because sozo means save the phronesis so frozen is the one that saves the phronesis because if you
cannot control the desire this goes
so the the direction of the mind is not followed yes these three things they form
like three circles yes are one thing and so if one of them is distorted and becomes very big these other
two become unstable exactly it's as if they're all yeah they they are dependent on each other's coherent
form exactly they should be coherent but the basis is the most important thing because if you cannot control
all the desires forget evolution yes forget it so here you have three in one because
because uh we say the unity the unification of all the centers that whatever i desire i want and i think
so uh my my mind tells my desire not eat more than one sweet and the desire said okay i don't want to eat
more than one sweet anyway so that i i i i try to push myself not to do it because my mind says that this is
correct and this is what plato says is when the desire accepts uh without complaining the orders of the mind
then you have sophrosini
yes because if the desire is leading it pollutes the mind the mind will not be coherent
exactly but the desire it will keep um pushing up into consciousness into awareness you will keep
pushing up what it wants what is desired and also it's very difficult like uh it's not self-restrained
no it's not self-restraining you know and it's prudence it's another thing yeah it's the governance
of desire by something higher or even less less and the obedience of desire the obedience without
trying to obey and push yourself to obey but you feel like that okay you don't you don't feel that we
are deprived if you don't eat more than one sweet you don't feel like that you know you don't feel
yeah that that you want to eat more and more uh but you have to stop because you're gonna get fat
and you push yourself not to overdo it you know you don't want to overdo it you don't care okay but
this is the thing this is the thing where um so like i mean i'm listening to you okay yeah yeah
okay
okay
well so in this matter
if it is common for one okay so one of the problems is for us moderns
our cultures if we i mean we don't have i don't even know if what we have in the united states
should be called a culture it's not really a culture they just consume right it's it's not
culture it's we don't have culture here in greece you have culture right we don't have that so here
here everything is oriented to inflame your desire and there you are to make it overcome your thought
your sensibility your intelligence your awareness you want to become drunk
with consumer society yeah consumer society nothing else if you go to a restaurant here
they'll feed you enough food for three people if you're one person they'll give you so much food
that you think you have to eat all this food right you can get you get my burrito it weighs like four
pounds right so when you go out to eat here unless it's a very expensive place in which
case portions are smaller they give you massive quantities of food right and what i'm getting at is
is it is difficult to bring the desire under the guidance and obedience of
the the intellect if you will the mind
the intellect yes exactly it's difficult to bring it under um under the guidance if historically over
time it's always just all over the place right starving too full no sleep sleep for three days
drunk you know having sex all day whatever you know whatever smoking cigarettes whatever you're doing
right if you're doing this constantly and it's all incoherent over time it's very difficult to bring the
desire under uh the aegis right of the intellect but yeah so it's it just it it becomes like a gravity
well it just sucks you toward gluttony and sort of misbehavior but if you
you is similarly if over time you have the experience of you do something
that settles the desire into its natural feature right then when you are presented with a bunch of food
you naturally have prudence because over time right this has been this is what aristotle says aristotle
uses this ex excellent etymology for the word ethos which means morality
yeah it comes from the word ethos ethos comes from the word ethos which means habit
you see when you are habitually do this over and over again you get used to that and you don't ask for
more because you don't need more because you are used to a certain way of behavior and this ethos which is
the habit uh it's like solidifying your ethos inside you you understand what i mean
because if you do this repeatedly all the time it comes natural to you yes and you don't ask for more
yes but the society here leads you to the excess take more and more when i first visited orlando actually
once i visited orlando not first once i visit orlando on a conference we went with my husband and
we visited the disneyland of course there and i was really
and i was not overly surprised to see a label with big letters a sign saying liberate your appetite
and everybody there was huge i mean and i used to tell my husband okay take pictures with this fat
ladies there to to to to make me feel well when i get some weight
it's amazing everybody was most of the people were obese you know it's very tragic because um
part of why it is so dangerous to live in america there are many reasons but it it is because we are
deprived we are deprived of things that feed our soul so we are deprived of intimate relations socially
communally we are deprived of tradition we are deprived of sleep we are deprived of healthy food we are fed
poisons most of our food contains insecticides that are lethal right it's just we are deprived deprived
deprived deprived deprived and that way whenever that you know anything that looks shiny or that that we
feel might answer the the the vacuum inside us right the the aching loss of our human experience in
nature we just go for it and you know consume right it's really tragic and dangerous yeah um you know
modernity is a kind of a curse really right it's a kind of a not not having the experience of being
human while you yet are human and i have never been to greece but i have met people from greece and i've
spoken with them and i can feel i can feel the spirit of actual culture actual tradition the intelligence
in the ancient language and how it's still alive in the people today i feel this heartbeat of nourishing
insight from your father you have a greek origin yeah yeah uh what is it this are some genes inside you
yeah yeah the memory really because syracuse syracuse right was sicily syracuse back in the day
syracuse yes yeah yeah yeah and i have never been to sicily and i want to go there this uh these are one
of my uh most important future goals to to to visit because uh there are ancient um uh temples so well there
is uh uh um not restored um um they left this without destroying them with without destroying them
because christianity destroyed everything here right right yeah but in sicily there are they preserved
this for so many years and the mythology about sicily is so interested interesting that uh i want to
organize a a holiday there and a trip with whoever wants to to come with me and a whole not a holiday
uh an excursion let's say for four four to five six days maybe sicily and i want to to to tell them
to to decipher decoding the mythology that has to do with sicily and with all the southern italy which
was the and the center of the pythagoreans was there the southern italy you see pythagoras had here his
uh academy let us say there his school there and so we call it the magna grecia the big the big
greece ah i see yeah this is what they call it and in greek we say the great greece the great greece
is uh the southern italy and of course they were greek i mean and uh they were um and how you say well
when when i say i know so many words and uh i keep forgetting the words although i know them
when you go from one place from a metropolis and you build another city to another place how you say
the ur ur um let me find this it's amazing and i'll i'll tell you take your time
and i'll pick here
colony oh yeah yeah colony yeah there are many colonies from metropolitan cities in greece
and they moved to italy and they have many many of those their colonies of greek cities
how did you i want to chase some questions before i do i'm going to circle back to the one thing i was
saying so yeah obviously uh the rebalancing brings us into birth the necessity of rebalancing which you can
say different ways yes they well i'll tell you what the what plato says in the republic in the last book
of the republic in the republic he analyzes the virtues that we should have in order to
manage to have justice inside us which is the upper the top of the virtues that requires
the the existing of the others if you don't have the others i so when you have the three virtues then
you have justice inside you okay um but and he calls it the republic uh politia which means the big city
the big city big city is politia policies uh the city in greek and politics the big city okay and it calls
it politia because he says um the state of our being in of our feelings and the way we are inside as as a
regent rhono how live is our san san san san san san san san san san san san san san san san san san san san san san san san san san san san san san san san san san san san san san san san san san san san
expresses the way we are inside. So we have the governance that we are worth, we deserve.
We deserve this government because it reflects, the government reflects, the political system
reflects our inner system. You know what I mean? So when the citizens are virtuous,
they can expect a government that is virtuous. So when I use you because you are a friend
of mine or, you know, I know you and although I am not fair, I don't, I am moral, you justify
my actions. Because you can influence the law and the, you know, you pass the law that you
want to pass, then you like Joe Biden did for his son, you know, he forgives everything.
So whoever has the power, the Greek said that the power proves the person you really are.
So when you are given power, then you prove what you really are.
Yes, yes, this is, this is familiar to me because in my experience, which I don't claim to understand
what happened. I only remember what, what I experienced, right? And what, what happened
in my mind and in my heart. And my heart was so excited all the time, like so excited that
I thought I won't survive. I'm so, I'm so, uh, enthusiast, enthusiast, right? Yeah. I felt
enthusiast, like nothing I ever imagined possible for a human being much more than anything in
any time. We call it enthusiasm. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I remember, but one of the things
that happened was the intelligence that was teaching me, it's one day it asked me, what
do you want? I knew I had power. Essentially I have an angel is my friend. I can know the
minds of other beings. I can see their histories. I can see where they will die. I can partly
understand languages that I've never heard. I can listen to people talking and I can
really, what they are talking about, right? With, with this lasted for nine, this last
for nine months, nine months. Yeah. It didn't continue. Then it faded. It, it, it rose up
in intensity and then it slowly began to fade. And by the end of about nine months, it was
not common that I could, that the other mind was with me. I still have gifts from that experience.
I still have gifts years, 10 years later. Right. I still have some gifts, but yeah, about
nine months. And then there was a second time, which is a different story than the second
time. I rejected it. I did not trust it. Why? Well, the first time it warned me, it said
something may come to you. Seems very much like me. You must check it carefully. It may not
be like me. You won't know. You have not seen my face is sort of what it said. You have not
seen my face. So if something else comes, you won't know. And you should be careful. There
are, there are those among our kind, so to speak, who are not as gentle and not as trustworthy.
Here is the thing, though. The first time, this being, it had love. It had love. It loved
the humans and all beings. And also, it had a sense of humor, but the kind of the humor
was divine humor, not like, not like low, not low humor. Right. Playful, sort of divine humor.
Beautiful humor. Right. But the second thing, when it came, it did not love. And it did not
seem to have humor. And it was very much oriented to trying to inflate my ego. Right. Which I
eventually, it took a little while. It took a few months. And then I realized something is
wrong. This is not good. This is dangerous. I must push it away. But what I was going to
say is that in the first case, and I think this is not uncommon. Eventually, it basically
asked me, you know, what do you want? You can have anything. You have our attention. You
know, what will please you? And essentially, what I said was, now, I asked other people what
they would answer. And the best, the best answer I've heard came from a woman who I asked.
And she said, I think it's very wise. She said, Can we preserve that question while we
get to know each other better? And I was like, that's a truly good answer to know the spirit.
Yes, yes. Let's preserve the question, right? This is my desire. What I really want.
Yeah, that's a brilliant answer. What I said was, I want to understand. I was thinking
particularly of the story in Genesis, where Adam and Eve, they go to the Eve goes to the tree
and she meets the serpent. You know, because this seems to be in biblical story land. This
is where the problems begin, right? So I wanted to know what happened there and was there an
antidote? And I also wanted to know, like, what got broken in our people? How did it break
down? Why are we so endowed with the beauty of our divine origin and at the same time so
crippled and so confused as a species, right? Like we are a terrible thing as a species. At the
group level, humans are a nightmare, right? You definitely wouldn't want to let them near
anything important or give them power, right? It would be terrifying outcome if they were
given power. Yeah. So I asked, you know, help me understand what happened to my people and
is there medicine? Is there medicine? Is there something that we could do that would heal?
Yeah. What happened to human nature and it's so confused. And although it has a divine origin,
it's still, we are still confused and how we, in our body nature, this is what you mean.
Yeah. Particularly at the group level, right? You can meet a beautiful individual human being
who you can trust and they are an amazing being. But at the group level, our species is a nightmare,
right? And most of our... In a group level, you see. Yeah. We can't make a good polis.
Our polis is terrible, mostly, right? So I asked about this and it was, it was shocked. It said,
no, no, you don't understand. I'll give you power. You can have money. You can go to the, you know,
go to the casino and win all day long. Just stack up money in your bank. You can have women. You can
have island kingdoms, right? I think you don't understand. You can have anything. And I was like,
no, no, I want to understand what happened to my people because my heart, all my life, my heart
wants justice for the people of the earth, you know, aches, it aches for restoration
of the people's spirit, right? Now, I don't think, so what I'm trying to say is I think when you said,
you know, if you want to know who someone is, give them power, right? And then see what they will ask
for, right? This is what I said. Yeah. Yeah. Right. It was giving me power. It was like, no,
no, no, don't misunderstand me. I'll give you power. You want power? And I was like, no, no,
I want medicine. Do we have medicine? Yes. Medicine for society. Yes. Yes. For the network of human
mind. Globally to human mind, to humankind. Yes. Yes. That's kind of medicine to bring justice.
Yes. Justice as in restoration of the beauty of origin in the people, right? But particularly
in the systems that govern them, because these systems, they are not human. They are not divine.
They are something very weird. They're like the absence of divinity mixed with the absence of
humanity. And then that thing presents as if it's somehow how like good or charismatic or it's very
strange to observe this. And it, you know, think of the dreams of every mother. Think of the collective
dreaming of the mothers of the beings on earth, what they hoped for, what they strove for, what they
suffered for, what they made sacrifices for, for the sake of the possibility of their children
having a beautiful existence. They gave everything. They, they suffered, they were born, they died,
they gave birth. They, they gave everything in the hope of their children, of the, of the restoration
of the beauty of the world for their children. Right. And the fathers too, right. They fought and died
and served terrible Kings and, you know, whatever, terrible masters and were corrupted and fought
against that. And right. So like the entire history of the, of the world that we have here, there's a,
there's a, there's like a spirit of beautiful hope. And then there's something that's just crushing
it. Right. Yeah. Destroying it. So there must be some kind of answer away. There must be a path.
And also, you know, you say, um, the, the, the, the, the earth, right? She is a being. She has friends.
They don't want to see her destroyed. Yeah. They don't want to see, they're not happy with what
the humans do. If the humans are just tearing things apart and like selling her organs on the
black market for guns and you know what drugs or whatever, right. They're not happy. And maybe the
humans can get away with that for a little period of time because for Dimitra time is very long,
right. 10,000 years for her. It's like an eye blink. So the humans, we can misbehave for a thousand
years and get away with it and think like, Oh yeah, we can just keep misbehaving like crazy.
No one's going to stop us. Right. But eventually the gods, so to speak, they will not,
they will not let that stand, right. The sun, if the sun should just change one, one millionth,
right. If it should just have a burp, right. It will obliterate technology. There'll be no technology.
Listen, Plato mentions this in his book called Politicos, The Politician.
And it's a short book. It's not one of the longest. And says about this situation of corruption and all
this is that the worsening and worsening of the situation. And when it comes to a great extent,
this corruption, then the earth reverses the poles like that. And he calls this
recycling. Anakiklisis. Anakiklisis. Anak means re, re, means again. Kiklos, cycle. Cycle is kiklos.
Actually, it's from the word kiklos and the y is the y of kiklos. We have three e, three e's.
The eta, the one I told you. Yeah. The iota, the i. Yeah. And the y, like that.
The y. Oh, yeah, yeah. All of them are pronounced e. Yeah, I have my little chart.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Well, this is actually, this is not Greek. It is more this. Ah, yes, yes. This is Greek.
Yes. Right, right, right, right, right. And also he. Yeah. And also, yes.
They are there. Yes, I just make to help me, to help me remember.
Yes, yes. So, and the cycle, anakiklisis, kiklisis, is the, the way that it's like a cycle and it comes
back to an early point that it used to be. So, like recycling. So, the earth goes
like that. It reverses the poles and we have a global destruction and only five percent
of the life forms can survive. And it also called this situation
athanasia, which is immortality, episkevasti, restorable, restorable immortality.
This is how he calls this. So, I have my own theory of that, if you want me to, to, to tell you.
Yes, yes, let's hear.
I, I, I thought of this because of the etymology. I try to find the etymology of the word magnetis
because the earth has an axis like that and the magnetic axis like that.
Yes. These are the, is the natural axis and this is the magnetic axis. Okay.
Yes. Magnetic. Okay.
This is not stable. So, the, this, this angle here changes and goes like that
okay. And when this is the 90 degree and when it goes here, which is how you call this angle
in English, we call it amvlia. Well, more than 90 degrees. Then it goes,
you see the, the whole, the, the earth stays like that. This is the axis and this is the earth. But
when the, the magnetic axis reaches a point more than 90 degrees, then it goes. Okay. And this
changes everything. Everything is destroyed. And now to my mind,
I take the word magnetismos, magnet, magnetism, magnetismos. And it has the word Magnum, which means big.
the very big. And this is from megas, mega, you know, mega. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
Megas means the very big. Megas. And news, which is the mind. So Magnum is megas,
news, the big mind. So the magnetism I have is an attraction to the big mind,
the cosmic mind. This is an attraction of my soul because it's easy. Those said that we belong to the
the generation, the gene of the, the iron. We have three, three generations, three genes, the iron,
the silver, the gold, the gold, the gold belongs to the gods. They are considered to be the gold gene
generated. And the demons between the humans and the gods is the, the silver. Wow. Okay.
Yeah. And the humans are the iron. Why he gave these characterizations using metals?
Because of the iron is the only one that
that expresses magnetism that is magnetized. It's the, the, the, the element of the iron that
gives them magnetism, you know, without, if we don't have iron, we don't have this magnetism.
And, and well, as an element, because the magnetic field is developed whenever we have electrons
running. So when we have electrons moving around them, we have magnetism.
And so because we belong to this iron gender, let us say, iron, iron. Yeah. We are the people of the iron.
Of the iron. Yes. And our mind, because it's mega snooze magnetism, the big mind. So it has to do with the mind.
And if we add, sum up the magnetic fields of our minds, because the, we have electromagnetism, because
we are charged negatively because of the karmic debts that we owe in an etheric field, I mean,
so we carry a negative load here, negative charge. And whenever in physics, there are negative
charged, negatively charged particles, the electrons moving, we have magnetism around magnetic fields.
This is how the magnetic field is developed. If you don't have moving electrons, you don't have
a magnetic field. So I'm like a moving electron because I'm negatively charged because of my karmic debts.
So the magnetic field. So the magnetic field I develop characterizes my iron, let us say, gender.
So if you add and you sum up, you add all the magnetic fields of the minds,
the more phronesis you have, the more, you know, wisdom inside you, the smaller the angle, you know, of this.
Yes. The lower this phronesis is, if you don't care about the mind at all, it goes.
It's like here the right way to go to the heavens. And then you go.
You understand? I do.
So the more enlightened and aware and sentimentally clear the people are,
the better this, the closer this angle is to the natural angle, to the natural axis of the earth.
So when, because in this book, Plato gives a myth, the myth is a coded message, it's coded truth.
And it calls it the myth of the sacred shepherds. This was this is the mythos, theon is sacred of the gods.
And suffered is Pimenos. And they said that when the human race
first appeared on earth. There were demons that
supervised this
species, humans, and
helped them enjoy earth and their life without being getting tired.
And the earth used to give all the fruits and whatever, the harvest, you know, without any effort.
And they used to remind them all the time about their divine origin.
And everything was peaceful. But the, but Zeus said,
Zeus said that I made this type of species having free will.
So don't tell them all the time what to do. And they should not be guided anymore,
any longer. And they should be left to decide on their own.
And then they started to be subdued by the passions, how you say, stuff like that, you know.
Yeah, subdued. Yeah, that's good.
They succumb to the passions. Yeah, they succumb to the passion.
Yes, they started succumb to the passion.
And then the angle of this, you know, and when they saw that the, we should not allow this any
longer, you know, we cannot withstand this any longer, then the things go upside down. And this
is human nature, because the first thing you experience is not the power of your mind, but the power of your senses.
Yes, entering a body is that's why
we have a word for the little kid before he goes to school.
We call it Nipion and Nipion means knee, which is no, no, the right is derived from knee.
And apples, which means speech.
So the one that cannot speak.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, you know.
Okay, there's so many things in my mind, but a few of them very briefly.
All the things you speak of here, these are things that Angel showed me about all these things.
The things that you talk about Plato talking about, I have seen them.
I know it must be something similar that he experienced or was taught by, because it is the same thing.
It taught me that.
Well, it showed me that the humans are in a lot of danger because they are misbehaving very badly,
very badly, like catastrophically.
And they think they don't have long memory.
They have short.
Our species has short memory.
So we don't remember what happened when this happened before.
We don't remember.
As a species, we don't have any memory of it.
We have stories of the flood and things like this, right?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
So he showed me.
I use the word he.
It's not entirely correct.
I only use it casually.
I use it casually.
Usually, actually, what I say is they, because it's very complex what their identity is.
In any case, there are different ways that justice, that the re-initiation of immortality
that you spoke of, there are different ways.
One is the sun.
The sun changes, everything dies, right?
Another is the earth herself.
If she puts up a bubble of methane from underneath the ground, everything dies, right?
Yeah.
Another is the sun.
If it is angry, it doesn't have to do it itself.
It can call, it can call a stone.
They can call a stone.
And the stone will strike the earth.
And that will wipe everything out.
And finish.
Also.
Methane, right.
Meteorite.
Yeah.
And also, the poles can flip.
Right?
Also.
All of these things.
And there are a few other things.
In our time, the humans are powerful enough to initiate massive destruction on their own.
I suspect, though, I'm not sure about this.
And let me be really clear about something.
I love the humans.
And I love the animals.
And I love the ocean and the forests and the mountains.
I love this world.
Adore with great adoration.
I adore.
I adore this world.
I am a friend of this world and its origins, right?
So I don't want everything to be killed.
Yeah.
But I suspect that if the humans try to wipe out each other, I suspect something will intervene.
I think it will not allow it.
No.
No.
I don't think it will allow it.
So, okay.
I wanted to say those things.
I'm sure of that.
Yeah.
We feel similarly.
We feel similarly about this.
There are other intelligences that are not human that are involved in the earth, that are involved in the humans.
They are involved in time space, in the sun, in everything, right?
There are other intelligences that we don't have very good language for.
And I want to ask you some questions about this.
But very briefly, what the angel told me about the thing, the story in Genesis is very interesting.
It actually, and there are two different stories.
It actually gave me five different stories.
It never told me one story.
Only humans do this.
He was like, oh, there's one.
This is the story of how it is, right?
And they give you one story.
It always said, have five stories.
See from different angles.
Because each of the five stories will expand your insight, right?
Why do your people always think there's one thing?
It's like having one finger on your hand.
Why would you do that?
Anyway, one of the stories it showed me was that there is a problem when an animal
becomes capable of representational cognition to make a token and to attach that token to a situation
and experience, which is what happens to the child.
This is what it allows it eventually to speak, right?
It gets representational memory.
It gets representational cognition.
And there are a variety of problems that ensue when this gift is conferred on an animal.
But the light of origin is dimmed.
Now this animal will become very confused and will start having tokens.
It is knowledge.
This is what we call knowledge, right?
And this in the Bible, in English anyway, you know, God says, apparently,
according to, you know, the Genesis stories.
There are, you know, you can eat of all the trees in the garden except one.
Right?
Don't eat of the tree of knowledge.
And actually, what is being said there, it's not actually knowledge.
What is being said, if you examine the etymology, I can't examine the Greek, but I'm curious about it.
But if you examine the etymology of Hebrew, it's not the tree of knowledge.
It's a tree that's the tree of what separates the earth from heaven.
It's like the umbilicus.
It's the umbilicus where the earth was severed from heaven.
That's what is being said.
Don't eat of the place.
Don't go to the place where the earth has been separated from heaven.
And it's not necessarily the physical earth.
It could be.
But there's something very trippy here.
Because essentially what the angel told me is that the angel that makes cuts, the angel that divides things, it is there.
It is there because it has just cut the umbilicus.
And if you go there, that angel will teach you its power.
And its power is to make cuts in identity, to separate identities, right?
And this power is the power of making.
And this is the power that humans use to make objects, right?
Like this thing.
This is just my teacup.
It's very stained with tea.
But yeah, to make objects, to separate and form a separate thing.
And what happens is that that power in our minds is very dangerous.
Because we become fascinated by the different ways of separating things.
Which, of course, language is one of those skills, right?
We become fascinated with that.
And we lose the memory of origin.
And this is just one story.
Now, also, it says there's another tree.
Go ahead.
And let me comment on that.
If I have understood right, you talk about the unity.
So this is the unification, not being separated, but as a whole,
the connection between the lower part and the upper part of the earth and the heavens.
And this tree unites this.
So we have everything in unity.
And the unity actually comes, we say enosis, enosis, unity.
And en is the one.
Enosis is the movement towards, the pushing towards, this is osis.
So enosis, which is unity, is the pushing towards the end, the one.
Enosis.
Enosis.
Enosis.
Enosis.
Well, all the beings are related and connected somehow to the one.
And we call this in the philosophy, philotis.
All philotis, philos is the friend.
So we are all friends together and we unite and we unite with them.
Now, this is what we call in philosophy, deification.
This is the divinization, the deification.
I resonate with the sequence of the mind pulses of the one.
You know what I mean?
I resonate, so we are all together.
Now, if we separate, well, the word serpent has to do with separate.
You see?
Oh, yes.
Yeah.
It's like separate things.
When the serpent goes on the land, it's literally separating the two parts of the world, right?
Exactly.
It's like drawing a line that separates the land into pieces.
Yes.
Exactly.
So when you divide and you separate, you create the multiple species.
So we have the world of life, the world that we can see with our eyes, the material world that we can
sense with our senses is a multiple species world.
Also, in language, you have the categories.
So the fact that we have multiple things, the multiplicity and the unity are the two different worlds.
I am one organism, but I have a multiplicity of cells.
I am many in one.
Yes.
So the divinity is the state of the one.
Everything is the same.
We feel the same.
We don't separate each other.
There's no ego.
There is one that we belong to, all of us, okay?
And the world of the multiplicity, of the multiple, of the many species, of the many egos, of the many identities, of the many whatever.
And this is the what separates the two worlds.
In philosophy, we have the unification of time and space and the quantum continuum and the ether
and all this stuff is one.
Everything is one.
And the world of differentiation of multiplicity and of the many, of the existence of the many.
Okay, so I don't know if you mean this, but this is what we have in philosophy.
And when you are even in the state of your incarnate soul, you have three centers.
Mm-hmm.
And you have to unite the three centers under the guidance of wisdom, you know, of a phronesis.
Okay, so firstly, it should be obvious that unity expands into diversity and then contracts into unity and expands into diversity.
And it's breathing like this, right?
The problem for the humans is that at this phase, you can think that each of these tips of my fingers,
you can think they are separate, but they are not separate.
And the forgetting, the amnesia, the amnesia of the unity, right, is what conflicts the humans.
And part of it is related to abstract knowledge, to knowledge of things without spirit, right?
Yeah.
This is dangerous for us.
And of course, so much more they showed me, and I don't have time today to, I don't want to lecture about it either.
But effectively, it is as if there is an angel, so to speak, whose job it is to make cuts, right?
And that angel is super important, it's not evil, it's not bad, it's not a bad angel, right?
The problem is that when the humans met it, they got its power too early.
Before they were wise, they got this power of dividing things and making parts, right?
And it corrupted their memory.
In this version of the story, there are other interesting versions that are different.
In this version, it corrupted their memory.
And also, it is very similar, in a way...
It corrupted their memory, so they don't remember their origin, eh?
Yeah, they don't remember the unity.
They just, they remember, they think about this thing, the tip, right?
They experience only the separation.
Yes.
But also, it's...
What did the angel say?
What did the angel say here that there was another angel that divided the species?
Yeah, this is what is the serpent.
This is what is meant by the serpent.
Also, they call that the first angel.
They call it the first one, for some reason.
They call it the first one.
And it's not bad.
They don't see it as evil.
In fact, the other angels contain that angel inside them, right?
Like, each generation of angels in this story.
It's a toy.
I'm not saying it how it is.
I'm not trying to be religious.
The first angel, it escaped heaven.
There's a long story about that.
And it's sort of made the material universe.
It is kind of the father of the material universe, in a way.
This is the very important difference between Christianity and the Greek perspective, let
us say, of life.
And one of the main differences is that the Christianity doesn't accept reincarnation.
There's no way not to do that.
Right, because they're different.
And the other is that there is no way that an angel decided to leave the heavens just like
that and, you know, disobey God and think that he will become the God and all these things.
This is not acceptable in Greek philosophy.
There are no angels that have free will.
They obey the cosmic law, which is the law of the good.
It is as if the being who dwells in unity, what we think of as God, right?
God doesn't act directly in this story.
He doesn't act directly, right?
No, no.
Indirectly through them.
He has fingers.
And each finger is a different color.
Yes, exactly.
This is a very nice example.
This is the palm, by the way, that the whole hand is the God.
And the fingers are the demons and the separate.
Exactly.
So everything has a place where it was cut, in a way, from the unity, right?
And on our body, that place is the umbilicus, right?
We were severed, right?
From our mother.
Yes, the umbilical cord.
Yeah, which is also kind of like the snake.
It's almost like a serpent.
Yeah, it's like an umbilicus.
It's like an umbilicus.
It's a spiral.
It's a spiral.
It's like an umbilicus that is alive.
And it's like a serpent inside the womb.
Yes, yes.
And also, it connects you to death.
The serpent connects you to death.
If it bites you, or, you know, it is also a medicine.
The venoms, these were medicines, right?
Long time ago.
This is why Asclepius has this.
Listen, in Greek, we say pharmaki is the venom.
Yes.
And pharmaco is the medicine.
Yes, yes, yes, exactly.
Pharmaki and pharmaco.
Right, and this is all mostly forgotten.
We have like memories in the symbols and things, right?
Like the, um, what is the symbol of the, uh, the doctors in the United States, right?
It's a, it's a rod.
Caduceus, Caduceus, Caduceus.
And the Caduceus, he has two serpents.
Yeah, right, exactly.
Of God, they're missed.
These things have been forgotten, but they are real.
They are, they're not, they're not real in terms of, um, you know, like, uh, like some, like some object is real.
They are real in, in, in the, the character of the nature of the relationship between origin and being.
The character of this relationship, these things are real in that way.
And the humans have forgotten them, mostly.
There are some people like you and others.
This, um, madman who I spoke of briefly in our last discussion, his name is Amon Hillman.
He talks about some of these things.
He's crazy.
His name is Amon Hillman.
I'll send you a link, but he's, he's very, um, he's very dramatic.
He's, he's, he studies ancient Greek.
He's a classicist.
He reads Galen.
Galen, the old Greek surgeon, right?
Thousands of pages, this Galen wrote.
Hillman knows this stuff.
Um, and he talks about the serpents and the pharmacone.
Galen, Galenos.
Ah.
Ah, yeah.
Um, yeah, I'm trying to, to understand who is Galen.
Yes.
Galenos is a great Greek, ancient Greek doctor.
Yes.
Hillman studied Galenos in depth for 20 years, right?
He's read most of what he wrote.
Um, and like I said, I mean, he's covered in Greek tattoos.
He has Medea tattooed in Greek.
He, Medea is his, he adores Medea, right?
Um, and he talks about the Medusa and, okay, he's a madman.
He is mad.
Really, eh?
He is mad.
He's amazing too, right?
Part of how I came to you was by discovering.
He's Americana.
He's Americana.
Yes.
Yes, he's American.
Um, and part of how I came to you was by discovering him.
Oh.
This is part of what that means.
And, uh, what's the background of his studies?
I mean, um, philosophy or something?
Classicism.
Study of languages, right?
He has a PhD.
He has a PhD in classicism.
Here's what happened to him.
He wrote about drug use among the Romans for his thesis.
Okay.
He wrote about drug use among the Romans for medicine and other things.
And his thesis advisors said, you have to take all of that out of the thesis.
We won't, we won't publish your thesis.
You can't, you can't tell people the Romans were using drugs like this.
And, um, he said, he said, why, why?
And they said, because the Romans wouldn't do that.
And so he took everything out of the thesis, but he had a big chip on his shoulder about this.
Right.
He's very upset.
He had to sort of, uh, you know, castrate his thesis, right?
And castrate his thesis to get his PhD.
And so he did, and then he wrote, yes, he, uh, compromised.
Yes.
But he was very upset about it.
And, um, he is a magician.
He is a magician.
He studies the PGM too, right?
The, the papyrus, papyrus, grae, magica, you know, the PGM, the Greek magical papyri.
Ah, papyri, the magical papyri.
Yeah.
Ah, in Egypt.
Yeah.
But the Greek magical papyri, the Greek.
Oh, there are Greek magical papyri.
I didn't know.
I thought they were only, really.
Oh, yeah.
No, this is, this is central.
Uh, many students of ancient Greek, brilliant man, including his mentor, Scarborough, studied
and translated the Greek magical papyri.
And these have spells.
These are, these are spells in them.
And, and Hillman practices these rites, right?
He's a magician.
Not like you were being, right?
He's a magician.
And, and he, he does practice this using the spells.
Really?
Oh, yeah.
And he, he, they are effective.
I mean, he comes in contact with, uh, uh, demons and all this stuff.
Yeah, I'll tell you, I'll tell you.
So, like, can I just tell you a little story?
Yeah.
So, I was listening to him and, like I said, he's, he's mad.
I mean, he's, he's a madman, but he's also brilliant and, and he's very entertaining and
very charismatic in his peculiar way.
So, I'm going to, I'm going to emulate him for a while.
I'm going to impersonate him.
So, he was on a, uh, he was on a podcast and the, the host, I'm going to interview him.
I'm trying, you know, I'm going to get him, I'm going to get him in an interview sometime
soon, I think.
Anyway, the host says, um, you know, you're so amazing.
You've read all these texts and you just slip in and out of these different eras of human
development so fluidly.
I wonder what it would be like to, to have read everything you've read.
And Hillman says, I got to cheat.
Can I tell you?
Not supposed to tell this if you're a magician, but I got to cheat.
She's a dead girl from the bronze age.
And I can, I can talk with her and she will resurrect the minds of the ancient people.
right before me so I can interview them.
I have a cheat, this dead girl, right?
And he's in love.
What did you tell me something?
What is cheat?
I, I've got to cheat.
What?
A cheat is like a, um, I have a trick.
I have a trick.
I have a trick.
I can do to resurrect the minds of the dead ancient right before me.
And I can talk to them and I can ask them questions.
Last night, he can resurrect the minds of the, of the, uh, bronzy era of people.
Oh my God.
And he, he poses questions.
Uh, he takes answers.
Yeah, yeah, but it's, it's much more than that.
I mean, it's very, it's very theatrical.
His, you know, his way of being is very theatrical and profound, um, and profane and profane.
Uh, but he's, he's fascinating and brilliant.
And, you know, um, I have, I've written some about him and I've had one conversation with him so far, but we didn't record it.
Um, and the thing is, after we had a conversation about him, um, after we had a conversation, I had a dream about him.
When did you first meet him?
I first encountered his work about six months ago.
Six months ago?
Yeah.
And about two months ago, we first had a conversation.
I, I wrote an essay about him, which I knew would get a lot of airplay because he's recently sort of become well-known on the internet, in a little part of the internet.
With a podcast?
Say again?
With a podcast.
Yeah, yeah.
That he did.
Yeah.
He also, he was interviewed on a, on this guy, um, Danny Jones's podcast, and it made him kind of famous.
Um, and one of the things he's saying is that the Septuagint predates any written Hebrew Torah, right?
So the Greek predates the Hebrew.
This is very controversial, but this is what he is saying.
Um, and he has a lot of crazy things to say about Jesus and Christianity.
In any case, uh, I, okay.
So I had a conversation with him and then the next, and I knew this was, I was pretty sure this was going to happen.
The next day I had a dream in which he showed up, right?
And we conversed.
After, after you met him, you had a dream and he showed up in the dream.
And I was expecting a very powerful kind of dark, you know, sort of presence, but that is not what happened in the dream.
What happened in the dream was very warm and human and not like, not like his stage persona at all, right?
Very human, trustworthy, warm, you know.
Um, it's like, uh, you, you're telling me, um, trustworthy.
So the, the dream shows you that he's, he's not to blame.
I mean, he's, uh, he's trustworthy.
Look, he poses as a, as a catalyst of apocalypse.
Catalyst, he poses as a catalyst of apocalypse.
We are bringing the apocalypse, right?
Catalyst of apocalypse.
Apocalypse.
World ending.
End of the world.
Catalyst.
End of the world.
All right.
At the end of the world.
Just a minute.
Spell it.
Catalyst.
I know catalyst.
Of?
Here, I'll write it in the chat.
I'm on hill, man.
Ah, apocalypse.
Apocalypse.
Oh, apocalypse, yeah.
Now, I'm not trying to sing his praises to you.
He's a very unusual and eccentric person.
Um, but I have learned some astonishing things from listening to him, right?
Even if someone is sort of deranged, and I'm not saying he's deranged either, but even if someone is kind of out of their mind, someone who has insight can still draw out medicine, right?
From that, if you see what I'm saying, and this is part of why I'm interested in him, but I see in our conversation, it's so much different.
Um, your, uh, your history and the spirit of your way in the world is very, by the way, he's very concerned about justice, right?
He knows, he knows, he knows the secrets, he talks about the mysteries, he has studied them, not to the degree you have, or in the way that you have, but he's very aware that, um, sort of that the humans have departed, right?
From the way that is just and true, um, you said that, uh, he claims that, uh, the Greek language predates, predates, uh, Hebrew means it's before that.
This is predates, this is what you mean.
Yeah, no one likes that.
Everybody's very upset when he says this.
All the scholars are furious.
They call him demented and insane.
There's no evidence of this, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
Well, this, the scholars, uh, claim that the Hebrew is, uh, older than the Greek and the Greek borrowed from Hebrew.
And Hillman says, no.
Not because I'm Greek, but this is insane.
How come a language full of vowels, uh, you know, originates from a language without vowels?
I mean, it's, I mean, I could, you know, I could argue either side.
I could argue both sides.
Um, but what Hillman is specifically saying is that the Septuagint, which is the Greek Bible, right?
The Greek version of the Torah, yeah.
He's saying this predates written Hebrew Torah.
The Greek predates the written Hebrew Torah.
And I've heard this before him and I was astonished to, to hear it.
Oh, the Hebrew Torah, Torah was written first in Greek, eh?
Bible.
Yeah, the Pentateuch, right?
The five books, Pentateuch.
Yeah.
So, anyway.
And they, they call it the translation of the 70.
Yes.
70 people who were.
Yeah, yeah.
Ptolemy, Ptolemy did that.
He got rabbis together separately and had, had scribes write it in Greek is the story, right?
Now, look, I didn't mean to, um, drag our conversation towards Amin Hillman, but I did want to at least, uh, introduce the idea into our discussion.
Um, and, okay.
Oh, okay.
So I want to ask you, uh, what are the gods?
What?
What are the gods?
The gods?
Yeah.
Uh, the gods are the manifestations of the one, uh, in different, uh, domains.
Ah.
Let's say, for example, uh, Zeus, Zeus, Zeus, Zeus, uh, he has three names.
I explained them to you in the previous, uh, and, uh, when, uh, uh, when it expresses, he expresses himself.
He's the, the god that gives life, the donor of life, actually, because one of the name is Zin, which means live in, in ancient Greek.
So he's the donor of life, uh, Zeus, and when this god, the power of this god is expressed inside me, uh, when it, when it expresses, he expresses himself in my mind is called Zeus.
Yes, when he expresses himself in my heart is called Poseidon.
So Poseidon, the god of the sea, because the feelings and the sentimental state here, the emotion is like the waves.
Water.
Okay.
So when, uh, uh, the god, uh, expresses himself as sentimental expression of the feelings and emotions is called Poseidon.
And, and, and when he expresses himself as bodily desires and bodily nature, um, structure of the body and, uh, hormones and all this stuff and the way my body works and what my, how my desire works and all, all this is called, ah, this had, Hades.
Hades.
Hades.
Hades, Hades, Pluto.
Ah, Pluto.
Uh-huh.
Okay.
Pluto is that same god as Hades, but is in different.
Manifestations, yes.
Example, I am Maria as a philosopher and the writer.
I am Maria as a mother.
I am Maria as a godmother, a grandmother.
I am Maria as a teacher or whatever.
You know what I mean?
Yes, yes, yes, yes, of course.
So it depends on the way I express myself.
Uh, so, um, the gods were not humans for, in no way, no way.
They are, let's say, manifestations of the mind, of the cosmic mind, of the one.
Manifestations.
And these are them.
Is the cosmic mind the one?
Does something contain it?
Is there a context that the cosmic mind is in or no?
No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, actually, the, the idea of space, uh, is not prior to the one, you know, when you say that the one is contained in a space, in a, in a, something, uh, there must be space before the, the one, but the one, uh, we call it Ariton, which means there's no way to the one.
There's no way to express it.
Yes, yes, it's crucial.
There are no words to prescribe, to describe it, to describe it.
Oh, it's like, uh, it should be obvious to humans that talking about this is kind of silly in one sense, which is the possibility of speech.
Before you're speaking, there is the possibility of speech.
And before you're being, there is that from which being comes.
So how are you going to get above that from which being comes and then encompass it with language?
How will you do that?
Right.
You cannot encompass it with language.
Right.
You can speak because it exists.
You cannot speak it.
Right.
So it is unknowable in the sense of one can not unnameable, unnameable.
Yes.
I like this word.
Unnameable.
Yes.
This is Ariton.
Unnameable.
Yeah.
Okay.
So then the angels and the demons and the creatures and the humans, these are created beings.
Yes.
Yes.
In our tradition, Proclus says this analytically.
Proclus is the leader of the Platonic Academy, you know, 450 BC, AD, AD, 800 years after Plato.
And he introduced the mysteries inside the Christianity.
This is my point of view because a Christian writer of his age, I mean, of his, during the age that Proclus lived, we call him Michael Pselos, Michael Pselos, Michael Pselos.
He's a Christian writer, very important, and he names Proclus as the last year of fund.
And I don't think, because the Alepsinian mysteries were destroyed in 396 by Alarichus,
and we came with hordes of monks and burned the sacred place of, you know, of LFCs, the sanctuary, and killed all the clergy, let us say, all this priesthood, we would say.
Except there must have been, not just priests, not just priests, but the massacres, yes, the massacres, yes, the women, the women, and women, and whoever, yes, all of them.
And the last year of funds had predicted that because he could very easily go to, you know, the ethereal field where there is no future past and, you know, everything is unified there.
And he said, he told his son to take the mysteries and continue them in the academy, the platonic academy.
Because in the mysteries, you were able to come in contact, to activate the pine...
Oh thank you.
Penneal gland
Penneal gland.
The one that is, how you say an epiphysis, the one that is like a pine coal, pine cone?
Yes, now you say pineal, pineal, yes.
Yes.
Also, when that happens, it makes nectar.
nectar comes down into your mouth i have tasted this i know this i have tasted the nectar that
comes into the mouth from the roof of the mouth it comes down it is so sweet it is like the nectar
of intelligence right i know this how do you call it nectar nectar like you get from nectar nectar
yes yes nectar makes nectar it comes down yes i've i've had this experience twice
once when the angel was with me the first time and again the second time
both times in the beginning the nectar would flow and i i didn't associate it with my pineal gland
because i they didn't teach me about that particularly but i know now that that is what
it's from it's like it's something that will keep you alive you don't need food
if you have this you do not need food it will nourish it's nourishing it's like a soul food
right it feeds the soul and then the body is fine it doesn't need exactly yeah it doesn't exactly it's
like this so uh in in uh in the heavens in mount olympus they treat each other with the nectar and
ambrosia and which means ambrosia means you are not immortal anymore this is ambrosia means immortal
so ambrosia is the the soul the food of the soul that makes you immortal yes and nectar
is actually yes the actually uh nectar is uh the the word is news actor means the holder of the
minds of the mind power yes this is the nectar so you feel that and uh what i was telling yes so uh
he predicted the end of the this the last era fund who died at about 90 something years old and after
that uh the alari who's came and killed all the preschool as i said so i'm sure that broclos who was
taught by the son of this era funds the son of this era fund no the last era fund uh who was
the leader of the leader of the academy when broclos came to athens to study in the platonic academy
he was 22 and for sure he was initiated by him uh so he wouldn't to allow uh the mysteries to get lost
you know so so he i uh because the michael pselos says that he was the last year of fund uh i'm sure he
wouldn't allow this to happen so he thought that some of the uh philosophers in the platonic academy should
um accept to become christians uh pretend that they want to be christians so that they could introduce
uh the the mysteries inside christianity and i know christianity very well because my mother was uh
how you say psaltery uh when you in the choir in the when the choir choir the choir the choir yes
uh and uh she knew a lot of psalms you know this and and uh we didn't used to go to church very often
but we knew all this and i was very well aware of what the psalms said and because i know philosophy
now i can spot what really is a greek origin i mean and the orthodox christianity still have the
ancient language the ancient greek so yes this is very important in my early christian i was a christian
for a time in my early christian experience i was exposed to the orthodox to the orthodox monks
in the monastery right so i have some connection and knowledge with this it also it seems obvious
something kind of blatant the christians say like uh and i'm not trying to cast shade on anyone's
religion or even on christianity but the christians say something like except jesus you will be resurrected
after you die which seems to be that they have cribbed the the the core of the mysteries which is
to experience death while you were alive and to be resurrected in this body resurrected in the knowledge
of death and what what birth is for and to be freed of the desires while you're still a human being
and so then to be freed of the cycle of birth and death now also they celebrate on we celebrate on the
6th of august the metamorphosis of christ and this the metamorphosis is that he literally becomes light
a before the eyes of the disciples so they are astonished with this the metamorphosis and this means this
actually happens uh when you are in the last cycle of incarnation uh you transform into light because
you remain just mind and not body you come is the separation of the soul of the of this of the mind from
the soul we we have the separation of the soul from the body is called death the separation of the mind from
the soul is called second death and this is the metamorphosis into light
light and when you become a photon because the amazing thing in chemistry is that the photon comes from an
electron it's a hyper hyper reactive state of the electron so when the electron and is
a uh when a a a neutron which is a a small
particle a subatomic particle let us say strikes the electron in an in a
orbit that it is then the electron goes towards the the the nucleus the nucleus yes then the nucleus and
because it doesn't feel well there it cannot exist there because the around the nucleus there there is
only a certain specific number of the electrons that can exist at this state so when an electron of the
the of the external uh or orbit uh comes because of the strike takes kinetic energy and comes down there is like
having um a spring
crust and then release it so this dynamic energy there is transformed again into elect into kinetic energy and
then the electron comes back because it cannot stay there for a long time and as it comes back to its original state
then it releases a photon
and this is how a photon is created with the super uh charge the super activated uh energy state
of the electron so when i'm a super activated
human mind by the logos of a divine being that comes to me like you experience you know that i experienced
and all this stuff then when i come back to my original state i'm not the same
yeah i emit photons i radiate you see it you said before so the and these are my this is my metamorphosis
actually because i cannot be the i cannot think the way i used to yeah no no no no no no way
i agree i agree i agree i'm still okay it's weird though because um in my experience which i i think
i've done something wrong i made a mistake or something but i have this experience like being
reconceived and then like being reborn but then i undergo the same amnesia over time i become a human again
it takes a lot of time it takes like six years or seven years but i start to become a regular human
again because the light that was shining in my mind is so far away in the past now right so it's like i
start to become amnesia again some i cannot think the way i used to think that is true but it is as if
something we undergo in childhood we lose something of the origin of our relationship
with origin and perhaps our guardian spirit if you will or the angel or however you want to speak of it
we lose it and we become very mundane right and so we also we lose our imagination we stop playing
right and when the angel is with me my imagination is a it's so it's like a a jungle of brilliant lights
right and then the angel goes away and the and it becomes dark and i start to think like a regular
human again so it's troubling you know darren i i want you to uh remind me in short uh your experience
with with this spirit and what actually you gain and you start how how did this change you
but in in short uh you know without details it happened 2002 when you were 13 and saturday started
from pat i remember you started writing things that came came to you and then you lost this uh this
passage this award because uh you you had a crash on your computer if i remember that was in the late 90s
that was that happened in the late 90s the crash and then in 2002 writing again then the angel shows up
then nine months of learning then it departed it was it was about three years uh before it returned he
returned yeah and you don't remember anything from the first conduct
all i remember from the first thing that happened in the 90s was being over what like something took
over my mind and was just writing through me all right just right yes but but you don't remember
what you wrote oh my god no i remember that it was about it was basically about the same question
right like what happened to the humans how is there medicine for the human right can we somehow repair
them because there must be a way to repair them um that's what the concern was that i that led me
so this this this this concerns the answer all whatever whatever you you you felt like inspiration
and you started writing it was like the answer to this question yeah and and how long did you
were you in front of the computer typing this about two hours
150 pages 150 pages yeah you you wrote 150 pages in two hours yeah just writing yeah very efficient
well i was being done something was doing it for me right i was like halfway i was halfway through maybe
a quarter of the of a book right halfway through the first quarter of a book that would be very long
and i envisioned the whole thing i had the whole vision in my mind and it was just
ah you visioned the whole thing and you started describing this what you you vision yeah yeah
let me ask you something it was like an inner voice that guided your mind about how to write no you just
thought of that like like thoughts it was a catastrophic inspiration that was structured
i could see the whole arc of the book and i just started writing and i got about i don't know an
eighth of the way through the entire vision and then i paused and i saved it and i and my machine crashed
and i lost it um so in a small uh even if you could uh keep it you uh it was about
eight twenty percent of what you visioned that you had written
maybe fifteen percent but yeah yeah also obviously like i thought that was a great tragedy
as a writer you know i was like oh no no no how i can't get it back it's gone i thought it was terrible
but obviously it wasn't terrible because it led this it came back in a different way and then stayed with
me i mean to be honest five minutes of contact with that intelligence i learned more than in my entire life
like it was um impossibly unimaginably intelligent and just to taste it for even a moment it is worth
being born and dying i mean it was ecstatic fulfillment of everything i had ever everything
i was incapable of imagining right just just absolute i felt like oh this is what we are supposed to be
experiencing as humans this is what we have lost this is why we are blind this is everything i wish
if i could make some kind of an analogy let me see okay imagine that a bird has been chained to a rock
and it's never seen flight and all the birds are chained to rocks and that's how birds are
and then something comes and it takes the chains off and it teaches the bird about flying
and the the wind and the sun and the atmosphere and how to relate with them this is how it was for
the first time i was like a creature imagine like a fish that has never been in water
right this is how it felt right it's like the cape of the platonic cave you know yes yes when when you are
used to the darkness you cannot have an idea about the light and you cannot stand the light yeah definitely
not people write stories about the light but the stories don't they don't help you right they can
tell you all kinds of things and it it doesn't help you um and you know look it was a mythic experience it
was it was the experience of being a mythic being and i am still quite confused about what happened i
don't understand it i cannot encompass it with my intellect and very frankly don't feel particularly
special i don't think like oh darren's something really important because he had this experience
that's not how i feel at all i rarely speak of the experience mostly what i do is i write about what i
learned what i was able to see and understand from the experience not so much about the experience
i don't think i'm interesting what i was shown is interesting
yeah but did did you have the feeling that he was your guardian spirit yeah much they went okay
so it went through phases it was like climbing a staircase and in the beginning
i thought oh this is the genius that has always been in me this is my guardian angel this is my genius
right but then it was clear that there was something else that was not me and then it
was clear there was a group of other intelligences and then it was clear it was a vast collective of
other intelligences and then it was as if a little angel started to prepare me for the next thing that
would happen and then like thunder of intelligence barely survivable like an angel came and i could barely
survive contact with it and that was with me for the rest of the of these like sending you other
other divine species lower than him to prepare you let us say to prepare your
your intellect to receive this powerful light later this is yes also it had to change my
it had to do something with my memory and my intelligence to allow them to interact and survive
the exposure because in their ordinary state they cannot survive the exposure to us
it had to restructure them slowly like you would teach a child to walk
similar to teaching a small child to walk right like grabbing you out of the darkness of the cave
and leading you slowly and when plato says you come out of this cave there must be
not very strong light there must be you must be under the moonlight
you see to see a good moonlight so that you can see around but not under the direct
light of the sun because you could be blind yeah exactly so it was like they um they shaded
the actual intelligence is like a nuclear explosion or impossible to understand not even more i'm so much
more than that like more than the sun impossible and so they would just let a little bit light through
the cracks so that i could survive exposure and then i would adjust and then exactly exactly and then
then opening the cracks like that yeah this is what i remember well so did he give you the answers you
were looking for yes i remember many of them but there are vast vast things i cannot recall
i wrote a lot i wrote all day every day i was writing during my you did so you have you have somewhere
all the things that you could remember written do you have a lot of them i mean the writing is
different from what he showed me but there are certain things that i wanted very carefully to
preserve stories about the problems with the humans in the beginning and so forth um so i have a lot of
things i have not sorted through that but yeah i've got probably a couple thousand pages of materials
wow wow wow amazing and did did they satisfy you i mean uh did you find them meaningful in terms of
understanding your existence as a human being yes but except uh the thing is i was kind of on a mission
for for the people right i wasn't trying to help darren i was trying i'd be willing to give up darren if
i could help the people right so kind of the answer to your question is no right like i i've seen
i didn't ask them a lot about death but i asked them a lot about origin and i still fear death
right i still fear death you do yeah i do still fear death and i am not balanced in the way you
described i'm not yet balanced uh well being incarnated uh is synonym to unbalanced
if we were balanced we wouldn't need incarnation right okay so here's a question do some people
who have escaped do some people who have um completed the cycle of incarnations do some of them return
anyway yes they return uh this is uh what uh odyssey is about because although odysseus goes through this
terrible uh uh not trip experience from the troya troi to back to ithaca passing all through all this
tortures let's say and all these experiences from cyclops to whoever a kirki and so many things
that he had to survive reaching the fescians fish fescians fescians how you call them feakis
before before before going to ithaca it's p-h-a-e-c-e-a-n-s patience and these are the
uh when when he meets he he's uh uh he he had a ship he was as a shipwreck and he was uh coming from a
shipwreck and he was naked and he came onto the this island and the the daughter of the king
nafsika found him while she was playing ball with her servants do you know this story and the the
they were uh the king and the queen and the he their sons and the daughter and she was very playful and
he she found him and then she guided him to the palace and he participated to
uh to a game with the the other fescians so actually the code is that the this fescians
are the archangels are you know this is the analogy so they are the top uh rank of the demons
these are the fishes and odysseus who is the human who is to be deified and divinized let us say
reaches that state and he asks to help the two he asks them to help him come back to ithaka and ithaka
it has almost the same etymological uh route with ethiki that are ethics
uh-huh you see ithaka and it is our world where we are incarnated ithaka is our world where we should
manifest uh our morality the more you know our virtuous state
our morality i mean there is ethos morality as as i told you before ethos and ethos
and so he asks to come back to help others because the this a human being that is divinized
and he is divinized because of the need to offer yes yes yes and express love yes and after that he
cannot stay there he wants to come back to the cave to tell the others there is light out there
yeah whatever you see here is the matrix the matrix is the matrix is not the real thing come out there
because i have been there and i see the real thing but they don't believe him although some even one could
break the chains and come up and follow him you know yeah and you know how omer uh shows this in the
cyclops cave when odysseus was inside the cave he could not come out by himself because the cyclope although he
was blind he could grab him but he tied himself under a a male sheep a male sheep yes how you call this male
a male sheep you uh i can't clear all areas areas yeah yeah around around yeah i remember
all right so he tied himself under a ram and this
guided him out of the cave without the cyclope being able to spot him because he touched the ram
this means that you cannot come out of this cave without somebody to carry you out yeah yeah yeah
which also means someone must play the role of the carrier
someone has to become that are you yeah yes because otherwise if you didn't have this experience
you couldn't believe that there is light somewhere else that
it won't help you to believe things believing things i mean it's a little bit useful i don't
want to throw it away but it's not the same as like imagine someone describes to you the problem
with the humans it's like they eat rocks all the time and someone comes to them and goes you know
there's these things called peaches you should try this peach thing usually what's going to happen is
the humans will kill that person because they have religions about eating rocks they've been eating
rocks for hundreds of years their grandparents were eating rocks all their religions are based on eating
rocks right so if you come to them and you say like there's a peach they're gonna kill you or it's
not going to go well you have to go to either a special person and say here taste the peach right
don't don't believe i'm not trying to get you to believe anything just taste this or sometimes you
can go to the youth right because the youth already realizes something wrong with everybody eating
these rocks all the time and you give them a peach and you tell them like don't tell the adults keep
it a secret right but here taste the peach do you so there's i know we're that it's time for you to
rest um but i have many more questions and i hope we can perhaps convene again sometime soon when you
have another time yeah yeah okay but one last question that that uh you you are really transformed
when you come in touch with this power uh you realize that your goal of life
this is what happens to me with archangel michael in my house
i was 55 then when this happened to me after i wrote my first book in philosophy
it was a very unexpected experience uh very
and it was like uh making me not being able to breathe crying all the time so it was i was crying
when he was talking inside my mind you know not without it was like a thought and he explained to me
the name of my guardian spirit that i i had discovered i had asked him in a
how you say
the the word i tried to find the other day uh when when you close your eyes and you stay still and you
meditate meditate meditation yeah meditation when i had a meditation and i asked him about
his name and he gave me a name and some years later i had this experience
and he explained to me that the etymology of this name is like the etymology of archangel michael
and he gave me the etymology and then he started telling me why he was my guardian spirit and why i
was under archangel michael because all the the souls are under a certain archangel no and i am under the
the series series series line how you say of of the guardian spirits that are under and cancel michael
the lineage the lineage the yes the limits the limits exactly uh anyway and uh whenever i am in touch
uh i am in contact with this power the i i feel like there is a divine source that flows through me
and the ex is expressed with my writings and it is a com compelling feeling how you say compelling feeling
that i do not do any way else i you know somehow else but i also enjoy it it's not that i'm you know
i i i i'm uh afraid that something would happen to me if i don't do it and nothing
forces me to do that no it's it is the same it is the same for me when i when i'm writing
from the spirit of insight it is not as good as when the angel was with me but it is like oh this is
what i was made to be doing i'm fulfilling something something i need yes and the your inner call your
inner need to spread this to people i i mean all what what i realize and i find out and uh i said okay
i understand this and understand the other and i so many answers i have during all these years that i
write my books uh i have to share it's not only for me the the the my the spirit says you should do
that now i mean you should devote all there is no free time but it's free time for you
you know you have to write so many things that i give you and i'm so grateful that i understand
and to such an extent and the the only thing that i i'm angry with me i don't know i i i know so many
words and sometimes i feel that my english is so poor uh compared to what i know i mean
when you speak i under i fully understand i say okay i i how come i don't remember the word
to let us say meditation for goodness sake but i think it's a matter of practice you know when
it's a matter of practice if you study ancient greek all day and you write this and really
i suffer from this too because as i my vocabulary was pretty astonishing
and but it started to degrade about oh six years ago and it used to be like i had you know a ferrari
and now i have like you know a volkswagen or something it's still good
but it's not as good as it used to be and you you do have to practice but also with age things change
you know yeah it's hard it bothers me because another goal a very important goal and this was revealed to me
in 2015 when i had this experience that now that you write about the language of the gods
you have to spread it all over the world
this was told to me i said okay how can i do that
and that's why i abandoned my career in order to be an english teacher but i used to be much better
my english uh well i fully understand of course but uh it's a time it's time you know because
over the last uh nine years every day i you know i write and i read philosophy and said greek and all
this stuff and all this it's like fading the other language because if it's not even if it is your mother
tongue you realize that you're not that fluent if you live if you if you leave something unpracticed
you know what i mean yes yes yeah i understand it is uh it is frustrating isn't it
yeah it is it is but okay not too bad i mean at least i can communicate freely i can understand but
the point is i cannot convey to uh so exactly what i want to say yes yes yes this bothers me too when
the when even in the years after right after when i had my experience i could form analogies and
metaphors and parables like you know like yes you are great in the analogies like the glove that you said
before but then now like compared to back then back then it wasn't it was like i was a master of
metaphor and now i'm like you know trying to make a little simple metaphor struggling to find one you
know so i the thing though i'm grateful to have had the experience and also to just still be um lucid
right to not have been driven mad right to to still be alive and you know have some because you could
have been driven mad yes nobody could believe you yeah and even you but because this is a shocking
experience for the body yeah it would drive my heart would feel like it was going to rip itself out of
my exactly exactly exactly what this was going on you know one of the things people say like well why
don't you you know why don't you call the angel and bring it back and i'm like my heart would not
i'm too old right my heart would not survive if the angels yeah it well along with the enthusiasm
the heart just goes like it was beating that fast yes i think some poet it might have been roomie or
rilke they said something like you should be grateful that you don't meet an angel because
if you did your heart would tear itself out of its out of your chest and beat itself to death on the
ground right something like that exactly exactly because imagine it is like the sun approaching the earth
yeah except the root the star of relation and intellect and origin for all the three of these things at
once right yeah yeah it's it's serious but there is a there is a light that lights are interior there is
a sun that lights are interiority and it is alive you know i think uh sting the um the singer for the
police right they had this song there has to be an invisible sun right that makes i can't actually
remember the lyrics like makes the soul of everyone or or awakens us inside yeah and that's why
they call dionysus the son of the midnight ah yeah yeah yeah
