Hello, everybody. Welcome.
Welcome. It's Monday. What? You see, there must have been a time in our, the developmental
history of our species, where days were not numbered or named. Think about how liberating
that might be. There must have been an epoch where time was
not accounted like coins in a bank, stacking up or disappearing.
But, you know, we can, we can do away with such things.
In our own lives, communities and minds, if we are free to play and explore and to remember.
But in this time, it is the month of June, a word meaning moon. And it's about, you know,
the month is way off because the moon is maybe four days old, three or four days old. And
before there were numbers for days and times and cycles, we sensed them in not just our
bodies, but our spirits, our souls, our hearts, our relationships, we sensed them.
Well, this worm seems to want to go across the street. So I'm going to do the kind of silly
human thing and help it. Because if I don't, there's a fairly good chance that pedestrians
will crush it. And who knows what will happen as a result of me taking it across the street,
across the path. Perhaps I will destroy its timeline by doing so. But I can see pedestrians coming
that will destroy it very quickly. Or at least there's a very good chance they will, if I
don't help the creature, so to speak.
Human ideas of what comprises help can be profoundly confused. Mine have been in the past a number
of times. I've seen the capacity for my help to destroy the being that I thought I was helping.
Or my urge to relate with them from the human to the animal layers causes trouble or injury or death,
poisoning or disease, who knows what. Nonetheless, I am at the stage of my own development where I would
like it feels right to take the worm across the road, the path. And I like to think that if I were in trouble,
you know, as humans are to worms, X is to humans. What is X? For some, it is very pragmatically obvious. It is the sun,
the moon, the morning star, companion star, the dipper stars, the Pleiades stars. For example, in my crude understanding of what we might think of as Blackfoot cosmology, except cosmology is the wrong part. It's not a cosmology.
Cosmology is an abstract thing. And whatever the Blackfoot people were up to long ago, it's not an abstract thing unless we make abstractions about it from outside their experiential,
or participated traditions. As Ellen Barfield might say. And we are inclined to make abstractions only about those things which have evacuated themselves from our participatory relation.
And this gives us the false confidence of thinking we understand things with which we have no contact.
This is the power and the lethal danger. Lethal is in forgetting of abstractions and representational cognition itself.
Language. Language. Letters, words, concepts, models, theorems, hypotheses, explanatory protocols, frameworks, traditions, biases, all these things.
I am using them right now to call them into question. And that is my intention. Why do I want to call them into question?
Surely, since I am speaking, I am ironically employing the very behaviors and traditions I am questioning.
I am questioning. So how can both things be true? How can both things be? Which, which of the opposing branches should you, should you authorize?
Well, you should authorize? Well, you should authorize something beyond either of them. And most of the time, much of the time, if you are presented with a stark bipolar choice, is it this or is it that?
Most of the time, it's going to be different degrees of both and nine other things. And most likely, two or three of those other things, if you synergize them, will give you a better position than, oh, it's this or, oh, it's that.
One thing, mind is the death of intelligence. And it's part of the inheritance, the unfortunate and often catastrophic inheritance of us moderns and our relationships with abstraction and representational cognition.
If you imagine a bird with 17 pairs of wings, each one suited to a different dimension of flight, a bird with the capacity of flying in multiple dimensions at the same time and synergizing those forms of flight to produce otherwise impossible abilities.
This is what it means to be human. This is what it means to be human. We are this kind of bird. And I would argue, I would suggest anyway that we are also born for modes of eros and relation and affinity with that which is upscale from us.
If we call this direction. If we call this direction. If we call this direction up, we don't have to, but you can imagine better than, more capable, more ancient, more profound, more intelligent, more insightful, more powerful.
We are born to fly with and for that which qualifies as the response to the partial syllogism I suggested earlier.
As humans are, as humans are, as humans are to earthworms, X is to humans.
In other words, I think our form of life is historically bonded with beings that are not merely physical.
Merely physical.
And some of these beings may have the capacity to physicalize.
Merely physical.
Merely physical.
Merely any animal.
About interruption.
Merely physical.
Merely physical.
Merely physical.
Merely physical.
Merely physical.
Merely physical.
Tone alone.
Merely physical.
Merely physical.
Merely physical.
Merely physical.
Merely physical.
Merely physical.
and then and yet mostly remain in superposition not fully collapse and thus produce non-ordinary
experience in humans who are prone to try to figure out quote-unquote what or who that is
good luck because something that is partially collapsed from a superposition
isn't a what or a who what is it well you're going to still have the same problem there's no way to say
what it is what you can say is what it is not right what it is not is is a
an instance of a familiar category it is not that they are not that
what it is not
is a mostly physicalized mostly localized in space and time entity it's not that
and we can't say definitively much at all about what
it is
what it is equivalent to
mainly because our categories are broken
and
they are ironically self
violating
but we normally don't see this because we believe them
a child is skeptical
a precocious child is very skeptical when they encounter the categories used
to delineate the identities functions origins
natures of phenomenal experience the children
naturally are like you said what wait what
and they don't and they don't at first believe it they think wisely that the adults who are
telling them right not suggesting declaring that the adults who are declaring identities
functions delineations about phenomenal experiences and relationships they think those adults are playing a game
they think they are having the children often think and I recall this from my own childhood
they often think that the adult is quote having them on unquote in British vernacular
surely you cannot mean for example that meat is the result of killing animals that just that just can't be right
the meat that we eat and the dinners you know
that's animals killed and chopped up
no no no no
for one thing why would the adults
opt in
to slaughtering the animals
and then you know all of this
and
you know there's even a bizarre
the children sense the strange onomatopoeia of language
the strange soundings
you know when my mother would say y-o-u spells u and I would think
w-h-y space o-h space y-o-u
you know
and then the next layer down obviously is the y-o-u at the end
so you redo the thing
y
o-h
w-h-y space o-h space y-o-u
and it just keeps going
and when my mother said this to me I was like
nah she didn't
she's toying with my mind
it can't be true that
this is the game and language the adults play
how could it be thus
but the idea that letters
stood for words
was already introduced
in alphabetics
when we were taught things like
A is for apple
B is for ball
C is for cow
D is for dog
all these absurd things
because D isn't for dog
and A isn't for apple
impossible
that those things are true
you
do
you
I
I
I
