Great. Hey, Sergio. I'm so glad that you're here today. Super excited. We had a sort of an
introductory talk last Friday to get to know each other. But I've been a huge fan of your work,
Beware of Images, which I first encountered on Facebook probably 15 or 16 years ago. I mean,
a long time ago in any case. So why don't you just take a moment and introduce yourself and
tell people what you're up to these days? That's great. Well, first of all, thanks for
having me, Darren. It's always a pleasure to talk to like-minded people. And yeah, I really enjoyed
our introductory conversation. So yeah, my name is Sergio Toporek, but everyone calls me Topo
since I was a kid. It's just the first four letters of my last name. But also in Spanish,
I'm from Mexico. And in Spanish, Topo means like a little gopher. And it just stuck. So yeah,
it's actually weird when people call me by my name and not the nickname. And yeah, I am a
visual communicator, graphic designer, an activist. I'm a teacher as well. I taught for 14 years at the
Vancouver Film School in Canada. Then I taught for a while at Emily Carr. And now I'm teaching
at Northeastern University, where I'm leading the Masters in Digital Media. And yeah, I'm very
interested in the way that images affect us. It's an interesting position to be in because I produce
images and I have been part of advertising campaigns and of multiple projects where images are a big part
of the discourse are a big part of the message. And I have a love-hate relationship with him. Let's put
it that way. I love art. I love visuals. I love graphic design. At the same time, sometimes I am not
very sure that, you know, we consider ourselves as designers as problem solvers. I try now to avoid
that rhetoric, I would call it, or that discourse. Because I think we try to solve problems. Yeah,
that's true. But very often we don't. Very often we just generate larger problems than we create. Just
you know, to give you an example, if we try to solve the problem for a company that's trying to sell
more like sugary drinks or more like deep fried, you know, salty snacks to kids. Yeah, I mean,
it's whose problem are we trying to solve, first of all. And so these days I think more of design as
what we do is just we generate hierarchies. We generate hierarchical structures of information.
We tell people, you know, if we were really the problem solvers and you had a labyrinth,
we would tell people how to move around the labyrinth. Now I see design more as the builders
of the labyrinth. We tell people what are the standards of beauty, what you should eat, you know,
what you should aspire to. And we create this labyrinth and now they have to go through it,
right? So I think it's a more honest way of seeing design as we create hierarchical structures
of information. And then we release them to, you know, to societies and then we see what happens.
And sometimes it might solve problems. Sometimes it might generate larger problems.
That's brilliant. Give me just a moment. I'm going to shut my window because I want to eliminate
some traffic noise that will otherwise intrude. So that makes a lot of sense to me.
I've been fascinated with language. I was hyperlexic as a kid. So I was reading novels before I was in
kindergarten. And my own education, my formal education ended about age 12. And so I'm a
self-educated person. And in my 20s, I began to become interested in how language influences
cognition and human behavior. And as a poet and a writer, I started to experiment driven by just
an absolute fascination with what I'll call representational cognition. And I quickly realized
that we were in this kind of dystopian situation in our relationships with language and representation
in general, right? So we were being, our consciousness, our relationships, our behavior,
our work was being structured by something we weren't creating, right? Or we would be conscripted
by the systems to create stuff for them, right? Which we would then release. And so for a little
while, I did some ad copywriting in my 20s. And one of my best friends at the time, who was also
a linguistic experimenter, was like, you've gone to the dark side? What are you doing? And I said,
no, no, I haven't gone to the dark side. I'm trying to understand the enemy from inside,
you know, the enemy terrain. So I very much relate with this dichotomy, right? Between creativity
and serving systems that, let's say, don't have our best interests at heart.
Yes. I think that's a really interesting way of framing it, because I think that to criticize
something, you have to know it, right? And Neil Postman, who, you know, is a major media critic,
one of the, I mean, Jacques Ellul, him, I mean, Chomsky, they've written, you know, a lot about
media criticism. And Neil Postman used to say that the only truly dangerous media is the
unanalyzed media. And I think, you know, that goes to the point that you're making. Like, so you have
to learn it, you have to understand its syntax, its structure, the way that it's used by the different
agents, by the different players. And then you can, then you can start to make it less dangerous.
So you can start to criticize it and bring forward, you know, a sort of media literacy
that, that when you share it with others, it, it, it sometimes, you know, not always that,
that was part of the idea of Beware of Images. I wanted to create a page in a documentary that
help people understand and navigate the media landscape in which we all operate these days.
And it's getting more and more complex and more and more difficult to navigate it as we speak.
So it's been an interesting experiment. Sometimes it's been frustrating. And even I would say depressing
because, um, it's a flood, it's a flood and it's very hard, you know, to, to, to stop it. And, and, um,
you know, this, this is, uh, uh, attributed to Goebbels. I don't know if, if he really said it or not,
the, you know, the, the, the, uh, head of, uh, Nazi propaganda efforts said that, um, um,
propaganda works best when those who are being manipulated are absolutely certain that they are
acting on their own free will. And we live in an age of arrogance. And so it's very hard to tell
people, uh, Hey, look at this. You might be, you might be manipulated. You might be, you know, um,
reacting to, to, uh, to a message that, that it's being placed there so that you do exactly what
you're doing. And I think that if you don't have the humility to, to do self-introspection and to
listen to other people, then, uh, the, you know, just to give you an example, the moment that I start
criticizing a, let's say Facebook within the Facebook platform, almost immediately, the first
reaction is people saying, and, and yet here you are on Facebook. This is, you know, so ironic.
You're criticizing Facebook from within Facebook, uh, or they call me a hypocrite. Right. And, um,
and one thing that I think people don't understand, you know, the, the, the most common comment is if
you don't like it, don't use it. Right. And, um, and, and I think that what sometimes we don't understand
is that, you know, it is, I'm going to make a, you know, a hyperbolic comparison. I'm not trying
to say that Facebook is, is, you know, it's Nazi Germany or anything like that, but I think it
makes a point. It's just, just on a level of conceptual level, right? Not, not, uh, not equivalency
level. They could tell you if you don't like Mein Kampf, don't read it. If you lived in, in, in Germany,
right? Uh, or in Austria at the time, but if you don't read, it doesn't mean that it's not shaping
your culture. So, so when people tell me, if you don't like Facebook, don't use it. It's like, yes,
but I still have to go out and live in a world that's becoming increasingly polarized. I still have to go
out and live in a world that, um, it's becoming increasingly, uh, reductive when it comes to
discourse and, uh, and, and whether I use Facebook or not, it's irrelevant because I'm still going to
have to live in that world. And so, uh, but, but, you know, in a way I compared sometimes to, um,
to how the, the, uh, uh, people would go out to defend their nobility and their Kings, you know,
particularly in, in, in Europe, uh, this idea of defending your oppressor is so weird. Um,
and, and I think it, it has a lot to do of, uh, with, with, uh, when we see someone with so much
power, we tend to think that they know better than we do. Um, whether it's a king or whether it's,
you know, a tycoon, um, and, and so people relinquish their, their critical abilities and,
and become, you know, attack anyone that wants to tell them differently. So, uh, yeah, it's, uh,
it's a very interesting, and as I said, sometimes frustrating phenomenon. I, I, I still love it.
I love doing it. I, I love teaching it. Um, but yeah, it's an uphill battle. There's so much there,
um, to explore. I just want to, I wonder if it might be possible for you to adjust your cam so that
it doesn't autofocus because it keeps coming in. Yeah, I can turn that off. That would be awesome.
Um, I'll just wait till you're done and then. Excellent. It turns on automatically. Yeah, I got
you. Right. Just like everything else in our lives, right? It turns on automatically. Facebook,
social media, right? They turn on automatically. We didn't start them. And now we are subject,
you know, whether we use Facebook or not, whether we use, uh, electronic media or not,
we live in cultures that are profoundly influenced by those things. And the people that we know,
our family members, our friends, our teachers, our students, our coworkers, the police, right?
Everyone that we know, everyone we will encounter, the people at the grocery store, whatever, you know,
wherever we are, doctors, lawyers, bankers, everyone we will encounter is being influenced by this stuff.
So the idea it's like, um, when I realized how dangerous language was, I thought, wow,
we might just be better off without it, but we can't be without it. Right. So then it becomes
incumbent upon us to the best of our ability to understand the structure and how it influences
people and how it's abused. Um, there's so much more to say here, but I'll say something briefly,
uh, which is that it's often considered subversive to question the existing paradigm or
the features of the systemic indoctrination that we undergo as children and adults throughout
our entire lives. It's often called subversive and it can be subversive. Um, but it can also be
proversive, right? We cannot merely criticize. We can actually do something that is beautiful, profound,
human, and intelligent that, that gives people an example of what the alternative might look like.
What would that direction look like? And often if we're criticizing something, then people form up pro
or con, right? They're like for or against our criticisms. But if we invite people into the
possibility of a new way of communicating together or a new way of using media or a new way of using
design, then at least we are, we are doing sort of the, I think a brilliant and altruistic and heroic
thing. We're sort of light housing, right? In the storm, right? Like over here, look over here,
we can do something different. The technology may be oppressive and, um, sensorial and propagandistic
and cater to, uh, this, this common problem in, in human culture, particularly in modernity,
where they just keep lowering the bar, right? And the lower the bar goes, the vastly more popular it
seems to become. So, you know, we face these problems and there are ways that we can together
understand how you actually either influence them or, um, establish something profound and
intelligent and exciting enough that people will defect from the other thing, right?
Yeah, I, I think that you're, you're right. One of the, of the obstacles I have found with
Beware of Images in particular is that that was my initial idea. What if I can use images to, um,
have the, the, the discourse that images are dangerous, right? And, uh, and so one of the, um,
and I wasn't expecting this. I, I, I think, you know, it's been, it's been started the page in 2011.
The documentary was released in 2016. So it's been a very long time.
Um, and, and, and many of these, uh, uh, revelations, if you want to call them,
that came, came along as I was doing, uh, the work and now I am not so sure that I can,
that I can do the initial, um, uh, goal because one thing I've realized that you were mentioning
language, right? And I think you're absolutely right. Uh, you have to be very aware of language.
Uh, one of my favorite, uh, um, historical figures is, is Laozi or Lao Tzu. Um, and, uh,
and, uh, and, uh, the, the very opening line of, of the Tao Te Ching is, uh, the Tao that can be
spoken of is not the real Tao, right? I mean, the very first line is sort of a warning against language,
right? Yes. And, um, and, uh, but yeah, I have to say that languages are different. Uh, so, so textual
language is very different than visual language. Yes. And, um, while I'm afraid of, of, of both,
uh, in, in certain degree, um, I mean, in, in a way, the point of, of 1984 was, yes,
whoever controls language controls the discourse, right? Controls the narrative, controls the,
the population. But there is a difference between textual and, and, and, uh, and visual in the sense that
textual language, the one that we considered valuable tends to be nuanced. Like if I wrote a
whole book, right, that constantly just said, um, let's take a, a, a controversial topic, let's say
abortion, right? If I, if I wrote a whole book that just constantly say, uh, abortion is murder,
abortion is murder, or the opposite, right? I'm, I'm not taking any sides, right? Right. Or that,
that, that, uh, that said, you know, that had page after page, just making the point that, uh, that,
you know, it's all about, um, personal rights. We would put it down very quickly and we would say,
okay, this, this is not very valuable. Images on the other hand are, they are, uh, consumed very viscerally
and very quickly. So an effective text, a valuable text or what we consider a valuable text is usually
nuanced and effective image. The one that we considered usually, you know, that we praise,
you know, in a way, even like with the words and, and, and whatnot are the ones that, that are very
emotional, strike you very hard and move people in a very emotional way. Right. And so I was trying to,
to, um, you know, what I realized is that I was becoming in a way, what I was criticizing would be
aware of images. I was starting to become reductive with my own, you know, point that, that language is
dangerous, but I was starting to become reductive. I was like, is there an escape
of this? If you use, well, first of all, the platform is reductive, you know, it's not just
the images, images within social media is it's this whole, you know, monster. And, uh, and so
that kind of like gave me, gave me pause and I have not retaken the page for many reasons that I'm sure
we're going to discuss about, you know, how Facebook operates and, and, you know, the, the way in which
capitalism affects these platforms. Uh, but also for, for personal reasons where I was realizing,
yeah, uh, if I want to use images, it's very hard not to, because if you do an image that, um,
that tries to be nuanced is it gets, uh, unlike text, right? It gets very little engagement.
And then all of a sudden you do one that it's very polarizing and, and, and, uh, you know,
in a lot of them with ideas that I think are valuable, but it's, but still, you know, having
that, that, uh, uh, characteristic of, of, uh, effective images and, uh, and it, um, you know,
it gave me, uh, uh, like time to pause and say, Hey, is this even something that can be done? Can I use
images to talk about this? Because the ones that I'm going, and you get into the game, I'm going to say,
you know, yeah, I, I, at first I was like, okay, how can I make the most impactful images? And the
ones that, that, that hit people in a very emotional way were the ones that were getting a
lot of engagement. But then when you looked at the, at the thread that was under the image at the,
at the discussion, oh my God, it was so polarized. And, and we're like, do I want to be the excuse
for these things to keep happening? And I have no answer for that. Like I really, I started being
aware of images more sure of what I wanted to do then, then, you know, many years later. I'm now
I'm like, uh, questioning exactly. I should continue this and how should I approach it?
That's brilliant. Um, again, there's so much richness there to explore. So
I want to talk briefly a little bit about my, my own history here for a second, for a moment.
Um, I was, uh, very pro computer. I was working with computers by the time they're first introduced
to public use. And I was interested in publishing music and education primarily. Um, but also graphic,
some graphic design as well. My mother was a graphic designer. And, um,
so I ended up accidentally getting a job at a printing house. I, I actually wasn't trying to
get this job. What I was doing was coming to the Bay area to drop off some of this magazine
I had published. And in order to keep getting unemployment, I had to be, you know, like I'm
looking for work. Right. So I stopped at this place and I ended up actually, actually getting
a job there. The guy was like, you're a computer guy. Right. And he was from Iran. His name was
Mansour Asadi. He runs a, I think he still runs a print shop there called Bacchus Press. And he's a
photographer. And, um, so he's like, you're a computer guy. Yeah. And they put me through some tests
and I pass with flying colors. He's like, okay, if you want to try this, I got a room full of like
20 grand worth of equipment. If you can make it work, you've got a job. It's like, I can do it.
And a lot of it was new to me. And one day he sat me down and he was like, so you like computers?
And I'm like, yeah, I think, I think they're amazing. I mean, I love working with machines you
have here. And he was like, well, I want to tell you a story about my family. Okay. And I'll try to
tell you as briefly as I can. Apparently, IBM gave a computer system to the Shah of Iran
to track dissidents with. And when the Shah fell, this computer system went into the hands of the
Ayatollah. And they sent out letters to students, to Iranian students all around the world. And they're
like, come home. Well, everything's forgiven. We'll give you scholarships. Just come back to Iran.
And so a couple of, he had a large family and they weren't immediately able to get in touch with each
other at this time due to the situation in Iran. And him and his brother were supposed to get on a
plane that day, but for complex reasons, they didn't. And his two other brothers who went home were
executed on the tarmac when they got off the plane. They basically just used that system to kill
everybody that they thought was a threat. So when I saw it, so this, this was a big moment for me,
because I'm, I'm very like pro computers. And he's like, you know, you should have a thought about
this for a minute and know something about like the history of my own family, because I lost like
three of my siblings, all kinds of other terrible things happen, you know, because of what, because
because they got ahold of people's social networks, they had a database of people's social networks,
right? Yeah. So when I saw Facebook, I was like, this is insane. What are people doing? They're going
to give their social networks to a corporation. I mean, first of all, why would you trust the corporation?
But what if the corporation gets captured by a fascist regime? Or what if, you know, like,
there's all these things where they'll just, they'll just use that data to, you know, white people
out or whatever, right? Yeah, you know, that's, sorry to interrupt you, but that's a great point. And
historically, you're right. I mean, we can see it. There's a reason why the United States helped dissidents
in communist Russia by, by introducing Xerox machines, because the printing presses are big,
they are bulky, they are noisy, and you know, who is behind them, right? Right.
The Xerox machines made it, you know, anonymize the whole thing. And that's why when people were
comparing the samizdats, which are these documents that were printed, these pamphlets that were being
printed with Xerox machines in Russia, they started comparing them to, to the Twitter revolution in the
Middle East, like, oh, it's just like the samizdats, like, no, because in this case, you know, exactly
the information of everyone participating in that makes it a very, very dangerous analogy. But, but
sorry, I interrupted. Thank you. That's absolutely brilliant. There's a difference between,
I think it's very, I think there are two features that are extremely important to human social
relationships and human cognition itself. And one of them is the possibility of anonymity. And the other
is privacy, the assurance of actual privacy. And both of these things have completely disappeared
in our culture. I mean, I have some, I have some plans around that. But, you know, I'm, I'm just
like you, in a way, I'm a, I'm a wild, I'm a feral activist, right? I'm, I'm out here on my own,
trying to understand the situation, and perhaps seeing, you know, what directions can we take it in?
Yes, the image thing. Okay, so there's a few things I want to cover briefly, and then we'll return to the
sort of more meaty, more meaty topics. And if you don't mind, I'd love to know anything you care to
share about the history of your literary, academic, and creative interests. How did you get started?
Tell us about your youth. Yeah, well, it's, it's a, I'm going to try to make it as concise as possible.
I would say, a lot of it has to do with my upbringing in Mexico. I grew up in a country that is,
that was colonized by the Spaniards, but that still has a lot of the original cultures and peoples
there. But also, I was, I was raised in within a Jewish family and was sent to Jewish school
in Mexico, where there was a lot of indoctrination and propaganda.
And then at age seven or so, I started having these very limiting epileptic seizures.
And I think this was a blessing in these guys, because these seizures would, would give me horrible
migraines. And I started, I took medication for these for decades. Part of the process was spending a
lot of time in the dark, doing breathing exercises and trying to fight the migraines by just, you know,
doing the breathing, but also being in, in very, you know, in a dark room with no noise, with no,
in, I think that kind of gave me a space to, to start thinking about things that maybe as a,
as a seven year old, eight year old, you don't think about very often.
And, and that included, you know, my religious upbringing and include my social upbringing.
And I became an atheist at 11 years old, which I think is not very common because of the sort of
questioning, was still made to, to do my bar mitzvah at 13, which I have to admit, you know,
it was great because of the presence. I was like, okay, whatever, bring the presence on. But I didn't
believe at that point in any of the other religious, you know, stories behind it.
And then I started getting very interested in, like, I don't even know exactly, well,
I know how I ended up in graphic design and it's, it's a ridiculous story, but I love philosophy.
I love mathematics and physics. Those were my, my primary interests. And, and I read quite a bit
about that when I was young, mostly it was science fiction. Of course, you know, the, the classics,
you know, Asimov and Arthur C. Clarke and all that, but being in, in a Latin environment,
I also got exposed, you know, to, to Mexico, for example, in Mexico, we have this author called
Juan Jose Arriola, which is not as well known as Jorge Luis Borges, but they are in the same,
you know, they write in, in, in the same vein. It's kind of like, they are both, I would say,
very influential for the magic realism that came after. And so it's, it's its own flavor of,
of science fiction and fantasy, if you want a very Latin flavor of science fiction and fantasy.
Um, I mean, of course I started reading as well, you know, George Orwell and, and other, you know,
international authors, Nietzsche. And at some point, you know, I was reading Ayn Rand
and, and, and got even, I would say, pretty, um, enamored with, uh, with objectivism and all that,
until, you know, eventually I realized, um, yeah, this, this, uh, um, this is, in a way,
it's some science fiction. I just put it that way. It's interesting to read it, but anyone who thinks
that you can live by, by complete, you know, selfishness in a super connected world, I think,
you know, it's a, it's a bit delusional, but, um, so how, how all of this ended up with graphic
design and art is, is, as I say, is the most absurd, ridiculous story, which is, I love music.
I absolutely love music. Like if you told me you cannot do art or graphic design or anything,
or you cannot have access to listening to music, I'm very quickly would get rid of my own practice
because I, I, one of the best things that, um, part of this whole thing that I went through as a kid,
it included, you know, I would play music that I really loved in the dark and that kind of calm me
down. And so I would, I consider myself a bit of a music explorer. I'm always trying to find new
bands and new, uh, you know, new artists and from all different cultures, different languages,
even if I don't understand them at all, I just like, I had like a period of like three or four
years where I was just like crazy about, uh, uh, Brazilian music. And, you know, when I was going from
college to university, I realized I can, I like to draw. I'm not great, but I like to draw it. I
realized, you know, I can draw and do these things while listening to music. I can't do equations
because I like math and I like physics. I still, till today, I love reading about physics and, uh, and,
in the way now that it's combining with consciousness, the way that the quantum consciousness is, is giving
us now these sort of new, uh, ideas about how we perceive the world. It's, it's fascinating. Uh,
so I still love those topics, but the, the decision was as dumb or absurd as saying, uh, you know, I
can't, this is a kind of work that I can't do while listening to music. And this is the kind of work
that I can do while listening to music. And so I ended up in, uh, in graphic design and arts just
exclusively because of that reason. Wow. Um, so this is something we have in common. My,
my, um, so first of all, I was absolutely fascinated by music from childhood. I wanted to be a singer.
Um, and then later, you know, when I started getting into rock, I wanted to play the guitar. I do play
the guitar. I can kind of sing, but, um, my, my first, uh, profound influences, the first actually
intelligent humans that I ever encountered, not that my parents were particularly ignorant,
but they were not, you know, they weren't intellectuals that way. So the first intelligent
humans I ever encountered were science fiction writers. And I was so blown away by them. I was,
I tried to imagine how they could possibly have minds like that. Like, what did, what would you have
to do to acquire a mind like that? Right. And I, I, I also was very, I was a very precocious kid. So
these people were so smart that I was pretty much certain that they were hiding information in the
stories. Right. But there was like something similar to encryption was going on and they would
occasionally use Latin phrases. Right. And this clued me in that there was sort of this extra language
that only the cognoscenti knew. Right. Like I didn't know that word when I was a child,
but I understood what they were doing. Right. I was like, oh, that's for the super smart people
that are even smarter than the, you know, the regular people. But, um, as I mentioned, you know,
I stopped going to formal school around the time I was 12, but I've read probably more than 3000
science fiction stories in my life. Right. So these people were the mothers and fathers of my mind.
Those were really my teachers. Um, and that led me on wild adventures and quests. Uh, I'm curious if
you were ever much exposed to comic books or what you thought of cartoons.
Well, I, I loved cartoons as a kid. Yeah. Um, and in Mexico, we didn't get too many. Like I, I have to
wake up very early and, uh, we had cable TV at home. So I would wake up Saturday morning and try to catch.
And I would say, you know, most of my English, even though I took English in school, I think most
of it, I learned it through cartoons, reading, uh, uh, you know, books, watching movies, music,
you know, like I wanted to learn the lyrics of, of the stuff that I was listening to. Um, but comic
books is, uh, I never got it. There was not a, um, uh, a big, uh, comic book culture in Mexico,
at least not where I grew up. And when I grew up, I might, I don't want to generalize because,
you know, I might be wrong, but, uh, but not where I grew up in the time when I grew up, I know that
now, you know, um, especially since the explosion of manga everywhere in the world and, um, in the,
you know, comic books are a big business these days as well. Right. Um, but comic books, from what
I remember in, in, you know, growing up as, as a child in, in Mexico were mostly like in the newspaper
strips and that kind of thing. I never really, um, I know that there was a, uh, um, you know,
a market for, for national comic books. And I, if I think about it and Calimán and some other,
you know, let's say local superheroes existed, it was perceived, I think like in much of the world
as a lower form of, um, of art. As was science fiction. Yeah. Right. Science fiction was really,
you know, sort of sideline, which I think is very strange, but yeah, I'm with you.
Yeah. But no, I, I never got deep into, into comic books. I have students that love them and
have been introduced to some really interesting content, but, uh, but I have not, to be honest,
like by the time I learned about comic books and, and could have gotten interested, I was almost
disinterested in fiction in general. Uh, I, I, these days I find like time is very,
it's a precious commodity. Yeah. I enjoy fiction. I'm not going to say I don't enjoy it because
I still enjoy reading a good fictional book, but if I have to say, okay, I wanna, you know, there's the,
the option of learning the new theories about, you know, let's say quantum cognition or whatever,
or reading a fictional story, I often end up going for the non-fiction, uh, uh, literature.
Yes. It's the same with me. It started to change in my thirties. I start, I, I began to read literature
actually in my twenties, uh, which was a totally new thing for me because I, I only read science
fiction or fantasy, right? That was it. And then I heard Sting singing about this guy Nabokov.
And so I got one of his books and then pretty soon I was, I had a book by Sartre and, you know,
it just, it just started getting weird. Um, but I don't want to get too far into my own history here.
I want to ask you, um, in your youth, were there any specific, did you have heroes? Were there people
who you looked up to and you felt you wanted to emulate? Tell me anything you care to share about
that. Yeah. Mostly they were musicians. Uh-huh. I, I love the, well, I, early on I started to, um,
you know, to get into, into, uh, music that the, the lyrics said something that I thought was
important or interesting. Hmm. So, I mean, maybe because now he has won the, the, the novel in
literature, I can include him in my literary, uh, influences, but Bob Dylan has always been a hero
of mine. Yeah. Um, I, I love his, uh, his poetry. Um, but yeah, back then, I mean, it was, it was mostly
I think musicians and, and also scientists, like, because I was into, into science and science fiction,
Asimov was, was a hero of mine when I was growing up. Um, and, um, yeah, I, I think, you know, Carl Sagan,
um, when the first time that I watched, uh, Cosmos, uh, because it was translated into Spanish,
you know, and it was shown in Mexico, it blew my mind. And so, so early on, I started to,
to think, yeah, these, these guys know stuff that I don't and, and, and stuff that seems really
interesting. Yeah. Yeah. You know, I want to learn more about it. So, um, so I, I would say, you know,
uh, yeah, those, those were the, the people that I looked up to mostly was like this, you know,
scientists and, and, and musicians. I, I love those, uh, um, those two. Uh, I, yeah. I mean,
a lot of the people that you've mentioned when I was growing up, I started reading as well,
you know, like Kafka and, and, and, and, uh, um, uh, you know, Schopenhauer and Nietzsche and all of
these, I, I, you know, I, again, it was like really, you know, compared to the scientists,
these guys were not trying to, I, that's what I thought. They are not maybe trying to find the
answer to the, you know, to the riddles of the entire universe, just the riddles of their own
personas. Right. And to me, that was like, I think that you can get from one to the other,
you can cross that bridge. And, and so this also this relationship between, uh, philosophy and science
that, that, um, uh, I think at some point they were the same thing. And then the, the scientific
revolution started to, to build sort of artificial barriers and silos between all of these different
disciplines. And I think now we're moving back to, um, to realizing what I think a lot of,
a lot of, um, ancient cultures kind of understood, which is it's all connected at the end of the day.
Hmm. Yeah. Uh, and you can, and you can reach answers from so many, you know, accessing them
through so many different, uh, uh, access points. Um, and so, yeah, I think that's mostly who I admired
as a kid. Hmm. Um, and what was your education like? What did you do? Did you go to college?
Yeah. All of my, my education was in the, um, Israelite school in Mexico, which is mostly,
you know, pretty much Jewish school in Mexico city. Um, I would say the experience was very formative
because it made me realize something that till today I find very fascinating, which is,
it's not about what you learn is about how you interpret it because, you know, let's say that
we had classes about the Holocaust, for example. Right. And a lot of my friends, any, this is not
just from school. It comes also from comments they would hear at, uh, you know, at home or whatever,
they would end up like, let's say hating all Germans or something like that. And I'd be like,
no, I mean, I listened to the exact same story you heard, but to me, the conclusion is very clearly
that, that, that prejudices are terrible. Right. So, so the same, yeah, the exact same story can,
can engender prejudice in a person or can take a person to say, oh, wow, prejudices, uh, uh, create
conflict and create chaos and create war. Um, and so that, that was, uh, until I graduated from college
and then I went to, uh, to university for a graphic design in, um, uh, Mexico city. And that was sort of
like the first time that, um, that I went outside of, of these cultural ghetto in a way. I mean, of course,
being in Mexico, it's a, it's a predominantly Catholic country. So it's, uh, I mean, you, you can't help,
but if you're, if you're curious and interested, you can't help, but learn about everything that
that. So I had friends that would invited me to like their celebrations, or I would spend Christmas
with, uh, uh, with, with friends that were not Jewish. Um, but yeah, going to university was the
first time that, that I moved from, uh, completely Jewish educational system to, to a secular one.
And I loved it. I mean, it, um, it was great to, um, just to be in contact with so many people that
were so different from me. And also, you know, fascinated, curious, learning all the time,
comparing notes, right? Competing even maybe against each other. It's a very rich communal
environment at any university that I, I think it's tragic that we don't have something more
commonly available, right? Where adults can get together and do amazing things or learn things
together. It's funny, you know, what, what do we have in our modern culture, right? We have churches
and bars and then there's school, you know, if you want to go to school, you can do that. But it's
weird that we don't have something more like the Agora or something. Right. And I guess the internet
is supposed to sort of be like that. And in some ways there's a piece of that happening.
Um, I want to circle back to something you said earlier about the difference between language
and images and how nuanced language tends to, um, get attention and, and be celebrated.
Whereas with images, you can do something that's very prime sort of primal, right?
Yeah, actually that's the one that gets the most attention and the one that are celebrated to, to a certain
extent. Yeah. I mean, um, this is weird because there are factions of the systems in which we live that
actually study this on purpose to specifically manipulate populations, right? So this is perhaps
always been true, but it's never been true to the degree it is today because now you can run vast,
broad scale experiments in seconds, right? And get data back immediately and just modulate your program
and, and determine, like you can, you can basically do, um, uh, gain of function research on information
warfare, right? In real time. Right. Um, so it's pretty, it's pretty scary, but you were talking about
eventually you got to the space where you wondered if what you were doing
was even, if you could even continue doing it, right? Yes. Because it was starting to produce,
like the stuff that you produced that engendered conflict got a lot of airplay and you weren't
there to engender conflict. You were trying, I think, if I understand your work, um, to some degree,
you were hoping to sort of shine a light on some of the, some of the problems and the dangers of the
systems that we're interacting with. And I had a series of similar moments in my own work because I
work very, um, intimately with language and I started to realize that negative statements,
especially if you tell someone not to do something,
if you suggest that something shouldn't be done, if you look carefully at the structure of the
statement, you almost always have to do the thing you're asking people not to do to make the statement,
right? Certain kinds of statements in language are auto-ironic and many of them have to do with
either criticizing something or indicting something. I could probably give an example at some point,
I don't, I don't have one on off the top of my head. Um, but even if I say, for example,
you know, language is an extremely dangerous thing. We have to be really careful with it.
Well, I'm using, it's the same problem, right? I'm using the language to tell people to be careful
with it. Am I actually being careful with it? Probably not. Right? Your statement is so simple.
Go ahead, please. Yeah, because I think that's the problem that, um, the statement, you know,
it reminds me of Alexander Dumas' statement, you know, all generalizations are dangerous,
including this one. Including this one. Yeah, because, but the thing is, usually if you, if you,
um, are having a conversation on oral or textual language, if you're exchanging emails or letters,
right, but with, let's say that oral and textual language, it's, it's rare if you have two interested
parties that it'll end with a generalization and then you continue, right? Visual language,
I would say most of the time, actually, it ends with a generalization.
And that, and the more that you have these conversations on oral or textual language,
usually the more that you tend towards the center and the more that both parties start to question
their initial position. With visual language, it reinforces them. So you feel like, oh, there's
not even a point in, in continuing this, this conversation. Even if there was a way of continuing
a visual, you know, a conversation exclusively through images as we do with, with oral and textual
language, even if it existed, which I don't think that, that we have actually an equivalent,
but let's say that we had it, because they are geared towards primal and visceral reactions
in, in towards making you more certain, not, not more doubtful, right? Right.
It would be a point of, of even having to continue the, the, the conversation in that type of, of, of
language. And I think that's why it's so, well, one thing I should say also is that the platform is
very important. The platform is very important because, um, in the case of Facebook or social
media, and you know, we call it a social network. I even have a problem calling it, you know, talking
about language. Um, we call it the social network is really a marketing and advertising network. Um,
if, if I run a business, I love this example, right? If I run a barbershop and you go there and you see
the same people over and over and you like to go there to get your hair cut because you see the same
people there and you, and you talk to them, that does not mean that the owner of the barbershop is
running a social club, still running a barbershop. And so who are the paying customers? The paying customers
of Facebook are advertisers and marketers. We, we are not the, the paying customers. The business that
they run is a advertising and, and, and marketing network. That is the actual business. We just happen
to be there and just happen to socialize there. Um, but advertising, uh, does something when it does,
when it's done well, what it does is it segments populations, right? So when we say, oh, why is this,
you know, uh, Mark Zuckerberg might, might say that, uh, you know, that polarization existed before
and yeah, to a certain degree is true, but we never had a network that was exclusively, you know,
with an algorithm automated working 24 seven in the, in the, uh, and I'm not saying that his intentions
were to polarize society. The intentions were to fragment it because if I'm going to sell you,
uh, people that are Republicans or that are Democrats or that are pro quo, not pro,
that like Coke or like Pepsi or like DC comics or like Marvel, it doesn't matter, right? The whole
point is that I want to assure you that I am giving you the right segment. So, so what we're
doing here is having an automated algorithm to who, and this is the whole, you know, thing again with,
with artificial intelligence, which I'm sure we're going to get to talk about is once we start, um,
outsourcing this to intelligences that can take so many, um, data points, work incessantly 24 hours,
seven days a week, nights and days. And we tell them, yeah, give me, you know, segment this population
so that I can sell it to advertisers that might not seem horrendous, but part of that is that I need
to reinforce whatever is going to help me assure the marketer that I am giving them the right people.
And so, okay, this person is already showing an inclination towards, um, you know, a particular
political view or commercial product or whatever. And, and the algorithm is just going to do what we asked
it that, you know, it's going to make sure that, that it keeps you in that, uh, within that silo and
that, uh, and that, uh, the, the owner of this advertising network platform can, can actually,
uh, will feel its legal obligations with, with, uh, uh, its actual customers. So in that respect,
I don't think they're evil, right? Like I, I don't think that Mark Zuckerberg woke up one day and say,
I'm going to create the, you know, most evil polarization engine the world has ever seen.
But that's the danger of, of, uh, of not understanding that computers are not humans and that
the way they work, the speed at which they work, the, the amount of data that they can process,
we don't really understand. Uh, I, I think that in a way Facebook is a great example of what could
happen if we go even further, right? Uh, if we did this through artificial intelligence is we have
to be, this goes all the way back, by the way, to the, to the, um, Syrian tale of, of Aladdin,
you know, the, in the, in the one thousand and one nights, uh, uh, the story of Aladdin,
which is incorporated later into the one thousand and one nights, but, uh, the story of the, of the
genie is kind of, uh, the story of AI, you know, it's a, it's a prankster in a way that, that
uh, you would ask for, for a wish and would find a way to, of giving it to you, but in a way that
would make you sadder, it would make you worse. Um, and so all of this, that's where I love fiction,
where, where they, you know, where they say, Hey, careful with this, careful with language, right?
This is a, this is a mostly, I mean, the genie story is, is a tale about language, right?
And about, about, um, unrestrained, uh, uh, desires and wishes. Um, I mean, it's a different from,
yeah, coming from a different culture, but it's kind of like the idea of, of a King Midas.
I want, you know, everything that I touch to turn to gold and poor guy, you know, starves and can't
have relationships. And, and so I think that these are all, uh, ancient tales that are super relevant to,
to algorithmic implementation of, uh, business agendas. In the case of Facebook, I think that
that's, it's a double whammy is it moves more to, why does it move more towards visual culture?
Because if I share a super nuanced 15 page article with you, you go out of Facebook to read it for 15
minutes. So you're not paying attention to their feed. Then you come back and you say, Oh yeah, I like it.
What did you like? You know, if the, if the, if the article is nuanced, they don't, they can't
now peg you into, into something specific, but images are great for them because a meme that says,
you know, abortion is murder. You, you very quickly, you know, uh, and viscerally react to it. I like it.
Boom, move on to the next thing. Right. So they have an invested interest in visual, uh, um, language
because it very quickly and very efficiently, the algorithm, you know, knows that with this kind
of language, it'll get as many data points on you as it can in the shortest amount of time.
Wow. Okay. So that's super important. Um, you know, I, uh, this, okay. Again,
this is so much here to cover, but, um, so I write, uh, a lot and I write about cognition, language,
culture. Um, and I'm, I'm an activist and I'm concerned with, uh, trying to help people to see
better and perhaps see both the threat landscape and the opportunity landscape that language,
images, and technology present to us. But something you said here is really important.
Um, if I, I could write something really amazing and it could be a single paragraph
and I'm capable of writing an amazing paragraph, you'll get like 10, 15 views, maybe, maybe none,
maybe two. Right. And we're going to talk about throttling because we've both been throttled by
Facebook, but, um, but I can like put up a meme or just a little video of a bird landing on my hand,
for example. And that thing will, you know, that'll get like a hundred to 300 views. Right. Yeah.
So it's obvious that Facebook caters, the images specifically cater to Facebook's, um,
sort of way of doing gain of function, human segregation. Right. And there's a,
another question here that I think is really important, which is that you might start out
trying to analyze market segments. And this falls under the rubric of something I learned from a
brilliant science fiction novel. It's not one of the best things I've ever read, but it introduced
some amazing concepts to me called Lexicon by, uh, Max Berry. And in that book, they, there's these
researchers who discover that there's a way to use language to, to cause humans to behave in specific
ways. And so what they do is they, they use, uh, an analytic process called psychography,
which we actually use. This is language from advertising to segment humans. And then once
they segment them, they can determine which kinds of what specific phrases will cause certain behaviors.
Um, so there's a real problem here for us because Facebook might've started out, you know, in a relatively
analytical or, you know, like let's determine who wants what, but I think they quickly realized that
that's not where the future lies. The future lies in creating who wants what not reading it, right. In
dictating it, in the, in reinforcing it. Yeah. I think because the thing about, about, uh, two way
platforms on like radio or TV, which were one way is that you have a feedback loop and, and you have
this reinforcement and, and it's logical that the algorithm would, um, you know, would want to
reinforce whatever it perceives as the segment in which it wants to, um, locate you so that be able
to sell you. Um, so in that respect, uh, I, I don't know why people, uh, are surprised, you know, that,
that this is happening. Oh, this was a platform that was meant to connect us, or blah, blah, blah.
And look at what it wasn't. It never was. Don't buy into the, into the, into the marketing of, of the,
of, you know, of Silicon Valley, because it's a, uh, again, it's very dangerous, you know, to, to,
to believe these stories. Like if you look at the actual, um, and again, I don't think this was with,
with nefarious, uh, um, purposes. Okay. Slow down though. Slow down. Do you know Zuck's history?
Because there's some nefarious shit in Zuck's history. Oh, right. The first experiments that
he did at his college, that shit was nefarious. Straight up. But I'll, but I'll tell you something
there. I don't think that this is a problem of Mark Zuckerberg or Elon Musk or, or Peter Thiel.
Oh, no, no, no. Well, no, these are the system that rewards ruthlessness. Yeah.
We have a system that rewards, uh, you know, carelessness, that rewards lack of empathy,
that rewards sociopathy. So I think if it wasn't him, it would have been someone with his,
with a similar background. Let me just say, like, it's, it's like, if I'm not going to ride this
horse, someone's going to, so it's a race to the bottom, right? I'm, you know, somebody's going to
ride the horse might as well be me and there's a mountain of money and power and all these things,
right? Of course, ride the horse, uh, make the horse find it. And by the way, the fact that, that,
um, you know, it didn't start it with nefarious purposes doesn't mean, uh, that people don't
get power hungry and then start acting. You're being way too kind, way too kind, right? It doesn't,
it's, it doesn't matter what purposes they start with. You know, Google's like, don't be evil,
right? Now they're like pure evil. It has nothing to do with what purposes you start with. What it has
to do with is can you be captured by money, power, you know, whatever, whatever the goodies are in
the sort of demonic, you know, continuum of, but we operate within a, um, capitalist system. So I think
it's, it's in a way, um, you know, weird to think that it could be any other way. Like, uh, like, of
course, if, if, uh, let's put it this way, corporations, legal, uh, loyalties, and I'm not
talking about whether the people running them are good or evil or not. Their legal loyalty is to
shareholders, not to, you know, not to the public, not to the, uh, um, to the society. And so I think
that unless we are willing to, to, um, talk seriously about capitalism and, and in capitalism,
particularly in the age of, um, of surveillance, capitalism in the age of artificial intelligence,
and, and, and, you know, dispassionately, I think that capitalism is one of these topics that becomes
very passionate because of the whole, you know, um, the whole, like, you know, cold war era debate.
And, and, and I see the only options where capitalism or, or, or, you know, a Stalinist
community. Right. Right. Um, but I think that, you know, if we, if we do it dispassionately, we have
to say, okay, something that served us, and by the way, this doesn't mean that, that, that the system
is terrible, but I think that, you know, something that served us a hundred, two hundred,
three hundred years ago in any other field, we have been able to deprecate it without qualms,
without saying, with, you know, without feeling like we're betraying some, like, personal belief
or anything like that. Uh, with the economic systems, in particular capitalism, something has happened
where, uh, has become so ideological, uh, and when you look at the practicality of it, um, let's say,
let's put it this way. It made sense, uh, when Wealth of Nations was, was written to talk about
markets and, and how markets generate competition, and it was a better, uh, uh, compared, let's say,
to feudalism or, or absolute, uh, monarchy, I think markets are a better system. And, and I mean, you,
you have, um, for a while, yeah, they were better for about a hundred years, and then they'll get you
killed, right? So there's a little span, right? In which markets are a good thing. And if you keep
doing it after that, you get a dead planet, right? You can't, we can't survive the ideas that underlie
capitalism. The reason that it worked is because the humans had not yet industrialized to the point
where they could rip the, the, the ecologies to shreds like moment to moment at a, at an exponential
rate. We hadn't yet like our population, our machine population industry had not placed us in a position
where we could render the oceans dead. Right. And now, and now we're way past that. So we're, we're like
that, uh, we're, we're like Wile E. Coyote when he's run off a cliff and he just keeps running. Right. And then
he sort of looks at the camera. Right. And he's like something wrong. Right. And, and that's where
our societies are, what we call our civilization and our, our nations, they're, they're, they're in
dead air. Right. And they, and they're just going to keep running because unlike the cartoon, nobody's
watching them. There's no, there's no observer going like, Hey, coyote, uh, have you noticed that
you're like a mile off the cliff in, in midair and there's like a huge, you know, there's nothing to
wait. I think that's a great analogy. And I think you're right. I mean, the, the point I was trying to
make is that, I mean, the, the road, you know, to hell is paved with good intentions. Even, even
the road around here, the road to hell is paved with high technology. Yeah. Which, which I think
some of it has good intentions or, or started with good intentions, but, you know, even if you think about,
about like the most, let's say humanist movements of, of, uh, industrialized Europe, uh, I think
they started with good intentions. For example, you know, the Bauhaus, uh, school of design, uh,
the idea of, uh, being able to do everything modular, uh, without ornamentation so that it was more about
more people having a house instead of like one king, having a super opulent ornament, ornamental
palace. Right. Um, but when you turn it into an ideology, right. When, when, when you put,
if you put nations before people, if you put religion before people, if you put monarchy before people,
it's, you know, when you say I'm going to put profit before people, the moment you start to, to,
to take a abstract collective abstract and make them more, uh, valuable or more important
than the people following them. I think that that's where the imbalance starts to happen.
And, and now, you know, we, we, we think that competition markets profit, you know,
we have to protect them at our own expense. Let's do like, we had to protect, you know,
the clergy at our own expense or, you know, whatever other system that, that we had before.
And so I think that that's, you know, in our preliminary conversation, that's why I was telling you
that I, I don't think this is a problem of technology, but this is a problem of the, of the
economic system that, that, that we like the umbrella economic system under which we operate,
because I, and I'm going to tell you something that I don't, I don't know that a lot of people
realize is that artificial intelligence might be, might be the technology that shows how absurd
capitalism is. Once, once you have the knowledge to make, let's say the best product or the best
whatever of anything, right? When, when capitalism started and I could make my product with the very
limited knowledge I had about that particular product and you made your, yours with the very
limited knowledge you had and everyone made their product with limited knowledge they had, then they
can beat it. You're saying it's going to kill competition. Well, it has a potential. It has a
potential to, to say, okay, now I have, I can take all of the data. Why would you want not the best,
you know, let's say smartphone, if you could have the best smartphone? And so I think that if we are
honest about, about, um, the, the, uh, how technology could bring us to a better world, I think is by
actually realizing that the time for, for, uh, capitalism as we've known it. So technologically
speaking is coming to an end and that we have two options. We can say the person that controls the
machines to make the best social network. And by best, I mean the one that, that can dominate,
right? It doesn't have to be particularly the best in the sense that I'm talking about with AI.
Let's say, um, I mean, these days, if we, if we think about Kings or Dukes or Queens or whatever,
in your, or, or show wounds, they were peanuts compared to, to, to, to the, uh, tech billionaires of
today, they, they, they usually rule a very small chunk of land, very small group of people.
Uh, these guys transcend, you know, barriers. They, they have created global, uh, so, so with,
with AI, we, we will have two choices. The one that we're choosing to follow and is the person that
monopolizes a certain technology or product, um, makes it impossible for competition to exist. I mean,
is the most, and actually it's the most anti-capitalist thing that's happening today.
And I would argue that we have gone back to feudalism. We have gone back to like a sort of
technological feudalism. Look at Facebook. We all get a little plot of land. We all get a little
plot of land to, to, to, to, you know, to raise our, our, our, um, our fruits and vegetables, but we
have zero say on, on how that plot of land is regulated, how, you know, it's, it's a, it's like,
it's a fruits. Where do they actually go to? And more and more, they're going to a very small group of
people. So, I mean, people that want to take these, uh, uh, technology, you know, companies
from Silicon Valley and, and defend them on their capitalist ideas, I think that they have lost a
marble because they have created, uh, basically a form of, of technological feudalism that, look,
people tend to, to, to confuse participation with democracy. You can participate, like people say,
oh, but these, these platforms are great because we can all participate. Participation is not governance.
And, and, and, uh, and, you know, saying that these, these technologies are democratizing this and
that, it's a bit of a Silicon Valley, uh, uh, you know, discourse. Um, if it's a lie, it's a straight
lie. Yeah. I mean, participation was actually, you know, the same as governance. If we, if we could
influence the system in which we were participating, then it might not be as much of a lie. And we can
influence, it's not that we have no influence, but it's more that the, the sort of the systems and
their owners determine which forms of influence we are allowed to, uh, to table. But I, okay. So
there's, again, we've, there's like so much ground to cover here, but, um, I long ago realized, and
I'm talking more than 20 years ago, that companies like Google were more powerful than the United States.
Now, I don't mean they have the military might of the United States or the GDP or anything like
that. What I mean is that what's been going on. So the first problem is when humans started to have
money, that was a huge problem because now you have this thing that overrode values. It overrode
relationships. It overrode tradition. It overrode your family. It overrode history. It overrode
everything about being human. Now there was a token that replaced it. Right. And they have,
in a sense, more power than, um, than any, than any human behavior or, or idea. Right. So
that was a terrifying invention and it was a slow process to invent money. In some ways,
money might've been the worst thing that ever happened to humans. Um, well, I mean, the, if you go by the
native Americans, the three devils that they call them was private property, money, and religion.
Yeah. You know, there were, there were indigenous people who used to trade these specific kinds of
shells. Right. I read it off this somewhere. It might've been in the dawn of every, or, uh, the dawn
of everything. I don't remember. Um, but anyway, they used to trade these specific kinds of shells,
but they didn't really get, they didn't care about the shells at all. The reason they traded the shells
is because they liked to go to the other island and hang out and like, you know, eat food and drink
things. And so the shells gave them, uh, a sort of a, a reason to, to, to travel, to go through the
trouble of traveling, right. To trade these shells and stuff. So the shells were sort of like an extra
side thing. And that's not so bad. Um, but once you have commodities, you're, you're in for hell,
right. It's just gonna, it's gonna burn the possibility space down of the possibility space
of humanity down to stuff that, that just stacks up, you know, tokens in banks or whatever. Um,
but what I wanna get out is that what started to happen and what's happening now. And I think the
common people are not very clearly aware of this, is that, um, human attention became the new commodity.
Right. That became more valuable than money. And so the first people on the ground there,
um, Google and Facebook and Twitter, I mean, it started out with things like MySpace or whatever,
right. But the first people on the ground there, they, those are colonizing systems and, and they're
not merely colonizing. They breed new forms of recolonization. They're like recursively
self-colonizing systems. And this is something that was impossible without computers. You couldn't
establish something like that. Well, and, and I think you're absolutely right because even,
you know, if you read, uh, Shoshana Zuboff's, uh, book on, on, on surveillance capitalism,
there's an analogy she makes that I, that I love because I think it's so accurate where she says,
when the Spaniards arrived to, um, uh, to colonize people, they, they, by law, they had to read them
this document called the requerimiento. Right. And, um, and this requerimiento informed them that
they were now subjects of the Spanish crown and, uh, you know, all of the, it informed them about
a bunch of things. It was written in Spanish. These people didn't understand a word of it. Right.
But they have gone through the, through the legalistic, you know, procedure of, of reading it
to them, uh, and, and people signed without knowing. And she makes the point that all of these, um,
all of these user, uh, terms of service that we just sign and sign and sign are not that different
from, from the requerimiento. They are written. Oh, brilliant. We don't know exactly what, what
the implications are, except instead of colonizing land, it's colonizing the mind. And our relationships,
right. Oh, there's so much here. Okay. So a few things I'll try to keep it brief because there's
a lot of ground to cover. So, um, these billionaires, these companies became basically
like gods, right? They're essentially gods. They have the powers that gods have and they're fracking
our minds, relationships, futures. They're fracking our family histories and they're fracking our progeny
who aren't even born yet. Right. They're just sucking resources. And if you ask yourself,
okay, this is the craziest thing ever. Part of what destroys humanity is
sort of the urge to turn everything into a commodity or money because it rips the environment
apart and it rips relationships apart. And, and another part of it is war. Um,
but strangely, one of the most lethal players in modernity is simply advertisers.
Yeah. Those, yeah, that force is what lost us, our privacy. It wasn't terrorists that lost us,
our privacy. It was advertisers. Right. Now I'll agree that the government, right. Uh, used, for example,
what happened on 9 11 as an excuse to become, uh, uh, absolutely invasive, right? Like, like unjustifiably
invasive, um, record every conversation that takes place is basically the goal or something like this.
Right. Um, so, so that was, that was, you know, 15, 20 years ago, 10 years ago. Now we're on the verge
of something that I think we have to take extremely seriously with the onset of AI, which is that
we are surrounded by devices that can, you're, I don't know if you remember in Blade Runner,
when they did those tests on the replicants, right? And they would measure pupil dilation,
right? So our devices are right now, right? I mean, actually, you can buy a little canvas for your
Xbox that can measure your, your heart rate, your breathing rate. You, you have these watches and
stuff. They, they measure biometric data about your body, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, right?
Yeah. Once you can measure that and couple that with surveillance,
it's over for us. I don't care what you think might happen. If, you know, with, with, with a coupling of
AI and biometrics, we're done for, right? If we don't do something truly amazing and beautiful right away,
it might even be too late, but even when it's too late, you still have to put water on the fire,
right? Even if you know the house is going to burn down, you, you, you keep, you keep working
to rescue things. So we need, in my view, to do something where we capture the data for ourselves,
and that stuff is somehow hyper protected, and we use it to help each other learn and form
relationships and form, you know, mission teams and things like this, which is a possibility.
There are things we could do that are different from what have been done. And I mean, I'll just
mention one other thing and I'm, I'm, you know, I'm ranting a little bit here, so forgive me, but
we're using the internet like the index of a book, and that's a dumb thing to do. We could be dreaming
in data. We could, we could have like graphic equalizers for, for data where we can like,
you know, you can create a three-dimensional data space with images and text and etymology. I mean,
we can do astonishing things that look like they're from 50 years in the future. The weird thing that
blows my mind is that we're using a browser that was invented in something like 1989, and it hasn't
changed since then, right? The internet has gone from like flat land to a, to like this, you know,
billionaire, billion fold hyper structure, and we're still using this window that's like flat, it's
garbage, right? And nobody had a better idea, really? So there's things, there are opportunities,
there's directions we could go, and I think we must go, because if we don't go there pretty soon,
if we don't have some really amazing ideas to chase together and establish technologies that,
that both protect our privacy and our biology, right? Because the mind is not the last frontier
that the advertisers want. They want your nervous system straight up, right? And this is why images
are so much more compelling. It's because they immediately capture your nervous system, right? It's hard,
you know, I think that when you say that advertising, you know, it's true, it has,
it has really destroyed almost every medium that we have. Because advertising is propaganda,
it's commercial propaganda, like propaganda has a negative connotation to it for a reason. And that's
why we try to give it different names, right? Again, the power of language, we try to call it
education, we try to call it, you know, graphic art, news, or, or, you know, whatever, you know,
training or whatever you want to call it. But in the case of advertising, it is just like you had
religious propaganda and government propaganda. Advertising is commercial propaganda. And if
we consider that these corporations have become stronger and more powerful than governments,
you know, there's no reason why we shouldn't be fairly worried about how they're going to use
propaganda. And the main thing about propaganda is that propaganda, propaganda wants to shut down
your critical thinking, right? That is, in a way, its main, its main purpose is that if art is about making
you confused and questioning things, propaganda is the exact opposite, right? It's about making you
certain. Like, I hate certainty. Because, yeah, you know, no, wait, wait, wait, stop right there.
Remember I said there's an example, there's an example of how language becomes self-ironizing.
When you say, I hate certainty, you're certain that you hate certainty. Yeah, it's true. Right? See
the problem? There's the example I was hoping that would come up. Absolutely. You know, it's true. It's
again, one of those generalizations that are dangerous, like every other generation, because,
yeah, in certain instances, I like to be certain, right? Yes, yes, of course. I think certainty is
very dangerous. Let's put it that way. I agree. And so, you know, in the case of advertising,
let me just give you an example. The thing is that we've been here so many times already, but we just
fail to learn. Like television, for example, if you look at the very first advertisements for television,
and you can still find them on the internet, they talk about a world where the, which I've heard is
about the internet as well, in which the educational system was going to be completely obliterated,
because why would you go and learn physics from like, you know, a nobody when we now could all have
the best teachers in our living room? Now, was that a possibility? Yes, it was. I mean, television had the
possibility of bringing us that kind of media and that kind of content. The moment that it was captured
by advertisers, that couldn't happen. That was important because there's no money in that scheme, right?
Okay. And so, I mean, I think that I'm with you on being really afraid of what is happening with the capturing
of biometric data and all that. If I wanted to be completely idealistic and optimistic, I would say,
if we, if we had systems that were taking all of that data to bring us better medicines, to bring us better education,
I've, you know, I would be willing to participate in that experiment. But I know that it's impossible for that to happen
under capitalism. Why? Because, look, it's all about what you optimize, right? Facebook optimized for segmentation,
so we end up with polarization. It's a whole, like, Neil Bornstrom paperclip thing, right?
If you tell the algorithm or the AI that you're optimizing for the production of paper clips, it's
going to go and mine the trace minerals in our bodies and everything that you can find will turn the
whole universe into paper clips. And people think, you know, that's a scary, that the scary thing is like
the terminator, these things gain consciousness. And actually, the scary thing is that they have
no consciousness, that if you give them a parameter that is wrong, and they can implement it fast enough,
then we don't actually know. It's again, the whole genie thing, right? We need to be very careful about
what we ask. But we do know for a fact that we have a system that is a program to optimize for profit.
If we have to throw away food because it's not profitable, if we have to, you know, turn systems,
media systems to trash with advertising because it's not profitable, we are going to do it. And
until we are, you know, honest about it and say, it's not, it's not the, the, the, I'm with you on,
like, really disliking the people that embody all of this. You know, I really dislike the, the, the, the,
uh, let's say, uh, the people that got to the top and it could have been them. It could have been
Mark Zuckerberg or the mosque or whoever else. But in a, in, in reality, we have a system that
doesn't allow for anything else. So it's a waste of time to kind of like, and that's what happened
to me with Beware of Images as well. I realized that I was attacking the, the, the, the rash and not
the infection, you know, it's like, okay, so I'll talk, I'll put, I do a meme that, that makes fun
of, of, uh, of Elon Musk, but I'll do a meme that makes fun of the people that I think represent
what's wrong with the system, but that doesn't really do anything because it couldn't have been
any other way. Like if we optimized for profit and that's the system that we have, uh, well,
that's the kind of leaders and the kind of media and the kind of food production and the kind of,
uh, everything that we are going to, uh, to get. And I think that for the first time in history, we,
we are, we might, I don't know what we might get to a technology that would allow us, um, to,
to make better decisions, much better decision. But if we say optimize for segmentation, because that
optimizes in itself for capitalization and for profit, we can't be surprised when the result is
polarization because polarization is other word for, for division and it's other words for segmentation.
So it's, it was a natural thing that was going to happen, right? Just accelerated by technology,
but natural. Okay. So there's a bunch of, I've got a bunch of bookmarks in my mind again. So the first,
the first one is the humans are trying to invent God, what could go wrong? Right. And the second
one is you keep saying this word we and us, and I just, I need to push back a little bit against that
because it's my experience that what's going on in our world is not human. Corporations are not human.
Nations are not human. Advertisers are not human. Those things are like, they're almost like demons. I'm not
trying to be religious. I'm trying to say that they have endless hunger for power, wealth. They
don't care about the consequences. If they kill people, they can say like, ExxonMobil can say like,
oh, you know, we're terribly sorry about what happened to the ocean, right? It means nothing
because there's no one there to be sorry. Those things are dead inside momentous processes. And one
of the things that you were saying when you were talking about Facebook, and we're going to start
talking about BOI at some point here, but I mean, this conversation is so amazing. I'm just having a blast. So
we'll go wherever we go. Thank you. Same here. Yeah. But one of the things, okay. So there are these
momentous processes that seem to sort of capture humans, and then the humans enact these processes
generation to generation to generation. And this is one of the problems with language. The language
that we use today is not like the languages of the ancient Hebrews or the Greeks. Those languages had
rich, profound, poetic, connotational manifolds surrounding the words. So it was impossible
to have like just denotation, right? That is A-X. That was just not even a possible thing you could say.
And similarly, the ancient peoples were aware of the danger of language and of letting language tell you
who or what something is, right? They knew that identity was negotiated in relationship,
and you have to let the language be on the side of that process and never let it be driving the horse,
right? And it's kind of similar with behavior. One of the most astonishing things I learned about
language over the past few years, and of course, I've known this subconsciously for a long time,
is that language is a way of structuring human behavior. Yes. And so are, so is images, so are
images. Images are what it was, you know, back to the beginning of the conversation, I was telling you,
I realized that my job as a designer is just to organize language, call it textual oral visual,
in order to affect behavior. Yes. That's it. Yes. Whether I solve a problem or not, that is completely,
you know, that is the, that is the BS of the industry. But in reality, all we do is we use
language to structure it in a way that we get the behavior that, that for whatever agenda reason we
are looking for. Yes. Okay. So one other thing I want to just briefly touch on, and then hopefully we
can, well, we'll go wherever we go. Our nation, this nation, or actually, let's call it the West,
right? It's not as much Canada as it is the United States. The United States is ground zero,
the Petri dish for gain of function, psychological information warfare. And the common people have no
conception of what they're being subjected to and how rapidly it's transforming what it means to be a
human being or have a mind. They're incapable. They don't have any way to understand the, the scope
and the depth of these matters. But we have become basically a lab rat for China, Russia, any other bad
actor, right? And it's primarily because we are not, the United States is not as,
our military infrastructure is primarily physical, right? And the other nations are way ahead of us
in terms of information as a weapon, way ahead of us. It's not that we don't have tech, we have tech,
right? But, but we spend, you know, like trillions of dollars on physical machines and, and soldiers and
stuff like this, right? Which is a dumb idea in this age, because the weapon of the future is obviously,
you don't have to fight someone who can't form up against you, right? Yeah. And so if you can just
fragment that your, your opponent, their culture, right? Which turns out that advertisers are the
perfect ally, right? My son was joking, except I wish it was a joke. He was like, you know, I think
the Chinese have figured out how to destroy America. I was like, oh, really? Someone, what were you thinking?
He's like, yeah, they just made it impossible for us to shop. They noticed that what we do is we shop.
So they invented TAMU, which is basically a mind virus that just destroys your brain.
I saw images, like I'm a technician, right? So I've been working with computers and technology
since I was, you know, 18 and I'm 60. So I saw like horizontal scrolls of images of objects,
like 16 of them in a row, you know, that you can scroll across. I didn't know what one,
not only did I not, not only can I not tell what they were, it was impossible to know what
kind of object that is. Like, is that a computer thing? Does it fix cars? Do you do something to
animals with this? Is it, is it cool? I couldn't, the category of the object was inconceivable.
And similarly, I'm not like necessarily just, you know, railing against China or whatever,
but go to Amazon, try to buy some socks or, you know, some cups or just about anything.
China and Amazon are now the same damn thing, right? Every, if you, it's like, try to type in
something like a pair of shoes made in the USA, right? Or anything. There's like 50,
100 Chinese products with 18 different names, you know, 18 different brand names or whatever
for anything you try to buy. So what I'm trying to say is like, we're in a situation that is very dire
and we're, you know, we're like chin deep. We're not, it's not like knee deep. We're in America.
Because, because also, um, you know, Marshall McLuhan has, you know, this famous
line, the medium is a message, right? And, and, and his whole point was people think that is the
content. People think that is whether you're consuming, uh, conservative or, or liberal media,
or, and he was saying, no, what matters is a great example of this is, especially, you know,
you that love language, when the telegraph came about, the economic system for, for messages changed
so much. Like if I was going to write a letter to you that was going to take a week to get to you,
and it was going to cost me a stamp, I was going to try to be as extensive with my language and
write as much and as florid and as, you know, um, basically cover as much as possible, right?
When we changed the, the economic system from stamp to by the letter messages through wire,
language changed dramatically, right? And so McLuhan was saying, it doesn't matter whether you're
sending a message that is, you know, let's say that the discourse is conservative or, or, or liberal,
or whether you're sending a, a love message or, uh, or, uh, you know, saying that someone perished
or whatever, the point is that you're using that new medium and that's what's going to change
the, um, the social structure, right? And, and we definitely became, you know, the, the florid,
you know, ornate language of the letter gave way to these very utilitarian form of, of communication,
right? Um, and so what you're mentioning about these platforms, what scares me is this, I don't care what
kind of content you're consuming. What I'm scared is that you are in a platform that is, uh, encouraging
you to, to have the shortest attention span possible, right? Because we are coming to a time
with global warming and, and with so many things, we're coming to a time where we have to have leaders
and not just leaders, societies and citizenships, citizens, citizens, that can, that can solve
problems that are super long-term. So we're going to have the generations with the shortest, uh, uh,
attention spans trying to figure out the, the, the problems with the longest, uh, you know, time
and periods of, uh, continuous, uh, continuum, right? No, it's absolutely, and that's the scary part that,
that we're all, and people say, oh, you know, the kids, the kids, everyone, adults. I mean,
the brain is, is very, the brain is very flexible and very, it has a certain plasticity.
It optimizes toward what it's, what it's subjected to, right? If gosh, you know, I, I, I remember in
our previous conversation, I was talking a little bit about watching the rise of the internet and in
the beginning, just email, right? The capacity to send a message instantly in, in text to someone,
you know, and how I watched that destroy my, my, I lost friendships and I watched people's
relationships be destroyed by it because they weren't ready for instantaneous communication.
No one was trained. And not only that, when you're reading some brief, which would then become texting,
right? And myself, because I, I became concerned about technology, uh, I started to become really
concerned about it in the nineties, particularly the late nineties around the birth of the internet.
I avoided having, um, one of these nightmares, uh, for, you know, a smartphone, what we call a
smartphone. I avoided that for until about eight years ago, I wouldn't do it. I just refused at a
landline, but, um, I watched what was going on with my friends and their minds. Right. And the thing
that people don't realize is that humans are incredibly suggestible and you can't exactly
tell them precisely what to do and make them do it. What you can do is prime them and you can prime
them in such a way that the next thing they see will trigger a behavior and advertisers have been
aware of this for a long time, but the people that run social networks now, especially with the onset of
artificial intelligence, you know, some of the, some of the, um, primary or some of the, what,
what, what I call them, the central, the central people in the development of AI, a few of them,
I heard a conversation between them and they were like, you know, it took, we went from being able to
play a reasonable game of go, one of the most complex games on earth to being able to play a master
game in about six months. So alpha go, you know, went from like crappy play to pretty mediocre play in like
three months, but then it went to master play in like two weeks. Right. Yeah. And not only that,
it went from to master play without us actually training it, just the rules.
So basically what they said was, you know, how, what, what, what does it take to get to alpha human?
Nothing. It's going to take us six months. It's not, it's, this is not distant future. This is tomorrow.
They were, they were actually saying like, as far as the United States goes, 2024 will be the last human
election. There won't be anything after that. Right. Um, because it will be, after that, it will be
trivial to determine the voting. Oh, okay. I see. I see. I see. To cause the, the, the election
electronically. And so this is part of why I'm very concerned. And I have, like I said,
I have some toys about what we could do instead. I doubt I'll get a chance to implement them. And
I'm not, you know, here to sing about those, but, um, we got to do something different than,
okay, actually the other problem is there is no, we, this, we thing it's the, we of, of, of a prisoner.
Probably it's like we who have no power and don't form collectives and didn't actually agree to any of
this except maybe tangentially to have the power to, to shape the future or to address the problems
that our species has caused primarily. We have to form intelligent collectives. Somehow we have to
teach each, we have to recover the capacity and possibly technologically to forming tell actually
intelligent human collectives. We have nothing that even resembles that. So when you say like,
we're doing this or we're not doing that, or we're being subject to this.
Yeah, no, I, I understand what you mean. We are being subject, you know, we are the subjects,
that kind of we does exist, but the we of people capable of changing the course of anything that we,
we've not established it yet. We have to somehow, I believe, find a way to do that.
Well, I think you're right. And I wouldn't know where to start because sometimes I feel that it's the,
it's so overwhelming, right? The, um, but it's not just that it's so overwhelming on a technological,
regulatory, governmental, you know, uh, field. It's overwhelming to see that so many people
don't even want to change it or don't even think that there's a problem.
Because like with any personal, um, issue, the first step, you know, I mean,
AA, you know, is the first thing they tell you, you have to acknowledge that you have a problem,
right? You don't do that. There's no second step or third or fourth or 12th. Right. And, um,
and so, you know, I, I, I don't like this, but I have become a little bit, uh, um, more cynical about
the whole thing. I, not, not operationally operationally still go and teach my classes.
I still tell my students what I think. I still want them to think critically.
Um, but I'm okay with the fact that, I mean, and this is going to sound horrible, but, uh,
I'm okay with the fact that, um, the time will come for, for, for, for everything that needs to happen.
Like, I mean, I remember reading, I think it was a Bill Brice book, um, that where he said, you know,
that in, in the time when, um, when oxygen was lethal for all life on earth, there came this little,
you know, blue, green algae that started doing photosynthesis and, and, and filling the atmosphere
with oxygen and it was terrible for every, you know, cellular, uh, monocellular organism that,
that existed back then. It basically obliterated them. And then, you know, billions of years later,
it was great for us. Right. Or, or it gave rise and it sounds horrible to put it that way, but
sometimes, uh, um, I feel like the only way to keep my sanity is to frame it in a way that's like,
okay, this is beyond me in, in, in so many ways. And, and, uh, I hope for the best and I hope that we can,
I mean, I, I look at, at, uh, previous economic systems, none of them ended with rational decisions.
They all ended with either, uh, some sort of pandemic that changed the power of balance or a war
or both in some occasions, a pandemic that caused a pandemic, zero, some games. Yeah.
And I don't know that we have, I mean, we are still very primitive in many ways, right? We have all of
this technology, but I think we have everything we need to make the right decision. I think we have
the data. I mean, and it's not, you know, I'm not an economist, but, but Piketty is,
uh, I mean, the guy, you know, who would have thought that, that, that, that a book on economics
was going to, you know, become a bestseller and win the, the, the Nobel prize. Uh, but we know these
things. I mean, people that know economics are saying, you know, this, this, uh, this system is
going to generate, uh, more degradation of the natural system. It's gonna, not only that,
it's going to create more inequality because of course, I mean, this is something that I read
on a Jaron Lanier book, who's another, another one of my heroes. I love his stuff. And, and, and it was
one of those aha moments when I read it, he said, um, network theory tells us one thing. And that is
that as a network grows and becomes more connected, power becomes more centralized. And you can go back
to the Romans building a network of roads or to the, you know, early tycoons in the United States
building a network of railroads or the TV networks, but radio networks, television networks, computer
networks. Yeah. Somehow we believe that, that the internet, the most connected and, and expansive
networking, you know, ever created. Oh no, no, this one is going to create democracy and it's going to
democratize everything. No, it's a network. Right. And, um, so we, we have the technology, like people
who are, I, I, I consider people like, you know, like Jaron Lanier or, you know, right now, uh,
Hinton, who, who won the, the, the, you know, weirdly wonder the novel in, in physics, even though
his work is in, in neural networks, but I, I like people who remove themselves from their industry
to be able to speak freely. Right. I put more weight on those people than on anyone who is currently,
you know, than Sam Altman or anyone who has a horse in the race. Right. And, and so if you read,
uh, economics, you will read the work of Piketty or if you read, you know, uh, in technologically
speaking, you, you know, you read Jaron Lanier's take on, on social media, on networks and, or,
you know, hint on talking about his ideas on, on, on AI. I think we know what's coming. Like,
it's not, it's not a, uh, uh, I mean, we don't know how to solve it. And I think the solution is
going to be, you know, multi-pronged, you know, in very, I honestly, I just wish there was a we,
there's not a, we, right. The thing that's solving it is, is the absence of a, we, that's,
what's actually doing the solutions is the absence of a, we it's these, I'm going to go back to, to,
to, to Lao Tzu. Right. Because I, I'm amazed that this guy lived, you know, 2,500 years ago
and that he so succinctly could see so many of the problems that we, and I'm going to say what,
you know, this idea of if you don't do anything, nothing is left undone. Basically the idea of
doing less, the idea of actually whatever is not necessary, remove it completely from, like,
you know, very often I, I'm, I decided to go full-time teaching, even though I had my commercial
practice because I don't want to do design anymore. There's already plenty of it. There's way too much.
I don't want to participate. I'm, I'm trying to remove myself as much as possible from any activity
um, that contributes to this craziness that we have created. And so I agree with, there's no, I,
more and more I'm very skeptical of the we, you know, NGOs and, and, and of the people that comments,
yeah, this is no, we're going to solve it this or that way. It's like, you know what,
we know what we need to do, what we need, we need to, um, to basically, if you are going to, um,
to tell me that the way of solving the plastic bottle issue is by now with this new kind of plastic
that is less cut full. No, I don't want to participate. I don't know how, I don't care how much
you believe in the, in this, uh, you know, I don't want to be mean to people that have positive
or, or the thing that have positive contributions. Okay. I think that almost every contribution at
this point, almost every single one of them is detrimental and it's a very hard position. It's
detrimental. Yes. Yeah. See, this is the thing. Um, I, I just need to ask a simple question.
Show me one case where technology saved us from technology. You got one? Yeah. Well, it's, it's,
it's, it's the, uh, problem paradox, right? That when you solve every problem has a seed of a larger
problem. And I think that, that there have been instances where, where let's put it this way. I
mean, if, if, if you solve the, all of the stuff that we solve for, for, uh, for, uh, medical problems,
for, for, uh, disease, if, if we solve, you know, we, we leave longer, all of that is stuff that at
individual level, we're all happy that we have, but all of them have the seed of their own problem.
Right. And, and so that's why I think that the more that we go to the old ideas, you know, the,
the Lao Tzu kind of thing that, that doing the least, and this is so, this is important because
it's so counterintuitive to capitalist mentality, right? Yeah. Like I, I have friends of mine that
say, oh, you are so unambitious, you know, you know, so much, you read so much. How come, um,
you know, I don't remember where I read this, uh, someone, uh, who was talking to this
millionaire or billionaire and the billionaire said to him, if you, um, if you are so smart,
how come you're not a billionaire? And then he said, well, if you're a billionaire, how come you're
not smart? Right. But I think that this is the, the problem that if you start saying, um,
that the solution is actually to stop even coming up with solutions, which sounds very crazy.
but that is actually to just stand back for a little bit and don't do anything. Just, you know,
it sounds crazy because we live now in a capitalist world where, where, where that is just your own
ambitious. You're just jealous of the people that are doing those, you know, those who can't do teach,
you know, I've heard that from friends of mine because I'm a teacher and, and there's so much stigma
about, uh, about being passive and about not being ambitious and about not wanting to do the next big
thing that I think it's because the next big thing in your mind can be something that is,
that it's positive and it's going to bring its own problem. I can assure you like the, the more
that we keep thinking that we have to, to, to act like, uh, like computers and do more and more and
more and more and multitask, you know, like this BS of multitasking that drives me crazy when I see the
students, you know, oh, I multitask. It's like, no, that's a term that comes from, from computer
processors. They can multitask. We cannot, like, what you're doing is half-assing five different
things. Right. As long as you're clear on that, that you're half-assing five different things, okay.
Don't call it multitasking. Call it half-assing. You're not multitasking. Your brain is actually not doing the
five things at the same time. Yeah. Call it frag, fragment tax tax. Uh, yeah. A fragment task. All right.
So there's, I think, I hope actually that you and I may have another conversation in the near future,
but before we wind up for today, let's talk a little bit about the BOI. How did you, what was in your mind
when you started doing that on Facebook? Remember I started, I got on Facebook to study it because I
thought this was dangerous. Yeah. So I wasn't there to, like, meet people. I wanted to see, like, I
wanted to be on the inside of the enemy terrain. So yeah, talk to me about Beware of Images and how
that got started. Well, I was excited with Beware of Images when I started because I started in 2011.
Facebook had not even moved to, uh, to promoted posts and to advert, to formally, you know, being an
advertising platform. Right. At that time, believe it or not, at that time I was reaching with every post,
maybe 30%, 40% of my subscriber, subscriber base. And then what was the size of your base?
What was the size of the base? Um, I think before they, they moved on to, to promoted posts or boosted
posts, um, I had about a hundred thousand. The page grew super fast because the content was, I think the
content, the content had quality. It was an important thing. And back then I was able to reach my audience
because, you know, Facebook had not basically destroyed its own, uh, uh, uh, or created a
problem to be able to sell you the solution. Right. Um, and so, and so at that time I was very
excited. I was excited that my plan was okay. I want to talk about media literacy. It's something
that has always been, um, dear to my heart. I, I kind of think that every problem we have
is actually an education or media literacy problem. We're on the same page there. Yeah. And so I thought,
you know, if we can solve this, then we can have intelligent conversations about everything else.
So I was happy about that. Uh, when, when, um, the promoted post started to, you know, to happen,
the, the limitation of reaching, uh, the audience started to become like drastic, right? Like I went
from 30% of, uh, reaching 30% of my audience to, I mean, the last, uh, I checked, I'm reaching probably
a 0.02%. So it's terrible. Um, but yeah, I mean, I tried to, to negotiate this. I wrote an open
letter to Mark Zuckerberg, which was picked up by, uh, the online version of Wired magazine and by George
Takei and by films for action as well. And other pages were shared this, this, uh, open letter and
it was not in any way, uh, you know, bellicose or, or militant. It was just saying, Hey, you know,
I was hoping to be able to say, look, I understand why you're doing this, but if you don't make the
distinction, my main point was, if you don't make the distinction between pages that are community
pages and pages that are corporate pages, this is going to, to become another, you know, um,
pay to speak platform basically. Right. And I said that happened with radio, that happened with
television, that happened with newspapers, even before that, and it, and it destroyed every one
of those meetings. Right. And I thought, okay, maybe these will, will have a positive effect.
It had the exact opposite effect after, um, I think if it had not been picked up by Wired and had not
been picked up by George Takei and other pages, maybe no one had done anything. But right after that,
my page started to be castigated severely, uh, criticizing Facebook obviously was not a thing
that, that you did, uh, on Facebook. Right. And, and again, the critic was, the criticism was very,
very, um, mild. And actually it was mostly like, uh, Hey, think about this, right? Look at, at, at, uh,
what might happen with implementing, uh, pay to post kind of schemes. I just want to ask you briefly,
briefly, can we get a copy of this letter? Do you have a link or anything? Yeah. I'll, I'll send you,
I'll send you a link. Okay. Keep going. And then, so I got contacted by people, for example,
there was a page that we're doing great finding homes for, for dogs, for pets in general. I think
they also have cats and they do it completely voluntarily. Right. Uh, when Facebook implemented
the pay to, to speak, uh, um, you know, model, they were saying like, like, this is affecting,
like, like we can't place now these pets in homes. Right. And we don't have money to pay. I'm a,
I'm a teacher. I'm an educator. I don't have money to, uh, to pay for, for posts because on top of it,
I'm not selling a product. So, right. So I think that the most horrible thing that they did at that
time was not considering that this was not a, this was not television, right? This was a platform
where people were already having two way conversations with, you know, with people that
they care about and pages that they care about that were not commercial entities. And the fact
that, that they rejected completely to treat community pages, altruistic pages, pages for, for,
for, uh, um, you know, that basically we're serving a community in, in, in have zero this
distinction between those pages and commercial corporate pages, I think was, you know, a horrible
mistake, uh, because, you know, what happens is that now, no, none of these pages can exist on
Facebook. I mean, there's my page is still there, but it's useless. It's, it's, it's a scorched earth.
It's a scorched earth policy, right? We're just going to burn down everything that isn't paying us.
We'll just, we'll just, you know, level that stuff down to the ground. So it started out as this
vibrant, much like the internet, by the way, right? The internet kind of underwent a very similar,
Facebook's process was very similar to what happened to the internet. Once it's colonized by
advertisers, right? It's game over for anything resembling the altruistic or intelligent or communal,
you know, I, I just going to mention briefly in the seventies in the, in the probably, I don't know
when it started, but in the sixties and seventies here in California, where I live, where I grew up,
we have this, we, we had a thing called NPR, which is like national public radio, right?
Yes. And here in the Bay area, we had KQED, right? And, and there were, there were, you know,
sister stations all across the nation. And so it, with this, there was of all the television
channels, which, you know, back then there weren't a lot, there were maybe 20, 30 channels,
right? When I was a kid, um, or maybe even less than when I was 15, right? But there was one
that produced educational programming, right? And at least until around sometime in the 1980s,
when the Republicans in our, in our country went after the national endowment for the arts,
and then they started going after education. Now, the Republicans always in our culture,
in modern times in our country, this used to be the other way around a long time ago, right?
A long time ago, it used to be the other way around was the Democrats that had a problem with education,
but, um, the Republicans say again, the party of Lincoln. Yes, yes, exactly. So, um,
they went after, uh, the national endowment for the arts and, and education, and they successfully
gutted it, right? And so there was no more funding for the single
channel that was producing educational content every day for, for people who watch TV. This
is way before the internet was even a thought in anyone's mind, right? Um, and then of course,
to survive, you can imagine what, what came next, right? KQED had to have advertisers. Yeah. And
who were those advertisers? Well, they were, you know, hedge funds and they were, they were not hedge
funds, but they were like, um, economic and, you know, uh, stock market, banks, cars, you know,
there were, it was just, it was ridiculous what you would see. Yeah.
Okay. QED. And that was like the last bastion, right? So it really is weird. What happened? I
watched it happen to your channel. I've watched it. I was observing it and it happened to other
channels like, it made me like, it gave me so much, um, anger and I generated so much vile and so much
like, just, you know, bad vibes about the whole thing. It was cruel. It was cruel. It was like,
we were not, I mean, you know, each in our own way, we were contributing meaningful, rich content to
to the system that burned us down for doing it. Yeah. Not only were we not getting paid,
right? We were just naturally like, we were like the microbiota, right? In a digestive system,
right? And they just like put antibiotics on us. I'm like, yeah, you guys, right? You just died.
We don't care. You mean nothing to us. We don't care about your content. We care about your life,
your relationships. You had, you know, what three, how many do you have to like 300,000?
At its height, the world of images almost hit 300,000 subscribers. Yeah. Yeah. And I used to see
your posts like rocketing up, you know, and I'd be like, yes, this guy, this is great. I love this.
Um, and I, I remember when the scorched earth thing happened, they just basically subjected
all that to radiation burn, right? We're just gonna like put gamma rays on that shit and kill it off.
Yeah. Which is incredibly stupid. Say again? It was as we didn't exist, basically. Yeah. And that's the
worst kind of censorship because, you know, if, if, uh, if someone censors you, at least you have
the claim, you can say, Hey, you know, the, the king is not publishing my books. This, uh, TV station
is not going to show my movie. Right. But this is even worse because there's the pretense
of participation. There's the, of, of, you know, of democratization of media. Uh, so we don't even get
the, the batch where we can say, Hey, we're being censored. No, you're not. Your page is there. Right.
Right. That's the danger of some of these, uh, by the way, this is the first time that, that any
network was charging for the advert to the advertisers, but also to the content creators.
I mean, can you imagine if on television, you would tell the production companies, we won't show your
mini series unless you pay us to show it. Right. I mean, on, on heard of, and they got away with it.
They got away with it because now if you want to, if you want to, uh, your media to, to be shown,
even if your content is not advertising, or even if your content is not commercial, you have to pay.
Otherwise you basically disappear. Yeah. Not only that. So essentially what happens just to be clear is
they serve posts to the newsfeed. And if you don't pay them, they'll serve nearly none.
They'll like, put it at, you know, we'll, we'll give this 10 views. Right. Or, and, and if you start
to actually get views on your own, like, uh, organically, then they'll throttle it back down
to make sure you pay. Right. Yeah. So let's just be really clear about what that is. It's,
it's basically like blackmail, right? Yeah. Right. I mean, you, you create any content you want.
Yeah. It's black. You create any content you want to create the most amazing content that ever existed.
We're going to make sure nobody sees it unless we get paid first. Yeah. And we don't care if you are a
community pitch. We don't care if you are finding, you know, homes for, for pets. We don't care at all.
It's like rescuing babies. Yeah. The moment that I share a post, uh, these days, as I said,
because it gives you the, the, the analytics. Right. So I know that I don't reach like,
I reach 0.0, whatever percent of my audience, but immediately it, it tells me, um, if you spend this
much, you could reach this many more. Right. And I'm like, sorry for the language. We're like,
fuck off. I'm not giving you a dime. Like, because you're creating content that you use to sell
advertising towards. Right. So you want, you want to charge for the advertising and then you want me
to pay to give you the, the, the content that you sell the advertising against. Um, and, and what's
happening is that it has become a wasteland, right? I mean, what happened to newspapers at some point? What
happened to television? Um, and, and, and that's the thing once you start, uh, you know, in that,
in that, um, letter that I wrote, I was saying, you know, maybe a subscription model would be the thing,
but there's not that much money. Um, there's not that much money in, in, in subscription. And,
and by the time that Facebook could have implemented a subscription model, people, it's very hard to make
people pay for something that was free before. Right. Yes. Um, so, and so I understand that there
were, you know, um, complications in, in implementing at that, at that point, a subscription model.
But I also think that, you know, I would have been very happy to, uh, I do it in a way and a lot of
people do it in a way with, with Patreon, with Kickstarter, with, you know, other kinds of platforms.
And quite honestly, if you are the kind of person who, who's not willing
to give a dime to get a content that it's enriching your life and that you find valuable,
I don't think that I want you in my, in my network, actually. I don't think that I want, you know,
um, like I'm very happy to support the, the people that I support on Patreon. I'm very happy to support
the people that I support on Kickstarter. And, uh, and, and I think that this whole, um, idea that,
uh, that these platforms should be free. We all know what it means, right? It means that we are
the product that we're being sold. Nothing is free. There's not, nothing, nothing, nothing as a
pre-launch as they said. And, um,
Yes, but wait, wait, wait. So now the effort that we put in to create content on social media platforms
is us paying. We're fertilizing their gardens and they're like, yeah, but you don't get to grow
vegetables here. All right. Keep, go ahead. Fertilize me. We don't care. We'll blow that off.
We'll, in fact, we're going to push you off to the, you know, we're going to sideline you.
We don't care what you're making. If you're not, if you're not paying us, we don't care that your
content helps, uh, produce, you know, the diversity and richness of our network. We don't pay.
Yeah. Which is weird. Um,
Well, that's what happens when you blur the lines between content and advertising, right?
And so that's what happened with social, with social media. Uh, it also blurs the line between,
between, um, human, actual human connection and, and transactional relationships. And,
you know, it creates a whole set of, uh, of issues that we have seen played out in the last decade.
Very clearly. Yes. The other thing that happens is that it pornographizes over time. It just kind
of becomes like mean porn and, you know, sex still sells a lot. If, if, you know, you don't have to
actually be a beautiful woman. You can just post pictures that pretend you're a beautiful woman.
And that will, you know, get a lot of airplay that might even somehow escape the throttling,
right? There's certain, what I'm trying to say is that there's certain segments of the market
that don't seem to undergo the kinds of throttling that you and I and ad busters and other, you know,
kind of similar stuff, right? There's, there's, well, in any page that I think is sending a message
that in a way is, um, anti-capitalist or that is, um, it doesn't even have to be directly geared
towards Facebook, which in my case it was, but, uh, but you can just be a page that, um, is, uh,
you know, inciting the, the, um, slowing down of consumption and that's enough, you know, to be
because, because, I mean, advertising is about consumption, right? And so I think that's the
dangerous, uh, the dangerous thing about, about what you optimize. I think it's all about what you
optimize. At the end of the day, the more that we move into, into self-implementing, uh, algorithms
or AIs or neural networks or whatever new technology might come in the future, the more that we move
into that kind of automation, it's all going to be about, about what you optimize for. And I mean,
we, we shouldn't be surprised if you optimize for, for, um, for profit and your only legal
loyalties are to shareholders. Of course, you're going to dump toxic waste on the river because,
you know, otherwise it'd be less profitable and your shareholders will be angry. And again,
I don't think that this makes every single person that works for these, uh, companies,
particularly evil. But I think at this point, we know what we need to do. At this point, we,
we understand how it works. So, so, um, you know, maybe, maybe, I don't know, uh, media literacy and,
and, and, and having these conversations and, you know, in my case, you know, teaching, uh,
newer generations of students can, uh, can have a bit of an impact. I, I am sorry to say that,
let's just say that I am, I am, um, optimistically apocalyptic. I, I don't know. I, I, I'm still an
optimist, but I, I don't, I think it's a plot. It's a plot of information that, um, that it's, it's,
people are, are, their systems are overwhelmed. And that's part of the intention with this plot of
information is to overwhelm your, your cognitive abilities, right? And your cognitive, your cognitive
defenses, right? Um, and it's, and it's happening and, and it's happening to people that I love and
they're not bad people and they're not dumb. Um, but you know, I don't know. I don't know if,
if, if we actually can, um, can do this. As I said, maybe it's one of those things that, again,
there's going to have to be some sort of, of disaster or war because historically we haven't
been able to, we haven't been able to say, Hey, this makes no sense. Let's change it.
It's not until something terrible happens that then we, you know, we start moving towards the
solution. No, it's funny because right now we're still in a, in a phase as humans, right? And when
I say we, I mean us humans, which we're not actually a we, but categorically we're one thing where we
have the luxury to do astonishing things if we are motivated to do so. And I think it is possible,
actually, there is a way to get, to, to give people something to do that's so exciting and, um,
enlightening and, and, uh, rejuvenating, right? That they really, that they're interested. They want,
you know, that they want to play, uh, at, at the game of being human in a new way.
Is everything okay over there? You know what?
I never realized that there was a message that says this, this thing, conversation is being
recorded. I never clicked. Okay. I hope that it is being recorded. Yes, I think it is.
I think we're fine. Yeah, I hope so. I'm always scared when we have, especially when I have really
amazing conversations, right? It's not like you have a tape recorder there and you can see that the
thing's rolling and you know, it's being recorded, right? It's like somewhere in a computer, somewhere
on a mountain, somewhere in the United States. And you know, I had a window on top of, of, of that
message and I'm just realizing that the message was there and I just clicked okay. And I'm like,
oh my God, hopefully. Yeah, no, always, I'm really nervous about that because especially when we have
a really amazing conversation I've had, you know, there's things that just don't get recorded.
Okay. So where was I? Okay. So what I'm trying to say is it is possible to give some, to give people
something that's so novel and beautiful and fun and, and vital and exciting that they just want to
do it. Right. And that's different from telling them what they shouldn't be doing or telling them
like, well, you need to educate yourself about blah, blah, blah, blah, right? If you just give people
something to do and be together, that's super exciting and fun and playful and they learn
and they feel like they did something meaningful with an hour of their time, you can captivate them.
Still humans are like this, right? If you give them a peach, they're gonna, they're gonna wonder like
why they've been eating rocks, you know, for the past 10 years. Right. So at least, at least there's hope.
Yeah. No, I think you're right. My, my, my issue is what happens when everyone is trying to give them
a peach or, or a cherry, or that's where I think that, you know, when I read, you know, books from
like, I've mentioned a lot too, a lot, but you know, there's tons of, of, of, of books, you know,
that are at least, you know, 1500, 2000, 2500 years old. And I'm like, oh my God, how did these people
got to these conclusions and to these realizations? And I realized that they got to those realizations
because they had time to contemplate. Contemplation is not the same as doing nothing. And that's what
we don't get sometimes in our current culture that, you know, contemplation is like playing tennis.
If you, if you, it's not that these people were, you know, because they were ancient, they knew better.
No, it's just that they practice, you know, if you practice tennis for eight hours a day,
you're going to be better tennis player than I am. So if you, if you're not looking for the next,
you know, pitcher or, or cherry or whatever, and you actually just do nothing, nothing.
Right. And we don't have opportunities to contemplate.
You had to do nothing when you were little because of your epilapse and you had to do nothing.
I think, you know, I was forced to do nothing. These days, you know, I used to think that those
years were terrible. I used to think that, that those years were like time that I lost or I wasted.
And now I'm going like, well, you know what, lying there in the dark, thinking about,
you know, about things that I wouldn't be thinking about if I was, you know, playing soccer or doing
stuff that a normal seven year old child should be doing. And, and, and by the way, it's not
something I chose. Right. So I can't even claim any, but I do think that, you know, later in life,
I did get into meditation and I did get into, you know, other forms of contemplation. And I really
think that that's what we need. I don't think that we need to be involved in a million things at once.
And even again, you know, if you, if you get involved in 20 NGOs that are trying now to,
to fight this other thing, you know, it's still part of the conflict is still part of like,
it's still not just saying, Hey, wait a second, I need to sit down. And I think the more you
contemplate, the more you realize almost every image, every design, every idea, every corporation,
every product is unnecessary. And it sounds, again, it sounds very anticlimactic, maybe,
maybe very unambitious. But at this point, you know, when, when you come to a conclusion that,
that you just can't see, you can't go back. Right. And so when I'm with people say like,
Oh, but you know, you're great at designing, why aren't you doing more of that? Like, because I,
because it's not necessary. Right. It's not necessary. So why would I do it if it's not necessary?
Actually, I think we should have less of all of these things. We know, I mean,
it's very important advertising, less NGOs, less corporations, let's, uh, by loss of
professionals, let's artists, let's every, let's everything we like do it, sitting down,
doing nothing but thinking is very under, uh, underappreciated. So, um,
you know, during the pandemic, a lot of things stopped.
Yes. And, uh, it was an incredible like nature, the animals, the plants that changed.
I watched it happen. I'm very in touch with living things and they, they transformed immediately
when the traffic stopped and stuff, everything started to change. And it's as if the earth
sent the humans a signal and the signal was like, stop doing things. Right. Stop.
I don't care. Don't, don't try to figure out what you have to do. Just stop doing things altogether.
You know, I guess sometime around 1980, you know, David Byrne, The Togging Heads, they had an album called
Stop Making Sense. And I guess America took that very seriously. Right. America absolutely succeeded at that,
at that, at that, at that. Right. Um, but, uh,
Yeah. So, but what you mentioned about the pandemic, look at what started to happen. Dolphins in the
canals of, of, of Venice. I, I went out on a jet ski, uh, pretty much right after the pandemic. And we
couldn't believe the amount of, I, I was with my wife. We couldn't believe the amount of dolphins that
we had around us. And the, and the guy that rented us the, I asked him, is this normal? He said, well,
it's normal for now because, because the pandemic brought them again, you know, out, uh, said, but
no, it's, it wasn't normal before the, and it all depends on what you place, uh, value on. Right. Like
to me, being able to have those experiences, to be able to see other species, um, and even to do
nothing. I've, I've come to the realization that it's one of my favorite things in the world. Like,
I mean, and by doing nothing, I mean like these kinds of conversations, having them over coffee,
meeting with friends, like being unproductive, you know, in the capitalist sense of the way,
uh, is one of my favorite things. And if you're going to tell me that that's wrong, well, I guess I
am wrong, but I cannot argue with my gut. My gut feels, you know, I feel, I feel great when I'm, you know,
just like meditating or listening to music or being unproductive in general. So, um, yeah,
I understand that, that a certain amount of work has to go into providing the necessities of life.
But at this point, the vast majority is not a necessity. The vast majority is just surplus.
We, you know, we went in, and here's the thing I think about, about what's happening with the
internet and probably will happen with AI. We, we didn't stop and didn't care about the surplus of
the material world. And now we're going to have a surplus of behavioral, uh, um, patterns and of,
and, and that's going to bring its own. Like if we were extractive about, about the physical world
and didn't know when to stop. And it brought tons of issues. I think that when we become extractive
about the mental realm and, and, and, and try, you know, corporations try now to create a surplus of
behavioral patterns is going to create its own kind of, of, of hell, you know, like, just like being
No, there's something I, there's just a, there's a couple of things and I want to get, um, I don't
know how much more time you have. I have as much time as you've got.
Oh, I have, I, I kind of cleared my schedule.
Oh, cool. Great. Um, but yeah, there's something I want to talk about briefly here, which is that, um,
imagine it's, it's back to the coyote thing, except it's much worse, right? Imagine that there's a
train, right? And all the human beings on the earth are on this train and the train goes barreling off
a cliff into the air. And because it's got so much momentum, it doesn't start to fall just yet.
Right. And this is what's going on. And the problem is there's not, there are no humans driving that
train. There's nothing intelligent or alive or human or anything driving that train. What's driving that
train are these dead inside processes. And they will certainly, if not interrupted, they will snuff this
planet like a match, right? They will just put it out. They, those processes are actually angry
that anything alive exists. They don't have minds. They're not exactly demons. It's just the nature of
these processes is to despise intelligence. And that's part of why you and me get, and people like
us got throttled on Facebook, right? It's just a natural expression of what I call, I mean, I have a
sort of my own nomenclature about this. I call them thrisps. These processes that ride on human
cognition. Yeah. But you could, you know, Dawkins sort of called the memes, but I thought, I think
what he was thinking about is fairly primitive compared to what's actually going on. In any case.
Yeah. So, these things will snuff the planet if they're not interrupted. Somehow we have to
just, just one correction. It is not this version of the planet, the one that we live in. It's not
going to stop. I mean, we went for, for millions of years, you know, with a planet that, that, you know,
took a while to recover from natural disasters from, well, let's say, um, drastic changes in climate or
drastic changes. Sure. Sure. Comet strikes. It's sad. It's sad that, you know, but sometimes,
and this sounds horrible, but sometimes I feel like if, if we end up doing that,
maybe all of the other species will go, finally. Yeah. Finally, these, these, these
fuckers are, you know, I mean, it sounds very, very, it sounds very, uh, uh, you know, uh,
what's the word, uh, when you misanthropic, right. It sounds very misanthropic, but it's not,
I love humanity. I love, but at the same time, I think that there is a certain degree of, uh,
you know, of egocentrism or, of, um, self-importance, right. In thinking that, that we are the,
the end of it. And, and, and I think that, um, you know, we have everything to make the right
choices. I think we do now, if we don't, there's going to be consequences. Those consequences are
probably going to be terrible for us. And it pains me because I have young people that I love. I mean,
for me, honestly, I'm like, whatever, at this point, I've had a good run. I, I, you know, I, I've come to
this conclusion that I can only change my own thought processes. I can only change my reactions to,
to people and to corporations and to the things that are going on. And if I get to change a few
other minds in the class, or if I get to change a few other minds through like one of these platforms,
that would be a plus, right. But at the same time, you know, uh, it pains me because of the young
people that I love, that I, that I know that I wanted to have a thriving and beautiful, uh, life
and a beautiful experience. Um, but they have to, first of all, stop listening to us. Like one of the
things I tell my students is like, we screwed up big time, right? Like we were the, me and my, in the
generations prior to us were the people that were telling everyone that they should smoke camels with
menthol because it was good for their throat. We were telling them to take, uh, you know, radioactive
bats because it was good for their skin. Yeah. DDT is good for you was literally an advertisement.
So they wake up and realize that it's, it's their, it's their time. And you know, if they believe,
if they buy into the whole thing of idealizing the next billionaire, the next, you know, tycoon,
and, and, and, and choose to go with those values is going to be very, very hard, um, to, to,
to become the, the generations that are going to do the right thing, or probably they will have to,
because again, we're going to find ourselves in one of those catastrophic situations that we have
found ourselves, you know, it took people in France to be literally eating rats and starving to go and
chop the heads of, of, of the royals. And before that, for, you know, hundreds of years, people were
fine with the idea of, of, you know, serving this nobility, right? And fighting for them, giving their
lives for them. So, um, corporations have the new nobility and the, and the representatives are the new
kings and, and queens. And if we buy into this, into this story, and by we, I mean, you know, as I said,
the next generations, because I think that, uh, that it's there, uh, it's going to be to their
detriment. And, and, and, um, and so I, I've stopped in a way trying to solve this because I don't think
I can not, not because I'm a defeatist person, but because I really truly think I can, I can do what I
can, and, and I don't, I don't think that, um, that I have enough mental, energetical, monetary resources
to go against, you know, this flood of, this flood is, is, if I go against it, it's just going to rip my
skin off, out of my body. I totally understand, but let me, let me just finish my previous thought,
right? Absolutely. The train is like flying off the cliff and the humans seem to think,
generally speaking, I often talk about the humans as if I'm not one of them. It's like,
I can also be like an animal, right? Or just a being, right? I'm not only human. The humans seem
to think that, um, you got to fight things that are bad, right? If something bad's going on, fight,
fight the fascism, right? Which you see where that goes. It doesn't generally go well. What actually,
more often succeeds in what nature usually does is she just branches, right? She just makes a new
direction to go in, which doesn't fight anything. And in fact, one of the memes on BOI that I saw today
was about this thing. It was like, I, I actually can't remember the exact text. Maybe, perhaps,
you know what I'm talking about. It was like, never mind opposing things, do something. It was
Buckminster Fuller. It was a quote by Buckminster Fuller, actually, who was one of my mentors and who I love.
Oh yeah. That if you want to change a system, don't fight it. Just propose a better one.
Right. And then you can, you know, that, that kind of stuff is still possible. But, um, I did have a,
I had a thread in my mind that I lost. So what I'm going to do is turn the conversation back toward
BOI for a moment, because I want to, I want you to talk about, so BOI grew,
then it started, it changed to pay, pay, you know, pay to be publicized model, then the open letter,
then it's very severe throttling. And then at what point did the movie get made and talk a little bit
about making the movie and also talk about some of the amazing connections you may have made through
this whole process. Yeah. Well, the, the movie was released in 2016, July, 2016,
and it was an amazing process. I had never made a movie before. And, um, this came through the
suggestions from students. Uh, this was a class I was teaching at the Vancouver Film School in a very
technical problem. Uh, sorry, very technical, uh, program. And I kept saying, these guys are learning
how to create images and how to create videos and interactive, but they are not understanding why,
or what, what exactly are they going to do with it? Right? So I said, can I have this class that it's
about that? And they told me, yeah, do it as an elective. So I did it as an elective. And in the first
time, because they, they named it, the institution named it, and they named it Visual Communications
theoretical approaches, which sound as dry as it, as it can sound. So the first time that it ran,
it had just, uh, you know, I don't remember, but very few people as an elective, like people wanted
to take animation or something else. But the few that took it started telling, you know, the, the,
the next generations, oh, this class is amazing. At some point, I think of like 28 students, 24 were
enrolled to take this elective. So, so they say, okay, we're going to move it to, to the, um, you know,
compulsory curriculum. And then, you know, it just became a class in the program that kind of discussed
all of the, um, all of the, uh, regulations and, and the social effects and all of the stuff that
has to do with media. And some of those, uh, uh, people, some of the students that took that course
said, Hey, you should, you should, you know, somehow, uh, get other people to, to, to learn about
this. So, so the Facebook page was created. And then from the Facebook page, one of my students
said, Hey, I will help you, I'll help you, you know, flesh this out. And, uh, and you know, then
he left, uh, he did an amazing studio in New York, but, but he kind of like pushed me to, to, uh, you
know, to give this a little bit more of a structured form. And, um, and so, I mean, yeah, it, um, it just,
uh, happened kind of organically from these suggestions and, uh, and before I knew it,
you know, the, the, the script grew just, you know, uh, uh, something that a lot of people
don't know is when I read the script, the first time it was almost six hours. Uh, the movie at
the end of the day is 14 chapters and it's two hours and 45 minutes, but that was actually cutting
a lot of content that, that was, uh, going to be covered. Um, and it was amazing. I mean, it's taken
me to, to, um, present it in, in tons of different places. One thing I did that I really liked was the
website when I released the movie had a fake, um, had all fake information in it. And when I was
invited to present it, uh, at different, uh, festivals or institutions, um, they say,
where can we get your bio in the, you know, in the story of viewer of images and say, well, on the page,
just look at the page and then check the links because I think you'll find them very interesting
just to see, you know, just to see how easy it was actually to, um, you know, to have people
do your bidding or say whatever you want them to say. And, and, um,
and so for example, uh, my bio said that I, uh, that I did that, that I finished view of images
or completed with beware of images, uh, in at Stanford university. Right. So when I was at
Stanford, I, I actually sat in the steps of Stanford and took a photo of myself typing, but outside,
right. Not in the class. If you click on any of the links, you would see that it was all a joke.
No one did like, it was crazy. Like even stuff that said that my previous, I did a small, um,
you know, let's say animated essay on, on the relationship between art philosophy and science
and computation. And, uh, and I, I said that this video was approaching 13 billion views,
which of course meant that every human on the planet, including babies would have
have to watch this video twice. Right. So absurd. And, and of course, you know,
it was approaching it right there. I mean, you can say it's not true. Yeah, exactly.
No, no, no, we're live, but I was amazed at how funny it was that when the documentary was presented,
these things were read verbatim from, from the website. That's awesome.
It wasn't, you know, kind of like, oh my God, we're kind of screwed because nobody really wants to,
to, to, to, to check any of this stuff. And of course, I mean, there's a trust thing. They trust
me and they're inviting me and I felt a bit bad about doing this, but it was part of the project
was doing this kind of experiment, right. It was doing this kind of, I considered Beware of Images to
be a transmedia experiment. So I was trying to see how I could make prove this point on Facebook
through the documentary, as well as, you know, through these kinds of experiments to see how far
something that is evidently, you know, a lie would be repeated and spread if it comes from a source
that, you know, you happen to trust. And so, so that's how it happened. And then, you know, I ran out
of money. It was mostly financed with help from friends and family, but then I ran out of money. I did
a Kickstarter and, and that kind of gave me hope again. This is the kind of platforms that I really
cherish these days, the ones that actually generate a community, you know, that supports projects that
they like. And, and so I, I think it, it's a, I think it collect, I, you know, I can't remember the
number. It was about $54,000 came through, through the Kickstarter campaign, which helped quite a bit,
but I didn't make a dime from the documentary, right. Like, I mean, I, it was a, and that's what
hurt so much that by the time that the documentary was finished, I had already been kind of killed
on Facebook. And my whole idea was, well, I'm going to be able to use this platform that I've built,
you know, with almost 300,000 people to, to let them know that the documentary now is finally finished,
that they can watch it. But by that time, um, I had already been pretty much ghosted by Facebook,
and I was not reaching almost anyone. Um, so that was, um, a very, um, frustrating and disappointing
turn of events. But the, the, um, the documentary now has kind of a life of its own and it's being
used by educators and media literacy, you know, instructors all over the place. And I'm, I'm very
happy about that. I mean, it's, I still feel like there, there are ways of reaching people and, and,
um, and asking them to think critically about anything, you know, and everything that's,
that's happening. As I said to you, I think that at the end of the day, it's all a media literacy
problem because it's all about what you read about things. It's all about what you see about things,
about the kind of, uh, of documentaries that you watch, the kind of movies, TV shows,
all of that at the end of the day generates, um, the, the in environment, you know, in which we live
in the, in all the other problems that, that might emerge from it. So it, it has been a great experience
and, uh, and, um, it, it had moments when I was really just very, um, very down about what's happening.
But I, I think at the end of the day, it has, it has been, even the whole Facebook thing,
it didn't go the way I wanted, but, um, but it also, you know, I think I, at some point,
I might have been a little bit too idealistic with, uh, with, uh, with current technology and
with like, say like the Silicon Valley ethos of, of old, right? Of like the, the do no evil Google.
And in, in a way it was again, just, uh, um, just a lesson. Hey, you know, it's look, we all,
we all, um, we begin something new in a, in a state of, of relative naivete, right?
And then especially if we have great success and your page had great success, right? It was very
popular in the beginning. Um, it got a lot of attention and it was, it was deserving of that
attention. You were like, you're sort of, you're doing this thing that I call like light housing,
right? You're like, you're putting intelligence into a system that is prone to keep lowering the bar,
right? And so you're trying to kind of hold the line against that. And fascinatingly,
you're doing something ironic and brilliant and provocative, which is you're using images to warn
people about the danger of images, right? It's brilliant.
I'm not sure what Beware of Images was attempting to, to do.
Yeah. And similarly, I, you know, in my own way, I'm using language to warn people about the dangers of
language, um, on Facebook of all places. Right. Um, but you, you were in your way, a pioneer,
a provocateur, you were, um, one of the early,
you were innovating in a brand new context. And for a while that ship sail, right? It was sailing
for a while. And so that naturally led you to believe that it could keep sailing, right? None of us,
none of us realize like back in the day, you know, I used to be able to post a YouTube video
on my, on my Facebook page and I get, you know, 500, 2000 views. If I post a video on my Facebook
page today, I might get 10 views maybe. Right. And they throttled all kinds of things. They stole
medium, right? They basically made notes, which is a medium clone. And so they've throttled anything
from medium even more than they throttled, you know, other stuff because, so there's like this
cascade. It's basically like a multi-layer cake of throttling that's going on in the sense. And it's
very tragic. Um, although I guess you're right in a way you were saying things like, well, why would you
expect free distribution of your media? You know? Yeah. I, I think now, um, in a way,
I'm like, yeah, it was obvious in hindsight, right? It was obvious that they just needed to find the way
in which they were monetize it in the most effective and efficient manner. And once they found it,
of course, you know, like with every other medium, like I did the documentary on the, on the history
of media and it has every example. So I don't know why, you know, I thought this is, this time is going to
be different and I think, you know, it can be different, but it needs to, it needs to be under
a completely different economic system. It, it, I don't think that, uh, you know, AI or anything
that comes after is going to, is going to, um, it's only probably going to, to speed up
the, the issues and the problems, and maybe we'll be able to, to realize them sooner. Um, but, but it's,
for example, you know, when it comes to, um, um, to social media,
I think it's still saveable. You know, I think it's, I think it's still saveable. I think it's
still like, we can still recuperate it, but now it's the hardest part is not going to be to convince
the owners. It's going to be to convince the users. And that I find more difficult, you know, like once you,
you, um, as I said, you know, it reminds me the whole thing. I, I mentioned the kings and people
fighting for them because the moment I post something and say, Hey, this could be better.
You know, this is like the, the, the, uh, fanboys come out and start like, it's like, how dare you
come criticize within Facebook or, or, or a lot of them see it as a criticism of capitalism itself,
right. Or, or interpreted as, as jealousy or as it's so weird because I think it's very difficult.
It's very difficult to, to, to, um, change the, uh, and as I said, I see it, I see this with people
that I love, right. And that are my friends and that I know they see me in a way, uh, and when it
comes to, uh, so one thing I haven't said in this conversation is when I was in Mexico, I was very
successful doing art for recording artists and we're the top recording artists in the Latin world.
Like I was invited to the Latin Grammys because of my work with, with recording artists. And I was
charging, you know, you know, we ridiculous amounts of money for, for designing the CD covers of like
these artists, because they were very big artists. They were all like signed to Warner or EMI or BMG,
all, you know, Sony music, Atlantic, all of the big labels I was working with them. And, um,
and when that dried up because of, um, because of, you know, uh, MP3s and, and basically the,
the relevance and importance of album covers being diminished to like a little stamp in,
you know, in Spotify, um, I, I said, okay, this, this set of skills, I can take them with me to
advertising. And I did advertising for about four years or six, uh, four to six years here in Vancouver.
I hated it. I hated every minute of it because the, the, the tools were the same, but in one,
in one, uh, instance, I was helping an artist, a musician, I love music. I mean, I, I got to work
with Cafe Tacuba who were like probably my favorite Latin band in the world. And I'm gonna help you,
you know, now reach more people and more people will hear, you know, what you have to say with your
music and that the tools as they were the same, but the experience was so different. And, and so I think
it's, you know, um, one of the people that I, that I work with is massive in the Latin world.
His name is Luis Miguel and, um, there's a Netflix, uh, you know, series based on his life and, and
through him, I, you know, I got to, to meet, you know, Placido Domingo and, and people that just
live with, you know, they, they build this compound in Acapulco where they all, you know, live together.
And, um, and so it was pretty amazing, but one thing, one thing I realized is, you know, fame is
not, it's all cracked up to be, first of all, I would never want to live like any of the, the artists
that I worked with, not, not being able to, to be a nobody in a way and go out and just live your life
is something that I never like changed for all the money in the world. Uh, but the other thing that
happened is that in a way having this initial financial success also, um, I was very young.
So, so the amounts of money I was making for my age, while I was still in a way, you know, living
at home was just crazy for me. Um, in, in these days, you know, I, this is still going to the
mentality thing, right? Like I, I feel like a lot of the people that know me in a way, good friends
that love me probably go like, you know, when did this guy become a loser? You know, it's like, you
have all the, you know, you have all these contacts, you, why, you know, why don't you
leverage that into something? And truly, I swear to you, Darren, that I'm not like, you know,
being humbled or, or, or it's just, I don't want to, I really don't want to. It's not necessary. Like,
I don't, I don't, I don't want to, I, I really need very little to, to be happy. I need two things
to be happy, music and books. And they're, thankfully, they're both very cheap. Yeah. So, I mean,
if I, if I can get my books at the, at the library and, and being in academia, you can get, you know,
I have a free, you know, Kindle account through, through the university. So books cost me close to
nothing. Music, you know, I buy the music that I love because I still want to, you know, Bob Dylan
puts out another record. I'm going to buy the record because I want to, um, um, but you know, young,
I have people that are really young. They're like, but why, why would you do that when you can get it for
free? It's like, because I want to have more of this. I want to ensure that I get more of this.
And you know, at some point it's going to dry up if, if nobody supports it. But at, at the end of the
day, I do think that, uh, we have to have maybe a, a, a gluttony situation and everybody experiencing
a certain level of, of success or of like, you know, abundance to realize, but I don't know if
the planet will sustain it. I don't know if the plant can sustain it. Right. Um, but yeah, it's
weird. Um, from like a mentality of like, I call it the rap mentality because hip hop and rap have
become all about selling the young generations on, on like brands and Lambos and, and, and, you know,
in girls and cribs and all of this kind of stuff. And I think that the more that we have this disparity
and the more that people that feel in their mind that, that, that they have scarcity or that they
have need idealize, you know, the people at the top is going to be so hard to convince people that,
that, uh, that we can have a better world. Uh, and that's the thing that scares me the most,
you know, that's why I was telling you, like, to me, it's not even about, about the Zuckerbergs or
Elon Musk's of the world is about the fact that these are our, uh, or so many young people's, um,
heroes and idols. Yeah. They think like that makes it very hard to change. Yeah. I mean,
what, what if your goal is to have like stacks of money and hookers, you know, to do blow on their
whatever. Right. I mean, or, you know, the, uh, a diamond studded handgun. Right. I mean, what,
what are you, what is that? Right. There's something really weird going on there.
There's a couple of things that I want to touch on related to stuff you've just shared. And the first
is that, oh, okay. Now I remember. All right. So yeah, there's three things. Give me a moment here.
There's nothing driving the train of the humans, right? What, what it's an empty, it, the, the car,
the driving car is there's nothing in there, right? It's just processes and it's, and they're highly
momentous. So somehow we have to get something into that car that is actually intelligent.
Um, I think that I, I often hear humans say things about the human population, right? There's too many
people, 8 billion people. It's just too many people, but I've never heard anyone, even really one person.
And I'm sure there are people who do say that there's too many objects, right? They're not,
they're not concerned about how many cars there are. I mean, look outside the window and notice how
much of the terrain is owned by automobiles and, and why are we fighting wars, right? We're fighting
wars for oil. What, what, you know, like we're killing each other's children in the future for,
for, for labrahinis, right? Or whatever. Um, so gosh, this, for some reason, this thread just keeps
escaping me. It's probably because, uh, I'm, I'm interrupting you and going on tangent.
You know, I have so many threads rolling. Usually I'm pretty good about it. Okay. So I want to go
back. It'll come back to me though. The train problem. Yeah. There's too many objects by far.
Um, but the thing that happens on social media and one of the things that happened, which is what,
what rap and similar art forms revolve around, which are a kind of pornographization
of the individual, right? And one of the weird things that's happened to our species over time
is this idea that we're separate people for most of our history. I don't think that was a thing,
right? That just wasn't a thing. If you were a separate person, you were a dead person or,
you know, you were a king, right? And so what, what social media and the internet has done
is it's giving people a way to sort of project a fake identity of themselves as a king, right? And
this is what the rap artists do, so to speak. Um, so it's a mall of personality. It's like a
personality mall, right? Everybody's an actor suddenly, and they identify the reason that people
get so reactive is that when they type something on Facebook, they think they're like the New York
Times or something, right? They think they're identified with the thing they're typing because
it's in the public sphere and that identification warps our minds, right? It messes many of us up
and it, you know, it damages the developmental psyche and emotional and physical beings of our
children. Meanwhile, that, that place is a, like I said, it's like a giant array of Petri dishes
for a wide variety of psychological warfare, particularly in the United States, because we
are, like I said, we're ground zero for every country that's testing this stuff, right? And
Facebook and Twitter and TikTok and all these kinds of things, they are the, um, they're the delivery
vehicle for those, for those weapons. Um, the other thing that, that occurred to me, which I think is
important at least to mention, is that as humans turn everything into representations, right? As we start
photographing our food, that, as we spoke of the other day, that has a, a really serious cost that
nobody's paying any attention to, which is that you can take enough, you can take so many photographs of
food that you don't get food anymore because something has to die, right? We have to kill stuff
in the environment to make electronic images. We're currently generating about 10 to 14 billion
simple photographs per day. And the resolution of those photographs is climbing exponentially over
time, right? So as those photographs, as those images are duplicated and transmitted and backed up
and reduplicated and shared, you know, on our smartphones and blah, blah, blah, blah, blah,
something has to die every time those images live. So you can see this process where the humans have
become so fascinated. Money was sort of in a way, the, the, the inception moment of this problem,
right? Where you have, you have the representation of value. You have the representation of a relationship,
but you don't have the re the relationship of value in it, right? Um, it's hyperreality, right? It's, it's,
it's, it's, it's, it's jambo. They are, uh, hyperreality in which you go to the supermarket and see,
you know, cartons of milk, of milk with, with, with cows, but those kids have never actually seen a
cow. Not only that, the way that this milk is produced has nothing to do with the farm depicted
on the, on the court. So, so your idea of reality and of where things come from, comes from the
representation and not from the real world. And that warps completely the way in which, in which,
you know, it's, it's hilarious. When I was a child, I remember, um, yeah, my mom used to cook us dinner
every night, right? And we had, we had a nuclear family, mom, dad, me and my sister. We'd sit down,
we'd eat the dinner. I, you know, I loved, I loved all the food. And I remember one night I asked my
mom, I was probably four or five. And, and, you know, my parents would occasionally mess with me
because I was a precocious child. So they would joke around with me and stuff. And sometimes I
couldn't tell if they're messing with me or not. And I said, mom, where does the meat come from?
And she's like, well, it comes from animals. I'm like, what do you mean animals make meat?
She's like, no, no, we, we kill the animals and then we chop them up. And that's me. And I was like,
no, no, no way. We wouldn't do that. Well, we would never do that to animals. No one would do
that to animals. You're just, you're messing with me. Right. And so later that week, you know,
we went to the grocery store and I snuck away from my mom and I used to be fascinated by the meat
counter. Right. It's all this meat. It's like packaged and that becomes dinner and all this
stuff. Right. And I'm trying to understand what it means to be alive in the world and as a child.
And, and so I went to the butcher and I said, tell me the truth. Are these, is this at all,
is this all chopped up animals? And he was like, yeah. I was like, no, no, no, it can't. Did you talk
to my mom? You said they have like a conspiracy or something that I couldn't believe that humans
would actually kill and chop up the animals and eat them. Right. Because I was so fascinated by
everything that was alive. And I still am to this day. I'm not, I'm not a vegan. I'm not a vegetarian.
I eat meat, but I just couldn't wrap my mind around the idea that the stuff that we would cook and eat
at night had been animals and that we had to kill them and chop them up to eat them. And there were all
kinds of things I couldn't wrap my mind around. Like you can't make a television.
Right. We have these things that we make that are totally impossible to produce for a human being.
It was almost as if I, it was almost as if my last lifetime was in like, I don't know,
8,000 years ago or something. Right. When we didn't have machines or anything. And then I woke up in this
body and I was like, zippers, like you, you can't make a zipper. Your life depended on it. Right.
Wrist watches. How can you even do that? You know? And so the humans have become really estranged from
what it means to be alive or to be an animal. And we're in this theater of representations and social
media capitalizes on the potential for every, every specific individual human to be like
a secret superstar somehow. Right. It's almost an outgrowth of Hollywood in a way. And it's,
it's so dangerous and dehumanizing to everybody. We're really, we've really got this backwards.
Well, we, you know, we, the prisoners of the systems in which we're enmeshed. But I, I love what you say
about what it takes to make you happy and how, how living a modest lifestyle,
which is something I've always appreciated myself. And I'm similar to you books, music,
intelligent conversation, you know, moments. Yes. Love, right. The animals and the plants,
the living places, the oceans. You know, when I was a kid, one of my heroes was Jacques Cousteau. I was
like, I want to be him, you know, and I thought I'll be a biologist. And then I, you know, later,
unfortunately, I, I met a biologist and he was like, no, you've got entirely the wrong idea. Right.
Yeah. You don't want to be a biologist. I go around chopping things up and looking at them,
you know, and figuring out how to kill them for the, for the, you know, the, for the state,
right. For the state department of agriculture. Right. I remember I was fascinated by insects. I met an
entomologist and he was like, oh, this is a precocious kid. So he invited me to his office.
And I was talking about all my fascinations with insects and I want to be an entomologist. Like,
no, you don't want to, I, I figure out how to kill these things for the government. That's my job.
You know? Yeah. So it's really weird. Um, and somehow we're born, I think with incredibly
brilliant, most of us, maybe, maybe even all of us, amazing, altruistic, human, and maybe even
spiritual in some sense, in the sense of having a concern for the communality of beings. Right.
We're born with these inspirations and what we're fed is, is like their corpses. I mean, just like a lot,
right. Um, there are still branches of human activity, learning, behavior, um, creativity that
are alive, but even those tend to get captured over time by the, the kind of system. And I,
and I understand why you say like, look, I'm not going to fix this. I'm like, I'm a guy, you know,
I have my family and my teeth, my students and my life and I'm not going to try to fix that. I'm not
going to try to eat the moon, right? I can't swallow the ocean. And if I try to do that, it's going to rip my
skin off. And I agree. Um, and yet at the same time, there are amazing things that even individuals
can do that can actually, you know, make a new branch. And if it was ever as important, right.
It's like, we live in a time when it might be the most important time in history for us to just,
I agree, let's stop producing stuff. Right. But at the same time, if we're going to have the internet,
if we're going to have social media and all these images, like I loved that you were taking the
weapon and spinning it around. That's so much in my same wheelhouse, right? You're like spinning
the weapon around to use the weapon, to teach people about how it gets weaponized and perhaps
what we might do instead. Right. What can we do if we were actually intelligently concerned about
these matters? And that's something that's what drew me to you right off the bat.
Oh, thank you. Well, you know, I think that
well, I should say, like, I hope I don't come off as a defeatist because I do still think that,
that we can do amazing things. And I think that, that, you know, very often is a few people,
you know, that, that, that change the world, you know, for forever and, and sometimes for the better.
Or even if they save some lives. Yeah. Sorry.
When it comes to, to, to images, I think one of the, like I've gained, again, in, you know, in, in,
let's say like the last decade in particular, a new appreciation for, for ancient cultures. And,
you know, I don't want to, I don't want to like, um, idealize them and say, uh, yeah, if you tell me,
yeah, but they also fought, they also killed each other. I mean, the Aztecs performed sacrifices. Of course,
yes, they, they performed sacrifices, but often the people being sacrificed wanted it because they
thought that this was going to elevate them to a certain status. So, I mean, we also have to read
previous cultures with, with, you know, not just with our, our morals and our parameters and our
cultural, uh, you know, uh, constructs, but, um, just like I was telling you about the, the idea of
like having time to contemplate, uh, when it comes to images, um, I used to think, you know, that some of the,
for example, uh, there's, there's tons of, of, of examples in, in ancient cultures, like, um, Jews
and Muslims, right? They, they avoided completely figurative, uh, imagery. And, and, and, you know,
I'm never for like banning anything, but I, I, I'm like, okay, why were these guys doing that? Right?
Like, what was their logic? Like, I don't want to be like, oh yeah, I support not ever allowing anyone to,
but I want to be like, why were they doing it? Yes, when you start to, you know, to read about the
logic, like, yeah, they, they, they were afraid that these would, you know, generate idolatry,
which is where we are, right? I mean, people, I, you know, have idols that they have never met,
they don't know nothing about them, actually. They, they have no idea what goes through their minds.
So, so that was one. And, and by the way, when, when, now I know there's a clash of cultures,
right, with, uh, you know, uh, uh, uh, the West and Islam, but I would say that, you know, having
been raised in a Jewish school, one thing that, that blew my mind is how much these cultures advanced
when, when they removed the, the, uh, the possibility of, of, uh, of figurative art and
focused on, on, on geometric algebraic art, because that generated, I mean, there's a reason why the,
the dark ages for Europe are the, you know, are the golden age of the Umayyad and the,
and the Abbasid caliphates, where, where you had the two top libraries in the world, being one in
Cordoba and the other one in Baghdad. And, and so I think that, that sometimes it's just, okay,
let's see, why were people doing this? And maybe there was some logic, like, for example, um, there
is Plato and, you know, in general, you know, the Greek philosophers, they considered art, including what
we call art these days, as, you know, mimetics and imitation and, and a facsimile of, of a facsimile
and, and, and basically delusion, right? They consider it a form of delusion. And then we go to
Mexico, where, where we have this, uh, we have this place in Mexico called, uh, Chamula, and, and the
Tzotzil are the people that live there. And, you know, it really bugs me because a lot of, uh, people,
Mexico is a very, um, stratified society where, where, you know, people, um, that, that are
descendants of, of Spaniards and of Europeans, uh, ruled the country for a very long time. And the
people that are natives have had the short end of the stick for the vast majority of the time since
colonization. Yes. And still today. Yeah. That that's everywhere. Right. But when we're
exterminating the, the remaining Shiopan Indians, you know, are just being exterminated.
Exactly. But the thing is when, when people go to, to Chamula, particularly people that, that, uh,
come from just their, you know, Western and mostly, you know, us in Mexico, mostly Catholic
understanding of the world, they're like, oh, you know, these people are so primitive. They think,
because there's not, you're not allowed to take photos in, in Chamula. Um, and it's very strict,
very, very strict. Right. And they, they have a concept called chulel, which is like, I mean,
some people think, oh, they think that it's still their soul, but they are, this word that they use,
it's not the Christian soul. It's, it's a completely, you know, it comes from a completely
different culture. And in a way, you know, I think that once you start to understand their logic,
you start to realize that, um, there's many reasons why they would not want reproductions of
themselves. And I think we're just starting to understand it ourselves these days. Uh, and they
knew it a long time ago. And, and so, you know, I, that's one of the things that I, I'm trying more
and more to do is say, okay, I, I really don't know anything. And if I'm going to learn about a new,
um, uh, culture or, or an ancient culture that, that I know nothing about, like, why were they,
were they doing this? And, and, and in the case of the, of the tzotzil, I was, um, very, first of all,
I think there's a modern aspect of it, which is anyone that takes a photo of them is not taking a
photo of them. It's taking a photo of a stereotype of a culture that they want to show to some other
people, which dehumanizes them like deeply. Um, but the other, the, the, the other reason,
which is something that as a young person, I remember hating autographs and there, I'll tell you
why, because, because I, I, um, I remember it very clearly, like having so much fun, you know,
with friends or doing something. And this is the time where, where you couldn't share photos, where,
where, you know, so there was a spontaneous, beautiful moment. You just needed one idiot
to say, oh, take a photo. And then everyone that had a camera, because back then you couldn't share
them online. Yes. And take one with this and take one with this. And all of a sudden you're doing the
simulacrum of the moment that you were actually having. And the moment is gone and is killed.
And now we just simulate that, that moment. So, so all of these things, you know, when you start to
think about them, you start to realize, yeah, there's a reason why other cultures had issues
with images. It's not just, you know, that they were primitive and dumb. We are in a way pretty
dumb in the sense that we have, we have a life of distraction. We don't realize these people
and some, you know, again, I don't want to like now all of a sudden just glorify and idealize, but
probably the fact that they had more time to think, she created a certain culture that we might
never know because now we are distracted 99% of our waking time. And we don't have time to think
about, about these things as deeply as they did. And I think when it comes to the use of images,
there's, there's a reason why cultures around the world have had issues with that. And by the way,
this includes the Christian church with, which adopted them wholeheartedly only through colonization,
because basically images were very useful to colonize people that you don't speak their language.
And, and so, so, you know, even, even, you know, the cultures that have adopted them or have embraced
them, at some point, they, they also had issues with, with the use of images. And I just think it's
very fascinating that, that, that it's not a new thing we've had, we've gone through these conundrums
and these, you know, sort of like questioning of, of the use of images and of art through
so many times in history. So, you know, um, everything you say is brilliant. I love that. I'm
so grateful to hear your perspective on this. Um, my son introduced me to an anthropologist named
Edmund Carpenter, and he wrote a book called They Became What They Beheld. And he wrote some other books
too. He's a genius. I strongly, if anyone is interested in these topics, please find Edmund.
And yeah, he's, he's amazing, but he tells the story of going to an African tribe. And it was
sort of a first contact thing. Right. And they brought a film camera with them and they took
pictures and they developed the pictures there and they showed people the pictures and the people
freaked out. I mean, they were completely terrified of the pictures at first. I mean, they were literally
like run screaming away from the pictures. Yeah. Um, but then pretty soon after that, they wanted the
pictures of themselves and they would wear the picture of themselves on their forehead.
Face book much. Okay. So, but it gets worse. It gets worse. So they had, um, an initiation ceremony
that involved ritualistic scarification of the bodies of the males. And this was like a week long
thing that would happen. I'm not sure at what frequency, but, you know, once a year, maybe more.
And it was absolutely forbidden for females to go into the enclosure where these scarf,
the scarification initiations are taking place. So they're like, they're scarifying their bodies,
right. In a very painful process, the ritual process. And, um, Carver and his team said,
you know, we would like to film this. And, uh, and, and the indigenous people said, well,
you know, all right, that sounds good. Um, who's your best photographer? And they're like, well,
it's this woman that we brought with us, right? She's our best photographer. She's the one who knows how
to do it. Like, okay, great. Let's do it. So they filmed it and they showed the people the film.
And after that, there were no more initiations. They just watched the film
every year. No more initiation. Just watch the film. So we have a terrifying vulnerability
to representation and even representation in language. The ancient Greeks weren't just merely
concerned about images, though they were, and they were also fascinated by geometry. It's very
specifically and importantly, this specific thing, geometry, right. It was super amazing. And the source
and, and a vessel for the conservation and development of all kinds of forms of intelligence
that die out when those, when that sort of sacred art is either lost or comp or, you know, it's,
it's, it's made abstract, right. But, um, they were terrified. You know, there were many philosophers
were very severely concerned about writing because it meant that you could meet people who had no
knowledge in the sense of an intimate participation in a culture or a tradition. And they could present as
though they had received the transmission ceremonially, relationally, communally when they hadn't, and you
wouldn't be able to tell the difference. And they, and also like there were, I had a friend who's a, um,
a Blackfoot beaver man in, and in the Blackfoot culture, he's one of my closest friends. His name's
Ryan First Diver. And in their culture, the, the beaver tradition is central to all of their, um,
their social, the vehicles for the conservation of their tradition, right. And we would, we might call
it in the West ceremonial, they didn't have this word. And by the, by the way, the ceremonial, this thing
relates to cemeteries and the soma and also seme, the, the, the root of semiotics, right. And, and those roots
come from a dead sign, right. It's the grave marker, the seme thing. It's a marker for graves
in Greek, right. This is where it's all the soma. They thought the soul dies. They saw the soul dies
into the body and it's trapped here. Like a, like a dead body is trapped in a grave. Now, I mean,
we don't have to get metaphysical here, but what I'm trying to get out is, um,
the beaver tradition. So in their culture,
their, their relationship with language is radically different from ours. They didn't have
writing, right. And there are many cultures that didn't have writing.
Yeah. Um, and they're very concerned. Their, their, their intelligence around language is
radically different from ours. They don't, they preserve an extremely healthy, uh, reservation
about presuming the identity of anyone or anything. Right. Whereas language tells you what something is.
I know that's a tree. Of course it's a tree. Don't tell me it's not a tree.
It's not a tree. Right. Whatever. It's almost like, you know, uh, this, have you ever heard of Alvin
Korzybski? Yes. Science and sanity. Right. Whatever that is, it can't be a tree. Right. It's not the
thing you say it is. And it's not just because it's not merely because the token is not the experience.
That's what most people say when they say the map is not the territory. Right. But it's not merely that.
It's that your relationship with situations and, and beings and animals and plants and places
mustn't be amputated by concepts. Right. Yeah. I think that is the main, that is the main issue with,
with language is that when you start to believe that, that the description is a thing.
And unfortunately, you know, we are very good in academia. We are great. You know,
believing that the description is a thing. And, um, and yeah, I, I mean, I think you can,
I think that's the difference between, let's say, um,
um, a scientist and a poet, right. I love that. Yeah, me too. That, that you can only know so much
about something by describing it and not falling in love with it. So exactly. You know, you can,
you can write about every component, every, but if you don't fall in love with it, you don't, you don't
really know it. And, and I think that's where, you know, no matter what you do, you have to have a
little bit of poetry in your life and you have to have, uh, descriptions that are not to understand,
but to, but to experience. Yeah. We don't have to understand everything that we experienced,
right? Like you can read a million books about love, but if you don't fall in love, they mean nothing.
And when you fall in love, it sometimes it makes no sense. And sometimes you don't understand the
idea that under that description is understanding is a very Western thing. I mean, try, I dare you
try to describe a kiss, right? Just someone you love, uh, you know, your lover, for example,
or your partner or whatever. Right. Yeah. And is there anything you can say? Is there any image you
can possibly make? It's just going to reduce it to, to something that is not, it's just going to take
away whatever magic it has. Yeah. You know, we wake up in the morning and we've had dreams,
right? And I don't know, you know, at some point, perhaps in the future, in a future conversation,
we may talk about this, but we wake up in the morning, you've had a dream or you remember a
dream, right? And so it gets translated into a series of scenes in a linear, you know, in a linear
sequence, right? Yeah. The resemblance of that to a dream is zero. It has nothing to do because in a
dream, there's all these extra dimensions of meaning and identity and felt sense. And, you know, my
sister can be a boy. It's not a problem, right? So in a dream, there's like this miasma of this sort of
an extra dimensional manifold of meaning. And I strongly suspect that our ancestors, what they
were afraid of was the loss of those extra dimensions, right? Because it flattens, it flattens
it and it kills time. It deadens time. It freezes time. And I just want to share with you something
that a friend of mine said to me, who's a really brilliant young man. He said, you know, he's a,
he's what I would call unusually minded. And many of my friends are obviously you are. I mean,
we were all unique in our own ways. But he said, there was nothing I hated more than we would be
on an outing with my family. And suddenly, we would have to take a picture. And I was like,
why are we pausing to take a picture of something we're not doing?
Right? What, what even is this? Like, what the hell is going on? We have to stop and pretend to
be doing something we're not doing for the sake of taking a picture of it. And in a child's mind,
that's got to be super confusing. Because I wonder what the indigenous people thought too,
when they first saw photographs, like, it must have been terrifying and weird and just wrong.
Because there's a, it's not that they, it steals your soul, but it freezes time. And it flattens
identity, right? It has all these weird features.
It makes you think that you know, the, you know, it's funny, because if, if, if, if, um,
Walter Lippmann, uh, or, or, or, um, let's say, uh, who wrote, um,
the work of art in the age of, uh, mechanical reproduction, that was Benjamin, right?
If any of these like Western people, right? Like if, if Benjamin says, um,
that capturing or reproducing a work of art steals its aura, it becomes, you know, a seminal paper in
the history of, of, of representation and of art. He's like, how is that different from what, you know,
these guys were saying, right? There's something, you know, there about how like it diminishes the
value. And of course now we understand that. Yeah. Like, you know, reproductions diminish the value of
the original, but why wouldn't that, why would that not apply to humans, right? That, why, to, to, to
animals, to, to all of the, and yeah, I think that there's something about, you know, about stopping
reality to recreate it in a simulacrum that is really, as kids, we, we understand that there's
something really wrong. And I think that our cultures understood also that, you know, what
you were mentioning about, uh, getting metaphysical, I would think it would be wrong if I didn't mention
that one of the, the, the things that has, uh, been keeping me, you know, more, most interested
or more interested in, in recent, uh, I would say, you know, the last couple of years and that's, I
don't know if you've, um, heard of, uh, of, uh, uh, Donald Hoffman. He, he wrote a book called, um,
it's called something against reality or, um, well, I'll, we can put it maybe in the comments,
but it's, it's, it's, it's a case against reality, right? The, the way he, he's a physicist
and in a way, um, this is one of the reasons why I'm also kind of saying, okay, you know, whatever
is going to happen is going to happen. And I'm kind of letting go of things because you start to
realize that even, um, even the, the, the reality that we see as valuable, right. And, and worth
rescuing and might itself be just some kind of delusion, right. And, and all the importance that
we put into it might be some kind of delusion. And that's why sometimes I feel like
like, um, uh, one of the, of the, of the best things probably that we can do is just,
it sounds, you know, it sounds too reductive, but like chill and don't think that everything is,
is, is so important because, um, this, and I'm not doing any justice. I'm kind of babbling and I'm not
doing any justice. It's hard to explain, you know, these, these, these, uh, his theories, but just to,
to, to, to kind of like given an, uh, an, uh, an analogy, it says, even everything that we
experience with our body is nothing but an interface, right. Our body is nothing but an
interface in reality.
You're right there though. Stop. Yeah. Whenever someone says something is just something else or
nothing but something else. You're right. There's a real problem with that. I'm perfectly willing to
entertain the perspective, right. Um, and I understand, I, I am familiar with this particular
perspective of both physicists and, um, scientific philosophers and also people who study the mind and
neuroscience and cognitive science. Right. I understand. I should, I should rephrase that as
it's okay. By all means, it's a kind of interface. The body is a kind of interface. Yes. And, and then
what, what, you know, him and, and other people that I've been reading recently are trying in a way to,
to, um, come to terms with is this thing that we've known for a very long time, which is the,
the collapse of the wave function, right? The idea that, that a consciousness changes, uh, you know,
by observing something, you change it. Right. And in a way, this idea that actually everything is
consciousness, right? It's not that consciousness changes realities. Reality itself is conscious.
And the body is just, sorry, the body is one, one of the, um, kinds of conduits or of interfaces
that allow us to see parts of these very, very complex. I'm going to this because you were mentioning
dreams and how there's all these other dimensions. And, you know, that's something that people
in, in, in, uh, Mexico, particularly in, uh, in, in, in, you know, I, I, I hate the thing,
the term pre-Hispanic because it, it kind of like sets that, like it frames them in, in something that
happened. They only exist in a way after, you know, spent, but let's, let's just for, for arguments
and say, or for, no, no, the, um, call it pre-Hispanic cultures. The indigenous South American peoples,
uh, ha, not had, it's not merely they had, they still have traditions involving
the capacity to both dream while awake and also to transcend their human aspect. Now,
I want to just pause here for a moment and go back to Greece because what this, uh, Hoffman guy
and others like him are saying was not unknown to certain Greek philosophers. What they said was
something like, I'm paraphrasing wildly, that it is impossible for you to know existence. You cannot
know existence. And the reason that you cannot know existence is because of your human body.
Your human body imbues your experience. Basically what they're saying is it's an interface,
right? They're like, you have a problem if you want to know existence. And the problem is that your
interface biases you. You have eyes, you have a tongue, you smell things, you taste things, you hear
things. There's tactile feelings, temperature, balance, um, hunger, location. You have more than five senses
by far, but those human senses bias you. So if you want to know existence, what you have to do is get
outside that. And there are ways of doing that. There are ways of getting outside the, the car.
One, one of the interesting, uh, conclusions of, of, uh, of, and by the way, this is not, um,
this is not proven, you know, he's trying to, to come up with a physical, like a scientific, uh,
uh, explanation for this through physics. And I think he's very humble about the fact that, you know,
this might turn out to be completely, you know, false, but, uh, but one of the things that I find
interesting is there's no such thing as the interface, uh, uh, sort of like capturing existence,
but there is no existence, but the interface in a way there's. Oh yeah. Yes, I see. You know what
I mean? Like the, the, uh, the, uh, independent reality with that outside of the interface doesn't
exist because it's all, it's all consciousness. And in a way, um, it's like, uh, the way I,
this is not his work. This is my, my own kind of like interpretation is like, it's, uh, receivers,
right? You can have waves and, and, uh, and a certain receiver might get better reception or might
get that completely different reception. That doesn't mean that, that, uh, that only those exist.
It's like, is the, the, the receivers can, can, uh, in the interface can, can, can, can have these,
you know, different perceptions and, and all you have is that like what you call react. There's no
such thing as this, that independent reality that you're perceiving. No, your experience is just the,
the, uh, uh, uh, uh, the interface itself is the way that in, in the other thing that I thought was
really interesting is this idea of just trying to, to reconcile the idea of the collapse of the
wave function and saying, um, well, it's all consciousness. It's not that consciousness changes
reality is that reality itself is only consciousness. And, and the, in the, and again, this is just my,
my interpretation. Like when I tell this to people and say, Hey, the moon is not there.
You create it by, by watching, it's like, yeah, but if I watch it from China and you watch it from Mexico,
we're both seeing the moon. And, and I think I found a really interesting analogy, which is video
games, because I say, look, if you look at the complexity of a video game and what it takes,
you know, if you were, if you had like a bird's eye view and could see all of the electric, you know,
all the ones in series, all of the complexity and not just the interface, not just, and you're going
to tell me that, you know, thousands of people that are playing Grand Theft Auto are actually watching
the same thing. Well, how, how can you reconcile the fact that you're all playing the same game?
You're all watching the same thing. You're actually, you're ganging up against other, you know, people
and, and, but all that you're going by is actually the thing that makes this thing fun. And the thing
that makes this thing manageable, because if you try to see the whole complexity of, of the flux of
information going on while thousands of people are playing, you know, a multiplayer, a, a, you know,
online game would drive you nuts. You need that 2D representation that makes you think that you're
all experiencing the same thing. And so in a way, that's how I try to perceive the, these, you know,
the, the ideas that I have read, uh, uh, you know, from Hoffman is, is that we have an example. We,
you know, it is very likely that, that, um, that there is a way more, uh, complex
flow of information and that all we have to go by and we, and we even like, um, uh,
you know, have this idea that we all live in the same world, that we're watching the same moon,
that we're having the same experiences. And, and, you know, it, it might be that all that you, um,
that, that you have is your interface. And, and if you have two interfaces that this describe the
same thing, you might think that you're having the same, the same experience. And I probably butchered,
you know, his ideas. I'm, I'm, I'm actually kind of at this point paraphrasing and telling you what I,
what I think, because I know that, that, uh, he's a fairly, um, strict scientist. And, and, and,
and I have taken some of these and entertained some analogies and even some, I said, you know,
I'm not religious, but I definitely believe that, that we, you know, we don't understand
one of one of, you know, 1% of 1% of 1%. And, and so to me, some of these ideas are, are, are just, um,
validations that, that, um,
it makes me happy. It makes me happy to say, yeah, I'm completely ignorant. And there's probably
a bunch of stuff that I don't, that I don't know. And it makes me happy to read people like him that,
that give me, you know, a bit more order to say, yeah, um, it's, this is way more complex. And at
that point is when I say, okay, this human experience, I want it to be as good as possible
for everyone. I want the new generations to have a great, I'm going to make the best I can when I teach
them. I'm going to do my best so that they have the best experience they can. Um, but at the same
time, you know, if we are not willing to, to, to, to meditate on what it is that, that, that this
human experience is allowing us to, um, to perceive and to, and to, and if we get trapped, you know,
in thinking that, that the interface, uh,
that what we see in our interface, right, is reality.
And we actually have a word for, for, for, you know, a word as absolute as reality, right?
In reality this, in reality that, or reality is not like that. When you say, you know, I don't want to
do this. Well, the real world is not like that. We hear this from parents and from everyone. It's like,
we have no idea. And, and I try to put myself in the industry. Like, I have no idea. I'm trying,
you know, I used to be very militant about first my atheism, then science. And, and so what I'm
trying to do, and then I hope this comes through with this conversation is that I'm, I'm not trying
not to help, you know, help us all have a better experience in this, in this world, but I'm trying to,
to minimize as much as I can, as I can, uh, having a militant position, even about the things that I
think are absolutely essential. And I think that should happen. And that I think that are
so important. It's still just, you know, based on, on such a minute, uh, uh, limited and partial
experience that I've been granted, you know, that, that I don't think it deserves it. I don't think,
I think that if I am able to have a conversation with someone and, and end up feeling like I,
that like, I developed a little bit of love for that person, even in, even someone who I perceive
as my intellectual opposite or enemy or political, if, if we can describe less and love more. And I
said, I know it sounds very cheesy, you know, but, but I really believe that, that, uh, even Aldous
Huxley, right after, after writing, you know, all these amazing books and, and there's a quote from him
that says it's, it's kind of, um, I don't know if he said humbling or, or absurd, you know, that all of
this is reduced to just try to be kinder to each other. Right. Oh, no, I absolutely agree. Okay. I
want to run through a few of the things you've said. So first of all, brief cliff note, um, collapse of
the wave function. We have no idea what's going on with that. So I mean, nobody knows. Um, and this is
something I followed. I follow physics. I work with a guy who's a neuroscientist who, uh, does
crazy math stuff and, you know, introduces me to a lot of different perspectives from physics. We have
long conversations about it. I just want to mention, listen to Roger Penrose talking about a recent,
you know, his more recent stuff talking about his perspective on this problem. It's very interesting.
Yes. And then a couple of other things I want to mention. First of all, he was a pariah for,
for even like daring to. Yeah. A lot of people said like, dude, you're a mathematician. Stop
playing neuroscientist. I get it. But actually his, his position is quite, his position is quite
nuanced and he is an amazing mind and I love listening to him. Also, you know, we're trained to
think that it is only the true things which are valuable, right? Things. If I tell you something
and you, and you can tell that it's not true, you should dismiss that. Right. Well, let me be really
clear about something. Prior to Galileo, that wasn't a thing. The ancient Greeks, what they were
on about was seeing better. They wanted things that helped them see better. And in case you don't think
that stuff that isn't true can't help you see better, take the entire oeuvre of science fiction
and just throw that away. Because none of that was true. Did it help you see better? Yes. Every time
you touched it, you got smarter. It helped you see better. Was it true? No. So men are particularly
trained this way. They, they use the sword of like, well, that's not true. Yeah. Okay. But is that the
actual metric of value in consciousness? No, it turns out that it isn't. And if you could only sustain
true things in consciousness, your capacity to be conscious would be shitty. Okay. It would suck
because you actually use all these features of dimensionalization that have nothing to do with
truth to understand the possibility of true things. Right. Which is, which is what Kurt Goodall
understood when he wrote his incompleteness theorems. He's like, you know, systems, formal systems,
have to have a hole in them. And if they don't have that hole, they produce wrong results.
And I mean, I'm not going to go into Goodall's theorems here at the moment, but a few more
things I want to say. Right. Yeah. We presume that we're separate. And that, and that presumption
is almost certainly wrong. We presume that we are separate humans. That presumption is probably wrong.
We are at least as collective as we are separate. This should be obvious to anyone who even wants to
glance in the direction of our humanity. This whole separate human idea is a relatively new thing,
and it's pretty stupid and dangerous. It's not entirely untrue, but it's highly problematical.
And then we also seem to think that we're in the intelligent species around here. I mean,
that would be like, I don't even know how to put it. It would be like the top of the mast of a sailboat,
thinking that it's the boat and the ocean. Right. We're floating on layers of biorelation
that are extremely sophisticated, without which we wouldn't have minds. Right. So we think, no,
I have a brain in my head. That's where my mind is. That's not what's going on. I'm quite sure of that.
And I'm saying things rather declaratively here, but I'll get to a few things related to what you're
talking about. Yeah. There is no such thing as reality. I don't think what I know what we mean by
that. Okay. This thing right here is solid. It's continuous. It's a fact, right? It's a concrete fact
that we can all touch and agree on. Right. Although I could just be, this could be an AI, you know what,
we're going to have a problem with that right quick, because we're not going to be able to,
images are no longer going to be proof of verity for humans, whereas they were pretty good for a
while. But what I'm saying here is we transfer the concreteness from our experience of physical reality.
We mistakenly transfer that onto the reality of thought, concept, language, identity, all these things.
That is a catastrophic cognitive error. It is the scope of the truth of the, okay, the truthfulness
of this at its scope is very true. But beyond that scope, it's not true at all. And so when we transfer
the expectation of the facticity of the concrete, the little part of reality that is concretely
dependable, when we transfer that over to the whole thing, that's when our intelligence goes away.
That's the end of the possibility of insight when humans do that. And we're trained to do this from
childhood. Language and images both function to train us to do that, right? They present us with
the presumption of the continuity of circumstance, meaning, identity, and so forth. But suppose that
that which is that which is, right? That which is, which is my way of saying reality.
The interface is that which is. It's not a separate thing, right? Any more than my hand is very trippy. I can do
crazy stuff with this, right? And if I, if I chop it off here in my mind, right? Then I think
it's, it's a separate unique thing by itself, right? But it, it has like this upstream link
called a wrist. And that thing has an upstream link to this, which has an upstream link to this. And this
thing has an upstream link to existence. So it's almost as if existence is personating
as you, right? It's personating as you, right? And there's all these invisible upstream links
that we're not aware of. And this idea of the collapse of the wave function, even Schrodinger
himself was like, that can't be what's going on. The cat, the whole cat thing was not him saying the
cat's in a superposition. That's not what he was saying. Do you know about this? Oh, no.
Yeah. He was, he was in a way being a cheeky or, or, or, or. He was being facetious. He's being
facetious, of course. He was like, this can't be what's going on. We've got this wrong, right?
The, the Schrodinger's cat thing, it's not into, it's not in a superposition. And by the way,
the cat's a macro thing. So it's definitely not in a superposition. It's a macro. And the macro
stuff isn't in superposition. And then, okay. Yeah. I think, yeah, yeah. That's most of,
that's most of what I wanted to cover about what you said, but yeah, you know, the universe,
the star and the world. Oh, actually there is one more thing I wanted to say. I may not be too sure
about reality, but I'm sure you're alive. And when I look in the eye of an animal, I know it's there.
There's like, there's a layer of beingness that I trust. And that's why I'm not willing to just go
like, yeah, you know, it doesn't really matter. There are living beings, there are living beings
and living places. And those beings are the, the existing moment of a vast history of lineage
that is alive in them in this moment. And those things are the most precious things to me, more than
ideas, more than anything. The living beings, I adore them with every fiber of my being. And I will
always try to act to rescue and preserve them. Even if I get them killed by doing so, which I,
it's happened to me, right? You try to save something or someone and it ends up dying because you
interfered, right? I get it. I get it. But still I ache, I'm alive. I adore, I love.
Oh, no, I think that that is, you know, if you have empathy, it's inevitable. And, and that's why,
you know, I, I, in a way, hopefully, you know, if, if, uh, AI ends up devaluing the, the, um, you know,
the weight that we put on, on intelligence and we go back to suffering in an emotion and feeling and,
and realizing that this is, um, what we need to preserve, because I mean, what would happen if,
if all life dies, but we have these non-sentient, super intelligent machines that can process a
bunch of stuff, I think the most important aspect of, of being alive would have been lost. And so
I'm with you on that. I think that, that, um, that's one of the reasons why, you know,
if we are going to, to, um, to optimize for something, maybe we should optimize, uh, for the
decrease and minimization of, of, of suffering, you know, and, and, and how we can create, um,
a society and, and links with our natural world in which, in which we optimize the well-being of as
many, you know, sentient entities as possible. Of course, I know that, that, that comes with its own,
you know, um, uh, issues. But that's, that's the thing, this is too big. I, I don't think,
sometimes what I feel like we were not meant to understand these things and, and, and we were not
like, um, I think there's a problem with trying to solve the world and trying to solve, uh, to solve
life and to solve, and not, not a problem in the sense that, that I don't want things to get better,
but I don't think that our mind was ever, uh, meant to understand this, that we are partial,
we're very, very partial, limited, uh, interfaces. And I think that my problem starts when I hear someone
with certainty saying, you know, be it a religious figure or an Elon Musk, you know, if we don't do
this, if we don't become, uh, uh, you know, inter, uh, a planetary species, it's like, dude,
you don't know, you know, you might have all the billions in the world, but you have a brain just
like me and just like an octopus and you're like, you know, other sentient beings. I don't think that
we were, uh, were meant to actually understand the, the, the complexity and enormity of this whole thing.
And in a way, you know, in a way I feel like, okay, this universe, as far as we know, it's been
around, let's say for 14.7 billion years, the earth for 4.2 billion, so much has happened in there.
And all of that brought us to this moment where we think that this moment is the one that is worth
preserving. And I think that's my point. The point I'm trying to make, why, why do we think that this
moment are these species are the ones worth preserving, not the dinosaurs and not the single
cell organisms. And at that point I go like, you know what, it's beyond me. It is really beyond me.
And, and, and maybe, who knows, I don't like the idea, right? But maybe we will somehow, like,
coalesce with artificial intelligence and become some new kind of, uh, thing that, that will evolve
in, in ways that the future entities will think are so much superior and that that is the one that is
worth preserving. And I think every, every, um, generation goes through, through that,
you know, thought that, that we are the end of it and we're the end of the line and we're the
ones that's worth preserving. That's where I think my, or that's a point that I've been trying to make
is like, I, it's beyond, like, it's too big for me to, to, to look. That's why sometimes I feel like
when people like Elon Musk are talking about, um, about becoming interplanetary so that we can save
humanity is like, no, I just want to save my relationship with, with, with Darren right now.
I just want to save my relationship with my students. I just want to have those beautiful
moments because I have no idea. I can't even start to pretend that I have, you know,
the slightest idea of what is going to be good for that. I remember watching this documentary where,
where, um, where, uh, Weissenbaum, Joseph Weissenbaum is arguing with, uh, with Ray Kurzweil.
And, you know, Ray Kurzweil, I, I respect them both, but I, I, I am on the Weissenbaum, you know,
camp because I find him more human, but I remember there's this debate and they're talking about how
they're gonna, uh, you know, make us like super, uh, longevity and, and, and have, you know, 500 year
lifespans and all of this stuff. And, and someone says, yes, and we're going to do this for the future
generations. And Joseph Weissenbaum has, to me, one of the best answers that I have ever heard,
because it says, do you really want to do something good for the next generations? Like,
yes, die. Leave them the space, leave them the resources, leave them the, the, you know,
the space to, to think new things. I mean, imagine if, if, uh, if, if previous, you know,
people got entrenched in the system, like the Rockefellers of the world in, in normal life,
lifespans, imagine like an Elon Musk or, or anyone, you know, who, who, who captures power,
living 500 years. So I love that reply because I was like, yes, that's what, what, uh, I, I want to
have the most loving and beautiful, um, existence I can, and hopefully help others do the same.
Beyond that, I really have no, no idea. I, I think, you know, it would be better if we,
you know, preserve the planet in, in a way that, that, uh, our future generations can experience the
beauty of nature, the way that we did. I think that to me, there's something like God that tells
me that, that that that's right. But then I think about the huge span of, of, of, of, uh, history.
And again, from the little, you know, blue, green algae killing everything in, in, in, you know,
that existed at the time by, by starting to put oxygen out to, to this idea that, you know,
we, you were saying, you know, that, that you don't, you would not sacrifice what is for any abstract.
To me, a lot of like, the future is the ultimate abstract. I have no idea what, what, what's out there.
And again, when I hear someone say, oh, we should, we should go and spend all these billions of dollars
because it's a must to become an interplanetary species because of the, because of the future of
humanity. I'm like, you know what? I'd rather use that for the people that are already here.
And the, you know, the children that have no food and the, because that's the one I know,
that is the, the, that is the reality that I'm actually experiencing. That's the one I want to
make better. And I don't want to become, you know, in any way belligerent about being right about
the future because it is just a big abstract out there. And, and, and I really have no idea
what I'm talking about. Okay. So there's a, there's a few things I want to touch on that you,
about what you shared here. We privilege thinking.
We think we're trained to think that minds are for thinking. They're not. Thinking is to your mind
approximately what, like what being trapped in an ice cube would be to a bird. And we think that
this kind of thinking thing is really great and very powerful. Most of what we do with it is make
machines. That's not a great idea for a living planet. Let's be really clear about that. An
actually intelligent species would know what not to make, not what to make. It's like what you said,
they would know what not to do. Right. And most of intelligence is knowing what not to do.
That's what gets you free from most of the traps that the genie offering you a wish
is going to trap you in. Right. So the first problem is that we think minds are for thinking.
That's not what they're for. I promise you, I could show you what they're for. I won't do it today,
but they're not for that. Okay. They're not for thinking. And similarly, when you say like,
I don't know if I can understand the world or the future, our minds are not for sustaining
a predictive description of the future or the past. Right. We have these other things we can do
with our minds that are truly astonishing and would rip science and religion to shreds. Our minds have
capacities that ordinary humans have never conceived of and would never imagine if you gave them a
million lifetimes of trying to imagine it. What our minds actually can do is transcendental to
everything that language is, everything that representational thought is, everything that
science is, everything that art is. Art though is the fingerprint of that transcendence entering into
the human. So I just want to say, thinking, not what minds are for. What minds are for is intimacy.
Minds are for relationships. And they're probably for something that resembles not just telepathy,
but the sharing of consciousness. Right. Which is part of what we're using language for today.
Now I want to say one other thing briefly. This knowledge shit, that's like photographs of dead
people. You got knowledge. That's the dead corpse of what you might otherwise have had.
It's very compelling. Right. I know this is a glass. I can put water in it. It's very compelling.
I know the glass will remain where I place it on the table, barring some bizarre catastrophe.
That knowledge stuff. That word used to mean something that's completely different from what we
think it means. And what it meant was like awareness, intimacy, participation, right?
These three things together. So what the moderns are doing is very confused. And these aren't things
that I think. What I'm speaking about right now are not, are not my thoughts or my opinions.
They're perspectives I have from trying to understand what it means to be human
my entire life and how our species became very confused. Right. And what it used to be when we
were less confused. And I'm still trying to understand that. I'm not certain of all of the
things I'm saying. It's not a certainty thing. Like you, I'm an explorer. I'm trying to see better
any way I can. Right. And so I want to dispose of my biases and my certainties and reach for new terrain.
And I think this is something we share. And by the way, you never once appeared defeatist or,
you know, any of those things you were afraid of the shining spark of passion in your voice and in
your eyes and your mind. Oh, thank you. It's absolutely alive. And it has been through the entire
conversation. So thank you very much. It's been, it's been a pleasure. I mean, the, the, you know,
since the moment that we spoke that first time, you know, just to, to know each other and, and,
and, uh, have that preliminary conversation, I, um, you know, I knew this was going to be fun.
Yeah. And, and again, you know, to me, this is what it's about. It's, uh, you know, I, I, uh,
I love just having someone, you know, that, that I said, you know, like-minded, but it's not really
like-minded is, is more like someone who's interested in similar things because we can be,
you know, disagree on, on, on stuff or, but it's, um, yeah, it's been a pleasure. I've really had a
lot of fun. And, uh, and, you know, if you, if you talk to me in five years, I might be in a completely
different space, but I can tell you one thing, you know, some things feel right. And now I could not go
back to like, I was a militant atheist, for example, I became, as I told you at 11 years old. Right.
And so by the time that I was 14 or 15th, I was, I was super sure about this and I was very militant
and I, I must have been a pain in the ass actually, you know, to my parents and to people that knew me.
Um, and that would feel terrible at this point about anything to, you know, to be, I, I, I'm glad
that you understand what I'm saying and that you tell me I, I didn't came off as the fittest because
it's, you know, when you say this is beyond me, or, or when you say, you know, I'm not ambitious,
which is something that I have said many times to people that know me, particularly regarding,
uh, let's say what we consider a productive live or work, you know, uh, uh, like, let's say the, um,
uh, it's the productivity driver, right? Productivity driver. You should be, boy, you
should do it. I have people come to me and say very similar things, right? They're like, wow,
you're so this, this, this, this. I don't have to say the things they say, right? You're this,
this, this, this, this, why aren't you that? Why don't you this? Right. And I'm, and I'm like,
but what about, what about us here now? And what about having fun? Yeah, exactly.
I'm having fun. Like the thing is, it's like, I'm having fun. It can't be so wrong.
I don't need these things. I don't need, like the moment I start to worry about them and I, I start to
feel like, oh, I need to do more to have more. I stopped having fun. And these conversations are fun
and playing with my, you know, nephews and my niece are, is fun. And going out and watching,
you know, playing with like dogs that are not, you know, mine, a doggy part of my phone.
Yeah. Yeah. Yes.
Music is fun. So if I can, let's say that it was an AI, if I can optimize that,
I really don't care much for whatever falls, you know, down the wayside, because at the end of the day,
um, you know, we're all, we all have an in like a finite time here, at least in this kind of a form.
And even that, right. Even that I, one thing that always like, um, you know, since I was a kid,
you know, like I, I kept thinking, it's like, how come I don't have a single atom, you know,
these days of the one I was born with, I don't have this, a single thought that is the same.
And I'm still, it's like, I think again, this is the thing with language, right? Like we say,
this is a glass and I say, this is topo. And I'm like, that in itself is just a label. And
if I'm having, if I'm doing stuff and I'm having fun, right. And it doesn't go with what I was
supposed to be, or, or how I, you know, I was raised or, well, so be it, right. As long as, as,
as the feeling is this idea of the two brains, right. The, the stomach and the brain.
Yeah. It's taken me a lot of time because coming from a, from a Jewish culture that really raises,
you know, thinking and the brain a lot, but it's more and more, I understand this, this thing that,
uh, you know, I tried to explain to you the, what I read from, uh, from, uh, Donald Hoffman and
butchered it yet. When I just sit there and contemplate the ideas, I feel something in my gut that
tells me there's something in this, there's something in these concepts that he's developing
that just feels really right. Very anti-scientific, very, you know, uh, you know, that's not the way
that, that, uh, but the good thing about your own life is that you don't have to, or at least the way
I see it, the good thing about my life is that I don't have to, uh, to justify it through the
scientific method. I can justify it just by the fact that it feels right. And that is, that is more than
enough, you know, so it might not, it might not get published in a, in a peer-reviewed journal,
but it doesn't have to. I'm glad that other people are doing that. I'm super happy that they exist. I,
I feel super lucky, you know, that, that I can get the mind of Lao Tzu who lived to any 500 years ago
and get, you know, the ideas of, of a guy that I probably will never meet that, that is a fascinating
physicist. It's like, I'm just like really, really lucky that, that, uh, I, I, I used to feel, um,
one thing that the Facebook thing going back to that did to me is that I started to feel like, uh,
this is unfair. And I started to, to feel like a victim, you know, with that whole thing,
the feeling was horrible and, and all of a sudden I was like, you know what, um,
like just let it go. Just don't use it. You know, just keep talking about it. Keep saying how, you
know, like if you ask me, I will continue to tell you, I think it's a horrible platform. I think it's
becoming more and more horrible every day. Um, and, and just like a human relationship, I don't want
to be around people that are horrible to me. Like why, why was for, why, you know, for several years
that I tried to make that something that it wasn't is a marketing and advertising platform.
It has become horrible. It has become kind of a wasteland and you know what, I'm gonna go and have
this like one-on-one conversations instead of trying to reach 300,000 people that quite frankly,
I don't know. Right. When I could, because I felt like, yeah, my ideas are reaching more people,
but you know what, did it change, uh, uh, people's minds? Well, I mean, it did get us to have this
conversation. And to me, that is already like, I feel lucky enough. And for everything that any of
these, um, any connections that have emerged from those, from that project, I'm gonna savor them.
And that's what they were meant to bring anything wrong about it or wronged about it. Uh, it's just,
it's just in my head, you know, I, it was never meant to, to, to, to be for that. And that was just
my own delusion, my own like expectation. And, and so, yeah, I, I, um, I think all of that has
been a learning experience at the end of the day. No more than that.
We agree. I mean, they did dangle the carrot, right? And we chased the carrot together each in
our own way. I just want to say one other thing about death. I'm pretty sure that death was an
intentional development of biology. They did that on purpose. That wasn't like, and the humans are very
confused about this longevity thing. What you want is you want new vehicles that are adapted to the
world you're born in today. You don't want a vehicle that's adapted to a world 150 years ago,
right? Presuming that, you know, so the whole death thing is super important. I, I agree with what you
said about that. I hope that perhaps we may have another conversation at some point.
Yeah. That sounds great. I've had a lot of fun. This has been, you know, I mean, I told you this
when, when, you know, first conversation we had, like if this reaches two people or, you know,
a hundred thousand, I'm just happy to have this conversation. So, uh, if, if this is an excuse
to keep having them, um, yeah, count, count, uh, on me for it. It's fun. Right on me too. Yeah. We'll do
another. Awesome. Thank you so very much. Thank you. Thanks for contacting me. I'm here. It's been
a lot of fun and, uh, yeah, and I can't wait to, to, to, uh, also hear the, you know, the, the ones
that you do with other people. And I'm so glad that now we're, uh, on each other's raiders and I'm
going to keep following also what you do on, on YouTube and other platforms. Amazing. Thank you so much,
fam. Thank you. Have a great one. Appreciate you. You too. Thank you. Peace for now.
