This is a magazine. If any of you are interested, I have a couple of copies. You can save $1.95 and get one for $5.50 if you want.
I'm not in any of this furniture.
I've got to stretch and wiggle a little bit here.
Everybody breathe.
Everything to get fear to lay down and crease its lips with sunlight.
Me, my, I-O-P, alabeth, alpismah.
Commutation, gizmo, we knee-bend hope. A drink before summer is lost.
Greening the ghost house at the horizon.
A voice before the rain is fully elapsed.
Boys, girls, holding their hands up against the danger.
Against the floating danger in the eyes of birds.
Cement is in us and there is cellophane for our eyes.
I have an invisible dog inside me.
A dog which licks you when you sleep.
Me, my, mizilam, qualam, lazafil.
We are seeking the seeds of the world.
The keys to the lock are awake in our breathing.
Much of the drinking was done before.
And fathers and mothers now turn to solid bone.
Wet beginning.
A youngness stranded in filthy law.
I, O-P, palabene me, my salometra.
There are windows in the surface of the ocean.
Looking down into our eyes.
Asleep in salivic wading.
Imagine a color of blue our eyes cannot perceive.
The barely legible spellings of animals
which nearly crush us into a dissolving church
that no one enters.
A church which is nothing but hollering at a map.
Nothing but hollering at a map.
Nothing but hollering at a map.
These us's are sweat coming away from orchids.
Lamra, my, me, alafi, lo, cura, omnis and chen.
We are looking down into the solid heat at the core of our eyes.
That piece is called Amnipoia.
Thanks.
This is a very unusual poem for me.
And it's about a subject which I never expected to write about.
A western.
Why would I give a shit about a western?
It is against every element of my being to give any kind of a shit about a western.
And yet, this guy born who knows how many years ago, somewhere in the south,
wrote this novel that nearly killed me.
It was a western.
It was called Blood Meridian.
Maybe some of you know it.
The author's name is almost as unlikely as me writing a poem about a western.
It's Cormac McCarthy.
Luckily, somebody finally noticed this guy.
I guess he won the American Book Award this year, which was great.
And someone turned me on to this novel and it lied around for a long time and I didn't read it.
And one day I picked it up and got trapped in it for two months.
And now I'm trapping other people in it.
It's part of my job.
Anyway, I wrote this poem about it.
It's called Red Nest.
Tennessee discharged random vintage wantings.
Misery lost and reexaminations of scalped calm to fear more blood.
A violin clapped over the gun mouth.
The cigarette horse.
The old mother when father expired near the glass, watching over.
Fourteen years the nursing blind where folk quoth those who lay long and drink.
Night where your breath pierced the rise of heaven and marked briefly the earth.
In the other music your broken rooms briefly revived.
Another gunshot nested in muscle bone sleeping through your sister.
You rode dead present to new sawn streets, oddly innocent for the danger upstairs.
Sunrise.
A hose through which less than little passed.
Stained cards on the unread table.
Echoing the strangers kept dreaming a safe distance and leather forget.
Dried up with sand.
Drank saliva from remembered song.
Mother.
New boots.
Tight lead.
Something indecipherable returning to sea level.
Circling crab wise with a knife of dark sturdy silver betwixt the teeth and trail.
Coated threat.
Chanting deadly in approaching barren plains.
The twisted insects of burned trees.
The meticulous asphyxiation shaped his jaws over years to a narrow caricature of a lost grey gull.
Hopelessly committed to wrecking its wings in a whispered storm.
To speak not of the look.
The gently stiffening day.
He says as follows.
Over us there is nothing but what's between your ready stance and my snake strike toward the gun.
Where our lead breaks forth and chooses our words.
And seen nameless things piled up upon themselves in death cloth.
And traveled the dry terrain held up only by a thread of lightning.
Food is nothing but necessity.
Pleasantly wrapped.
And then fall silent.
Waiting.
For a picture or a phrase that will not come.
Young man.
Say the souls of the past and passing.
Lock your bones into that waiting.
Let your muscle grip the scabbards looped across God's knee.
And smiling.
On alien ground.
The wagon can only return when carrying meat.
The ghost kite slowly turned.
And dead metal.
And the young man's dust.
Immobile.
Thanks.
This is a very short piece.
Fairly unusual for me.
Not that it's short.
But that the piece itself is unusual.
Sex is permitting a t-shirt to stand hollow at my door.
It is knocking.
Knocking.
Suddenly dead like piss in a diary.
The V of its neck.
Making war against every inch of glass in life.
Full of nothing and holding every possible silence in its cloth.
Against the handle of the door.
No work the shirt can do will prevail.
The sleeves are empty.
And a t-shirt has no forearm.
No wrist, no fingers.
No fingers.
Somehow yet.
It knocks.
But a sweet poison of careful design.
The manifestation of ache in small country.
Sigil in which the iron has gone crimson.
Flex of paint.
Sight line along the cracks in the woodwork.
The dead dust sink.
So electrical movement bore down upon each single bird.
Certain eggs escaped.
Turned mad in repetition like myself.
Impenetrable feeding stove in this mere area outside the door.
And was inspected, O catalog of long chrome needles breathing laughter.
Upon no other thing.
And holding nothing within its environs.
The t-shirt has been brought to my door by sex.
The shirt is crying and knocking.
There is nothing else.
You are all very patient.
It looks like most of you stayed.
You are really a wonderful audience to read for.
The other night I saw on TV something that tried to kill me.
Which is usually what I see on TV.
In fact, I think that is what TV is for.
Maybe some of you saw it.
It was a black and white film.
It looked pretty old.
Maybe from the 50's.
Of an asylum.
It wasn't narrated.
It wasn't a documentary.
It was just film.
And it made me want to die.
It really did.
So instead of dying, which would have meant I couldn't be here with you reading.
I wrote what was going on in me real quick.
And that helped me to keep breathing while I was watching this incredible cruelty going on.
To these incredible people.
Probably angels.
And so this piece is called At the Asylum.
And it deals with two of the characters mainly.
A. Old dead cut lip Jim.
How come your clean is not roomy in your cloth?
What you said?
Cut lip Jim.
Screaming, thanking tooth Jim.
Holding cut mouth shaved face in the slap foot bare room and penis leg dancing.
Foot slaps the floor, stomps at the ground.
Palm of Jim slaps the window.
Hard.
Jim salutes.
Affirms playing the piano.
Teaching high school many degrees behind dissipating heat.
Jim naked in the yelling.
84 Arlington Street at Fitzbury.
Pittsburgh State Business College.
Arithma math.
Naked and holding Jim in his cut lip trickle of bath blood.
Flash to future Jim dead suit on the evil table and they shave the dead man now who could not eat.
The eyes are shrunk down like murky bugs trying to hide from the straight razor.
Jim dressed nice into the box and goodbye Jim.
I love you Jim.
But I cannot make you breathe again.
B. Vladimir.
Sweet intellect is a good prison arguer up against the doctor's wall of shit.
Don't want to come back.
Schizophrenic paranoia is no excuse for prisoning me.
Going to the toilet or believing in God has nothing to do with a stupid doctor's dirt belief.
Bad test, absurd doctor, and I am not the way you think.
Doctor saying toilet attempts to confuse prisoner mind with clean blank papers.
War is excretion without teeth.
A citizen duty expounding views with hat and spittle to dead ears.
C. At the party.
Attitude animal playing toys against nuclear war.
Regimented youth full southwest Asia mouth breaks against even a small wind.
Of course America is a sexy bitch waving her market to bring the world an explosion.
Diesel men slamming trumpets into the still warm earth.
A boy is naked upside down singing the god damn anthem at the top of his lungs.
When Jim dying put the tube through cigarette nose lubricate tube with any oil.
Butter will do just fine says the smoking doctor.
Choking cry is held down with face properly covered.
A lathe takes over all the faces and begins shaving everyone into the backdrop.
Against which two dancers are singing about Chicago under their feet with stolen pants.
The throat is moving doctor.
Your tie is fucked into your pants with the egg worms you ordered on the telephone.
All dressed up for into the mouth of the dust and earth.
Perhaps the coffee was a poison.
The doctor's breath.
A poisoned song disguised as a wedding gown.
Thank you.
I'm going to read one more thing.
It's a little long.
Not too long.
I hope I'm not exceeding some sort of limit.
You've been doing that all your life.
Yeah, I guess I'm cursed or blessed as the case may be.
I wrote this after sitting down and being quiet for a long time.
That's all I did.
I just sat down and was quiet.
And this is for you.
It's for us.
And it's about something we seem to be unable to do.
And yet I fervently, with all of my body, believe us capable of it in every moment.
Join!
A something has eliminated every gap.
A simultaneity.
Blank mosquito from inside all of the sand.
I stand near the ocean and yet of the waters and am your reflected movement in this breath.
You are not in these words nor in the pictures of the letters, but here we join.
Neither my dot nor your flea and nothing is taken.
Tonight, at the dark, we stand and the moon is silvered blood or it is nothing.
We are not in the streets around us nor our houses, but in breath is this.
The most superior music.
Far distant from all words, far distant from our memories of pictures.
Shape and form, we are not within.
Join!
Possibly hinges, but something more I whisper across to you.
The keys and fear are raining down, collected at the brink.
The water takes them up into all of this wind and moves them about, joining.
The simultaneity of breath within the waters and of sand.
Knowing your fear and hope by virtue of the fact of these small hands,
due to pass, due to dry up and join the air.
Having fully passed and come into every possible thought.
Failed and been within each seemingly separate thing.
The fine passageways for blood and electricity.
More than mere reacting.
A species of kiss that cannot end.
Perhaps the beauty of wings lies only in their eventual coming away from the forms that they serve.
Pleading is annihilated as the water passes through and to us all.
There is this roaring light so empty.
The night rises and collects.
Exhales us for the day to inspire.
Our desperate words and pictures are from within the breath that is our hands and eyes,
reaching toward the ocean that we are.
And these incredible bodies, wrought of gravity and miry asthma,
are the certitude of approaching though complete and fully arrived.
Breathing knows every hinge before it begins and is uncollected.
Without counting for us there lie at every instant,
the vast entirety of oceans and the emphasis of atmosphere that we are and share.
Joining is always and permanently being a present birth of itself.
The bitterness of moving away and missing is the smile that rings to lock us together.
All of our eating is completing each other as our pushing away from and recoiling is complete embrace.
And cannot be changed into a lie, though we might speak it thus.
There is absolutely nothing to record or to be missed.
The pureness of our skins reflect the ocean.
We sons and daughters live the exquisite instantaneity of joined breathing
as each precarious instant falls as light and shadow dreamed
into the perfection of distance which is where we live.
All of the distance, every possible measurement, relived in this, our joined breath.
At the edge of any river we are, directly,
without moving even one of our own birds into motion.
Light exposing what we think to be,
destroying what we thought to be,
breathing us into the earth,
threading us through all of the minutes passing,
and less than a single instant we are arrived here.
This is the perfect moment of all minutes joined together,
through and within all of this, our single breath.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
