Hello, everybody. Welcome. It's Christmas Day, December 25th, 2024. What a unique time
to be alive. So grateful for all of you who come and listen and join me here. I've always
had a unique predilection for an affinity with unusually minded persons. In our time, this
label neurodivergent is sometimes used. But I think it should be obvious that we are all
neurodivergent. Most of us will recognize this object. It's a matchstick. And this year,
I received a very special matchstick that I think is indicative of the actual situation,
which differs dramatically from this one. Let me show you what I mean.
So this is a bit more like what it's actually like to be a human being. And this other thing
is a lot like how we think of being a human being, right? There's this thing at the top,
our head. And by the way, if you notice that some of my fingernails are longer on this hand,
a fact which some people find disturbing. This is because I play guitar and the fingernails are
useful for that and other things. We'll come back to that in a moment. But this reminds me of most of
the people I know and love because they are on fire from the top to the bottom. And it's not the brain
in them that is on fire. And what is that fire? What is the fire that we burn with in our human lives and
incarnations? We experience it differently in different moments and situations. And fundamentally,
it's a fire deeply related to origin, to what we might call our true nature.
And this nature longs for justice, not in the sense of vengeance or payment for wrongs, but in the sense of
the beauty, balance, wonder, awe, resurrection, and amnesis, the unforgetting. For it seems that
each of us uniquely carries incredible intelligence and love into our human
bodies and lives, relationships. But the human aspect of us is the least of what we are. And we are not
what's. We are, in a sense, ways, living ways.
I was listening to a song this morning by a young woman named Sophia. What is her? Sophia Isela.
Sophia Isela. And it's a quite amazing thing. Since it's very new to me, I do not recall the
lyrics, though I may look them up in a moment. She's a brilliant artist.
She's a brilliant artist. Let me find these lyrics. Let's see here. I think the song is called
The Doll People. The Doll People are not men. They are made of ass and glass. Our skin is clay and painted blue. Our head can detach.
We are statues. We are statues with a pulse. We are art you can fuck.
It goes on. It's absolutely brilliant. And her renditions of it are astonishing. Exactly the kind of thing I love.
But what I, the reason that I bring this up is that she is perhaps inadvertently and yet also brilliantly
pointed out something, which is that we are not our bodies.
We are not humans. The materiality of us is both true and deceptive.
And it is the unforgetting of the illusions that arise through incarnation that I use this word anamnesis to refer to.
And it is the art of the unfolding of origin, intelligence, awareness, insight, wonder in our experience.
I'm going to shut this window so there's a little less traffic noise.
We bring to human birth a library of urgencies, many of which over time
are inhibited or occluded.
And it strikes me that the mystery of our humanity, which is so profound,
is so non-ordinary that all of our ideas put together remind me of this thing.
That little green part at the top.
I remember today all of the brilliant beings, plants, insects, animals, humans,
spirits who have been my teachers and my companions throughout my life.
Particularly, I remember William Sawyer, who took his life last August,
and Eric Navarro, who was unexpectedly taken from life this August.
Both of those young men were brilliant souls and a fire in my heart.
I loved them like my children or my fathers or the sky.
But I remember all of the teachers, my parents, my family, my friends,
with great gratitude and love.
In my own life, since I was very young, I ached for the rebalancing,
for the healing of the peoples of the earth, and particularly the human relationships with nature
and living beings and places.
And I still have those aches.
And many of the mysteries that plagued me and that I still adore were also my companions,
indeed my lovers.
The impossible questions of the nature of birth and death and origin and light and time.
Organisms.
Why are there organisms?
Why are there so many impossibly beautiful, diverse kinds of beings here?
This world, the earth, absolutely precious.
An oasis of wonder in time-space.
And it strikes me that something that I said last night in ridiculous stuff,
this may be a Facebook post,
was that the appearance of the myriad forms of beings is deceptive
because it is the face of a single child.
And you can see this in our play, our striving, our love, our fear, our war,
all of these things.
One child in myriad bodies, situations.
And you can imagine that if you were the universe or God
or the being that dwells in unity or the living waters, the Great Mother,
then you would want to expand into myriads of beings and situations
to live in those sparkling moments, like stars in the universe,
and then coalesce back to unity, and then expand, and then coalesce, and then expand, and then coalesce.
And this is the, this is the, how to put this?
It's a toy that I was shown by a being that I think of as an angel,
who I sometimes refer to as Toymaker, in relationship to Christmas and Santa Claus.
There is, in my view, a Santa.
It does involve chimneys and other strange mysteries, perhaps even reindeers and sleighs.
Although the way it involves those things is not as we might imagine,
and neither is the idea of an angel like that which we might imagine.
In fact, if you could imagine something that obliterates categories more beautifully and explosively
and insightfully each time it touches your mind, so that it is impossible to encompass it,
you are getting close to what I mean when I use this strange word, angel.
Also deeply related to the word in English, angle.
It is my suspicion and perspective that all beings are fundamentally messianic.
And what I mean by that is world rescuing.
They draw from the transcendental perfection of origin into each instant.
This living light of awareness, anamnesis, recognition, communion.
And the beauty of this, the adoration at its core, the recognition,
that there are at once the appearances of distinction and separation.
They are not merely appearances, but they are deceptive to our minds.
The inaction, embodiment, bliss of the recognition and transmission
of unity beyond distinction and of distinction within unity.
And this is a fundamental aspect of the nature of being.
And part of why certain features of science, for example, what we refer to as the double slit experiment,
have confusing results.
I've spent my life questing and adventuring in the transcendental mind from which my human mind derives its peculiar locality.
And while I've been deprived of many of the things that I think ordinary humans and I myself hope for,
the gifts I've received in quest have been astonishing beyond my possible hope or imagined.
Gifts of insight and recognition and the direct experience of the divine.
But the existence of a single organism transcends all the things I've ever thought.
Some of the most astonishing moments of my life were simply moments when I was interacting with some creature.
Particularly the insects we call praying mantises, which if you wanted to meet an alien intelligence and you didn't have a spaceship,
which by the way, you don't need.
Those things are both unnecessary and uninteresting compared to what is established in our being and the possibility space of our humanity.
Staggeringly astonishing.
Incomparable to any machine that could possibly be composed.
I mean, if you wanted to have a direct experience of contact with an intelligence beyond everything humans imagined to be possible,
simply contact some organism's essence.
And there are particular organisms that the humans are not generally inclined, especially the moderns,
to acknowledge or see.
Let's see here.
These are organisms, all the organisms qualify, but praying mantises, octopuses, whales, dolphins,
raccoons, spiders.
I have a peculiar affinity for a specific mode of intelligence instanced on this incredible world.
The ambush predators.
They are available to contact with humans in an unusual array of ways.
These are creatures like the praying mantis, the octopus, the squid, the jaguar, the rattlesnake.
Each of us is invested with a feature that is mostly inhibited by the processes of enlanguaging and enculturation that we undergo in childhood.
Each of us uniquely preserves some features of this interface.
I often use the word uplink to describe it, and those objects we call smartphones are representations of this feature.
Unfortunately, those devices, by representing this feature, largely destroy it.
They actively occlude it and inhibit it by replacing it with representations of its nature and function.
We imagine that our minds are separate and distinct and probably live in our heads.
Nothing like this is true or possible.
In fact, the feature we call a brain, which may not even exist in the way we think.
Imagine, for example, that, alike with the suppositions of certain people such as Tom Campbell,
the universe only renders that which observers, particularly in this case human observers, look at.
So that if you don't open up the head of a human or animal, there is no brain there.
This perspective is difficult to entertain.
I don't necessarily agree with it, but it's a useful idea nonetheless.
This organ that we call our brain and believe to exist whether or not we are looking at it is a very strange thing,
and it is not the source of our consciousness or our mind.
I suspect actually it is, if it truly does exist in the unopened heads of humans and other creatures with brains,
that it is something like a transceiver.
But the thing that we call our mind, which of course isn't a thing, it's a way.
It is the result of participation in a broad library of impossible to imagine relationships and situations.
And so in a sense, it's a translation matrix.
I also think it's unfortunate that the connotations that this word matrix acquired,
even though the film of that name was quite profound in its way.
And I'm a huge fan of science fiction to the degree that I'm a huge fan of anything.
Because really the origin of this word has a lot to do with wombs, right?
The matrix is the womb, the cave.
In material existence, the shaping embodiment of the transcendental inspiration of the feminine,
which the skin of the drum is deeply related to because it can be understood to be the hymen.
We rarely think of our genitalia as particularly profound,
and humans are inclined to rub them together for unique and exciting effects.
But the intelligences that are associated with the reproductive activity of organisms,
and particularly humans, are vastly more ancient and profound than anything it is possible to conceive of.
If you wanted to look somewhere in material reality for evidence of the divine intelligences,
one of the best places to find it would be in the reproductive organs of organisms.
Because these are the selective intelligences that mediate incarnation.
And the angel talked to me at great length about these matters in the most astonishing ways.
And I remember much of what it showed me to my terror and wonder.
And though it's not my intent to lecture at length about the experiences I had,
I will say this, that to encounter the transcendental intelligences that our minds are derivations of,
localized in matter, is truly terrifying.
But it's not the kind of terror that we're used to.
It is the terror of a beauty, so cataclysmal, a maelstrom of self-exceeding ecstatic intelligence and ecstasy,
that one immediately, the fear of death rises immediately in one's heart,
and the heart can just flutter under the influences of such a storm.
I've always been very imaginative, and I've read many hundreds of science fiction and fantasy stories.
Nothing I read compared to what I experienced, even slightly.
In fact, the experiences that we have of ecstasy, which may arise in intimate relations with lovers
or sometimes under the influences of certain organic chemistries,
are almost tedious in comparison to the direct experience of our own nature, our origin, our original family.
And each of us was given, or not given, we actually formed around, right,
this sort of uplink interface that I speak of, which the smartphone is a representation of.
And before that, television was kind of a representation of, and the internet is kind of a representation of,
and even radios and telephones are sort of a representation of.
We humans, we have this word in English called psychism or telepathy.
With the actual nature of what's going on, we have this all backwards.
We think that telepathy is a skill.
This would be like fish thinking that swimming is a kind of thing that only very special fish have the ability for.
We were born from the intimate profundity of the field of all minds in all beings in all of time,
including beings that we have no possible way of conceiving of.
Sort of layers of that which is right.
And at the core of that impossible manifold, there is this sort of transcendental impossibility as potential.
And then a little ways out from that there's a layer of what is at least conceivably possible,
and then the possible, and then the probable.
And then things start to become deterministic like.
And then at our layer where we live as embodied beings,
we have the interplay of all of these layers from the impossible to the probable,
to the likely, to the actual, to the physical fact, right?
Hardness of this glass, this physical fact.
Our flesh, physical, true, continuous, it seems.
And though we exist at what we could think of as the outer layer,
you could put it in the middle too and go backwards,
but though we exist at the outer layer where the physical reality and the continuity of the fact
that my door will still probably be there tomorrow, is deceptive.
And it's so compelling, that physicalness, that we sort of undergo layers of forgetting, layers of forgetting as we grow up.
But each of us is invested with, and I think actually formed around,
this uplink that leads sort of upscale from our local human intelligence to the cognizant of the humans,
to the cognizant of all living beings here, to the cognizant of time-space, the cognizant of origin.
And in truth, if you imagine, like a sphere filled with tree structures that lead into a world where the beings look distinct, right?
They are all one thing, right?
Because imagine just little myriads of little branches leading to the core,
and at the end of one of those branches at the core is you, and at the end of a similar branch is the raccoon,
the living place, the mountain, the river, my mother, you know, endless grandmothers in time.
All of these beings, they are one thing, appearing distinct, one child with many faces, attempting to unforget in the seemingly deterministic layer of physical incarnation.
There is a library that is more than merely alive, there is a transcendentally intelligent, ever more infinite library.
And when I say it's alive, it's very difficult to form a good analogy of this,
but it is the books that read themselves to you as your own mind, something like this.
Some people have referred to this as the Akashic Records, but I think that's a confused way of understanding it,
because the reality is both infinitely more accessible to each of us and intimately personal.
In your physical body, you were given a specific and very peculiar symbol.
What is the right word?
Like an amulet or a transcendental symbol whose profundity is infinitely, as infinitely impossibly perfect and effective,
as it is invisible.
And it is this.
If you will meditate upon this, you will discover that all of the secrets of the before and the now and the after
are embodied.
Right.
Literally.
They're not literally in your hand.
They are your hand.
And it's quite profound because this is the feature of you.
With which you primarily interact with matter.
Now, of course, we have many senses, not merely five.
and the sense around which our senses orient is this uplink sense right so i would like you to
chase the possibility of the direct experience of following your mind back through the layers
to origin in a way not dissimilar to how a salmon returns from the ocean finds the specific
waterway from which it originated swims back up that waterway perhaps even up waterfalls
perhaps even past grizzly bears to somewhere very close to where it was first alive
and there is a this this analogy is very profound because if you can get even just a couple of
layers up past what you think of as your personal consciousness you will immediately discover
wonders that are beyond everything you've ever heard or read or conceived of and those wonders
don't merely belong to you
you are those wonders whatever we may be as humans is the tiniest part of us
first we are origin then we are the universe then we are this galaxy then we are the solar system
this sun this planet the relationships with the planets and moons and ices and gases of the solar
family then we are this world then we are an organism and even be way back up that we are beings right
somewhere up there we are beings and we are organisms then we are animals then we are humans and the part of
us that thinks is really a very peculiar problem useful in the representational layer of human activity and
relationships but devastatingly crippling in in the sense of how it elides or
defects from the vast library of the possibility space of our existence
humans so for most of us we will live and die like fish who have never seen water like birds nailed to a wall
and what nails us to this wall is mostly conceptual thought and the strange inhibiting gravity of
human the human cultures in which we are enmeshed and these cultures
human cultures purvey plethoras of exploding representations of what they subtract from
our experience and sell us the images of right sort of we get the wrapping paper but not the chocolate
and that's very tragic yet at the same time there's something absolutely beautiful about undergoing this
process of being evacuated of uh direct participation in existence in all these myriad ways and then somehow
reconceiving and unforgetting over the course of a moment or a lifetime
this is in a way what this uh distribution of being into distinct
places situations and moments and then re-coalescing of being into unity much like the beating of our heart
or our breathing right is doing something like this yeah
um there's an essay on my medium channel you can find it uh just by looking up medium darren stevenson
and it's called dandelion and it elucidates this toy right of
so we have this thing of psychism and telepathy we have this backwards this is
most of what is going on is transcendentally unified and the appearance of distinction is illusory
i've heard recently from a couple of friends about the telepathy tapes which i have not yet listened to
but this is a researcher who is examining scientific evidence for telepathy between
unusually minded or neurodivergent children particularly i think uh autistic children
and their parents caregivers and companions
and really again this is like fish attempting to prove the existence of water
in a world where none of them believe in it or very few like to believe in the existence of water is
considered insane it's very strange to be human but it's also quite profound you have in this
a feature that was more useful than if you had what we think of as a ufo right something something
capable of going to any world in time space meaning in all of time in all of space instantly but it's it's
better than that because it can go to multiple worlds and multiple beings within those worlds
simultaneously without the necessity of physical travel this is why spacecraft are a ridiculous anachronism
the mysteries of our origin and nature are uniquely alive in each of us moment to moment
do not forget do not forget do not forget
and this word we have love adoration it is the the sort of
the placeholder for the re-emergence of that recognition of unity from within distinction
we are scripted to suppose that the good thing to do with our minds is thinking
again this would be like fish thinking that the good thing to do
is to crawl on hot asphalt that this is what they are made for of course it's obvious this is what we were
you know or that birds thinking that to chain themselves helplessly to a stone
is what wings were are supposed to do thinking is a profound uh an amazing capacity in us
but the scope of its usefulness is a tiny little sliver of a sphere or even a manifold a bubble of many bubbles
right um
i suspect that what our minds are for is direct participation in the being experience intelligence
and memory of myriads of beings many of the forms of which we have failed to conceive of because we are
busy thinking again it's like a butterfly thinking that its purpose was to find a hammer
somewhere right so exactly the wrong idea what our minds are for are forging a position above distinction
that re-communalizes intelligence and awareness together in the strange layer of seeming separateness
that we inhabit as incarnate organisms
my friend maria maragu opined on a feature of the elefcina elefcina mysteries which we usually say
eleusinian in english where how can i put this so
um this word ceramic it it relates to like vessels uh you know pots and so forth but also um is related
i think to the word cemetery right and the some of the ancient greeks those who were initiated and those
who uh were aware of of these um transcendental traditions that re-divenize the humans they thought
of the body as essentially the crypt or the grave of the soul the soul dies into the body and this
brings me to think that we there's another thing we have backwards which is that our fear of death right
there's not really any problem with death everything's fine over there the real problem is when you're born
now you're going to have some problems right and some confusion some forgetting some trouble some amnesia
suffering fear and so forth it also strikes me perhaps that um our intuitions our affinities and our
disaffinities that which we are repulsed by right this could in fact be uh the leaking backward
into time little droplets of intelligence and awareness and understanding from beyond this life
right and perhaps even what we think of as our minds are like this
i continue to be absolutely fascinated with the nature of our predicaments existence
and when i spoke earlier of justice i did not mean vengeance or paying for wrongdoing what i meant was
the return of virtue in our experience relationships awareness minds activities
the virtue of the nature of origin the memory of our
communion right our oneness this word it's not enough because the way in which we are one
is transcendentally beyond simple unity
my strange-minded friends i'm so astonished that we're all still here alive together
and i think that what our minds are actually for is forming an impossibility space
above everything that we think of as ordinary and true when we are thinking because this thinking
is not what lines are for therefore a kind of flight that we naturally do together which recovers features
of origin and transcendental intelligence and insight and adoration and awe and wonder directly into this
moment of experience setting it into iridescent scintillating glory
and i have this experience commonly with many of you and it's inconceivably beautiful
as i've gotten older my experience of life has become so much more rich
but now as i approach the gateway of my mortality i'm so excited every moment just still have a body
and um you know i've been a a student of zen for many years and a student of nature and light and time
of beings
if there's something quite profound which is that if it were possible to gather back to this instant
our awareness to retract it from concerns about the future
the past memories shame guilt pain suffering fear if we could retract all these little tendrils into this
this instant we would immediately become aware in a kind of moksha or satori
of the profoundly beautiful perfection of now this instant
this instant where nothing is missing
and certainly if we have pain if we are suffering if we are sick if we are dying if we are struggling
to be born if we are in a conflict if we are frightened then that root of our being it becomes
nervous nervous shaky and so it cannot reflect this moment
as clearly
one of the most profound things that i've ever seen
is just the play of light on the surface of water and how it transforms when that surface
transformed and when the surface is very still it's as if that stillness is transferred into me somehow
and also as if that water is my mind but something in me is frightened to let go into it completely as if
as if i would be abs taken away
and yet i think that the opposite is true if i could release perfectly freely into that
living water light
then what would pass away
is not me
but the prisons in which i have long dwelt
and have filled me with trepidation
the fear of death is natural to us and very profound useful too
but i think it was hakuin who may have said um
those who die on the pillow
right die before you die and you'll be free
free of what well free of the occlusions the amnesia the delusions the illusions that cause fear
and even fear quite profound nothing to get rid of
but it would be amazing to have
liberation together while alive in human form
and while i chase this i'm also in love with the other thing
somehow we become romantically involved with our cages don't we
the aspect of you that dreams
is almost the explicit opposite of the aspect of you that thinks
and these two cannot be perfectly separated
but i would trust the one that does not make the cuts in identity that the waking mind does
and instead plays in the field of the relationships between those features and beings that appear distinct
it lives there in that liminal between alive and brilliant creative and playful curious awestruck adoring
i'm so grateful to have this time together today and i look forward to future explorations insights
un-forgettings and liberations
much love to all of you all blessings to you and those you love the many beings the living places
the plants animals insects fishes all of the creatures
may your cage dissolve and your myriad wings illuminate
might existence always bye-bye for now
