So this has been a long time coming.
I'm sure that the hover could go directly to outer space.
I'm completely ready for that.
I hope you are too.
There's lots of different directions that we can take this talk.
Yeah, I mean, you're one of the most unusually minded people that I love and I have a deep
penchant for finding and connecting with such folks.
You have probably one of the most eclectic friends list on Facebook that I have seen.
Just people that are pretty much all stunning individuals in their own right.
And I just follow AI versions of Asian girls with large curves, you know, that's really
my MO.
I mean, you know, the trick there is that, you know, those Asian girls are all, you know,
representative of the MSS, the Chinese intelligence service, which is all spying on all the smart
people here in the United States, and they know exactly how to get into our, into our
hands.
Yeah, those chicks don't exist, man.
I've never seen, I've never seen one tall, slender, leggy, busty Asian girl in my lifetime,
except on Facebook and what, dating apps, where there's just a plethora of them.
I just, you know, not, not only that, but like, I feel like, like, like Asian girls don't
even look like Asian girls that I remember from 20 years ago.
There's a particular kind of, yeah, it's like somebody's been doing genetic engineering or
something.
Where do these girls come from?
I feel like that.
I feel like that.
I feel sometimes like maybe there's some kind of weird Mandela effect at work here with,
with this, that I haven't been able to explain, but, but yeah, man, yeah, for sure.
There's all kinds of things that we can talk about, especially right now.
I, I feel like this is, I think this is a pretty crazy time for everybody.
And certainly for me right now, I'm, I'm lots of different things are opening up for
me in my own life that have been kind of, that, that have been conclusion, well, maybe
not conclusions, but let's just say elaborations on themes that I've been going for a long, long
time.
So, you know, I'm a scientist at heart, but I'm also a mystic.
I have been meditating since I was 16 years old.
And, and, and to me, that, that aspect of reality is really the primary aspect, right?
For me, I feel the happiest.
I feel the best.
I feel the most like, I don't know.
I feel the most in that space.
And part of what I've been wanting to do for a long time is to try and, and bring kind
of the two worlds that I have inside of me together.
Right.
The, both the mystic and the scientist, and to give them both a means to be able to talk
to each other in a way where they can relate.
Right.
Right.
In a way where they can have a conversation that's meaningful and not get stuck on.
Is this even possible?
I think that there's a way of doing that now.
I think that there's enough of the basis in science for us to do that.
And I have think I've found enough things in science that I can have that kind of conversation.
So yeah, that's what I do.
That's what I'm about.
And what I want to do beyond just the work I do to make money.
I mean, for my own part, I'm fascinating, I'm fascinating, I'm fascinated with the, the
possibility of something that actually resembles intelligence and how uncommon anything muchly
resembling that truly is.
Also between, with the, the trench and conflict between representational cognition and something
resembling articulate awareness or, you know, like awake awareness.
Yeah.
And these two often seem to me to be fundamentally in conflict, but that's not the only thing
going on.
You mean like cognitive and sensorial?
Like how those two are almost two different, seem like two different worlds or seem like
different, like, yeah, like different worlds.
Like very much that's been one of the themes that I have been looking at in my own life.
It's like, what's the difference, what's the difference between like sensory perception,
right?
And cognitive perception.
Like what are the inherent, like what's the, the, the thisness that's, that really characterizes
both of them, um, in terms of difference and, and I'm still working on the answer to that.
But part of it is, part of it I think is presence, how present you are with any, any of it.
Um, and as far as I'm concerned, um, organism outperforms cognition, particularly representational
cognition, like a billion fold.
I mean, whatever I might be, and I don't know what that thing is that I am.
Um, I'm only very, the tiniest part of me is human and a much tinier part is representationally
cognitive, right?
Which means using, uh, concepts stream together, you know, forming manifolds of concepts, and
then using those to articulate something about experience or existence.
A word that I tend to prefer to reality because I don't actually believe much.
I mean, I, I try to avoid beliefs in general, I'm much more interested in insight.
Yeah.
But, um, I don't really believe that I'm very skeptical about the reality.
I just don't, I just don't think that there is a reality.
In fact, in fact, our, our, all of our, all of our most advanced scientific experiments
show us that there is no singular reality, right?
Like that we can create tests essentially where you have two observers that are, uh, viewing
an observable that essentially creates a causality that is incongruous with any type of like third
observer looking at that.
Right.
I don't understand.
Yeah.
Okay.
I just have to ask some, I just have to make some simple questions and ask some, uh, of course,
some things.
Some things.
So it appears to me that moderns have not caught up with the implications of relativity
for identity.
Relativity.
Yeah.
I'm not talking about quantum physics.
Not even a little.
Relativity.
Right.
Because if you understand the implications for relativity.
Yeah.
The fact that no two observers, in fact, of non simultaneity implies something very weird
about time, um, to me, which is that time must be a manifold of observers.
And if we want to get really weird about it, then we don't have to start out that crazy,
but I know that I have about 68 trillion cells, about half of which are human and the
other half of which are not human.
Right.
They don't come from my gene line.
They come from nature.
They're bacterial cells.
Right.
And there's billions of years of intelligence that's been, that's, that's there that,
that you can inquire into, but you're, you're no more that intelligence than, than,
than any other intelligence that you can inquire into as well.
Like, like we have these systems of deep intelligence that are a part that are a part of us, right?
That we, well, we usually just take for granted.
Cause we don't notice that they are these incredible systems of intelligence.
And we make the mistake of thinking that we are the guys at the top.
Right.
I think the weirder mistake is that, um, thinking is at the top.
Yes.
Yes.
It might be somewhere near the top.
Yes.
But thinking compared to, you know, whatever the rate of time is for a cell, it's nothing
like what it is for an animal at this scale.
Right.
And so if I'm like 68 trillion cells, that's 68 trillion cell seconds per second.
Right.
Right.
So do you, who, what, where do we get the idea that you could do something with conceptual
thought that could possibly equal what's going on there?
It's not going to happen ever.
Right.
It's off the fucking table.
It's not going to happen.
And this is one of the things.
Go ahead.
Yeah.
And I mean, if you look at, if you look at how intelligence works anyways, it's not like
we're the ones that are the, that are on the hook for any of the intelligence that we inquire
into like that, the intelligence of our body, right.
It's something that you ask about and get an answer back, but it's a promote from, from,
from your perspective, it's kind of a black box, right?
Like the intelligence of the body.
You can inquire into it and you get a response from it.
Right.
And so it is, it is part, what am I trying to say?
Well, what I'm trying to say is that all, well, first of all, all living systems are
interrelated and there's no such thing as a living.
I don't think there's such a thing as a living being at all.
I think that there are only systems.
I think that there are interrelated systems of life.
Right.
And those systems in life have interfaces that make them look like they might be an individual.
Like you, you, you have an interface, you have a face, you have a, you have an individual
personality, but behind the scenes, right.
You are a, you are an interrelated set of systems that are all working together that each
have their own purpose.
Right.
And their own life force that work together in order to create you.
Right.
So what is it that's, that's like, what's happened to those systems to, to make that happen?
Well, they've, they've synchronized, right.
They have synchronized into a singular system that has an interface that you call you.
Right.
That interface though, like the singularity at that interface, the belief that you're a singular
being.
Right.
Is a result of the interface itself.
Is the result of actually using the interface to perceive of reality.
And you get a reflection back telling you, you are this being that is looking in this world.
Right.
Like you as the being are this, this set of systems that are all interrelated together.
And you have this interface that you present to the world.
Right.
And so the world relates to you is that interface.
Right.
And so, and that's one portion of you.
That's one portion that from the, you know, from perception out, but then there is this,
are these other sets of systems that are, that are internal to you that yet.
But yet that are, that have an automaticity in terms of how they work.
Right.
Like we are not responsible for our breath at all.
And we're not responsible for the way that our digestive system works.
It just does its thing automatically.
That's wisdom.
That's intelligence.
Right.
That all of that in our body, all of these systems that come together, that is intelligence.
Like, and that intelligence is natural.
And it is different than the kind of intelligence that we think we apply.
Like we call this mind, this minding that we do intelligence.
And that's not intelligence.
That's just minding.
Right.
That's just doing things with a mind, connecting one concept to another, which is an interesting
facsimile of intelligence, but it's not intelligence.
It's not.
Because it, because it, because it, it relies on memory and it is weighed down by memory
and bias and doesn't work nearly as effectively as the mindless memoryless intelligence of the
present moment.
And the natural intelligence that, that, that goes, that is always coursing through everything.
Right.
Like the universe is fundamentally predisposed to, to impl, to becoming intelligent and employing
intelligence in all aspects of its existence.
That's what it does fundamentally.
Unlike our species.
Yes.
For some reason.
Yeah.
No, I, I know.
I'm really curious about why this is a problem and how it became a problem and so forth.
And I may have some insights about it, but let me, um, wander around a bit and let's agree
to make a little space for each other as we go, you know, as we wander down the path together,
because I know that zoom, um, it only records who, the one person who's speaking.
So, and it would be nice if we could, um, just sort of go back and forth in a more or less
natural flow.
Of course.
But, um, when I look at any organism, I see embodied intelligence plainly enacted.
A bee is a great example.
Um, a bee is a very unique example.
An octopus is a similar example.
Um, a flower, uh, the tree, all these things.
What, one of the things they don't do that we seem to do is they don't split off into portions
that then compete against themselves and every other life form on earth.
The concept of competition in nature is wildly mal-founded.
It's not that there isn't any.
It's that there's no chance that that's the fundamental principle.
Well, here's a question to you.
All as observers, what we do is we take a probabilistic space.
We take probability and we make it into something determined, right?
Like what we do is we, we, we create determinism by, by looking at a probability space.
In the, in that same breath, we also create the entropy that we perceive in that space.
Right?
So does, so does a bee create entropy?
Does a bee perceive entropy?
Is, is, is the, is the perception of a bee have that kind of, have the, that quality in it?
And I don't, I don't have an answer for you, but I think it's a really interesting thing to, to consider.
Because ultimately entropy plays a fundamental role in all of this.
We agree about that in a, in a, in a very primordial way.
So first of all, or, or, or, you know, 19th of all, as we've gone down a few roads, I just want to circle back to something about relativity.
Um, if you understand world lines, then it becomes apparent that whether or not beings are actually separate.
Yeah.
There's a way of viewing them.
That is crucially important.
That implies that each one of them is a unique bubble of temporality.
Yeah.
If we want to talk about.
Is what I call that.
Say again.
I call that observational networks.
And one of the, it one, it's one of the, it's one of the scientific, scientific, uh, disciplines.
I would have to say that I, I created one of the, one of my main benefits of work.
One of my main works is called observational dynamics.
Observational dynamics is all about the, the relationship between the observer and the environment.
And how that relationship, how the relationship between the observer and the effects the environment and vice versa.
Right.
In those flows of energy and entropy really create everything that we, that, that we experience, that we see.
Like that process really is the process that gives birth to reality as well as our own subjective experience.
But, but there's a portion of observational dynamics, which is all about observational networks.
How observers connect together to create reality.
Right.
Like for example, the Mandela effect is this beautiful effect that, that people have, hasn't yet been recognized as exactly an effect of this reality that we speak of.
Right.
As what I, uh, uh, an effect of what, what I call info lines, which you call world lines, I believe, which are essentially nothing but networked observers that have these experiences.
Right.
Like.
I mean, I'm just using, just to be clear, I'm using Einstein's words, not mine.
Yeah.
He, he called them world lines.
Okay.
He did.
But what I'm trying to get out here is like, there's something very profound going on.
And part of the profundity is exactly at the pivot where no two observers can observe precisely the same thing in precisely the same way at precisely the same time.
Um, and it, it, it seems to me that the fundamental mystery and you and I think a lot about, we think unique differently, but I think, um, uh, uh, very interesting.
Um, we, we, we think similarly about the concept of networked observers.
Now I'm going to, I'm going to direct an epithet at you, which is that I suspect, and you feel free to correct me.
I suspect that you're something of a cyberneticist motherfucker.
A cyberneticist.
I do believe that life can express itself through all, through all media, including technological means.
I don't see a fundamental difference between the two.
I do think that one is much better predisposed at being able to do something than the other.
And I think that, I think that we, we biological creatures are perceivers.
We're feelers.
We feel, we perceive.
We are so good at putting our minds somewhere and, and being able to feel that the nature of that thing.
That's what we're experts at.
Not, not on like, not cognitive, like not computation.
Right.
Computation is best left for computers.
Like computers are really good at that.
Like, but, but now, now mind you, that does not mean.
That does not mean that, that a computer and a human can't be part of the same living system.
Again, because living systems are sync are synchronized systems, right?
Like a living system.
Isn't just a system of biological components.
It's a, can be a system of sociological components.
It can be multiple humans that have networked together into a larger entity.
I believe that all of those are valid.
Those are valid beings.
Those are actually, there are actually living beings that I very much, I feel like as though I'm part of a larger being.
Absolutely.
How can I not, when the things I produce, half of them, I don't quite understand what I'm, what I'm doing.
And yet it's totally clear to me on the other side of it.
And it all makes sense.
It's not like it, I'm like the things that produce are bullshit.
I checked them.
I checked the math.
I checked it, you know, and it all comes out in like, it's, it's, it's real.
And so how could I make that if I was, if it was all of this was nonsense?
It's not.
My capacity is synchronized with another capacity.
And then there is the, what, whatever exists between those things that express, then expresses itself.
It communicates itself.
I think that we're all parts, part of these networks of life personally, right?
So you and I have had previous discussions that orbit the problem of entropy.
Yes.
And I, when I, when I accused you and I did accuse you of being a cyberneticist.
Yes.
What I sort of meant was you're a systems thinker.
I am a systems thinker.
Definitely.
So that's kind of what I meant.
And I'm a bio relation thinker.
Yeah.
Fundamentally.
And I think there's something above biology that forges biology.
And that's the thing that I serve and I'm in love with.
Now, I, I think, I mean, there's so many little topics I want to chase with you.
And by the way, were you looking at your phone, brother?
When?
Yeah.
Just now.
No, I haven't.
I don't have my phone here at all.
Okay, great.
Great.
Okay, cool.
I have no idea why.
Mine right here, but I've got it like face down on the, on the desk.
Yeah.
The human.
I try.
I want to give you.
So, um, there's some things I want to introduce.
And the first is that, uh, I'm a big fan of something that I refer to as biorelational
hypersystems, which is fundamentally organisms doing stuff together for each other and the
history and future of organisms.
Yeah.
And I have to say that I do actually, and I'm not going to try to convince you or attack
your position or anything like that.
But I have to say that, um, machines don't fucking look like that to me.
And let me be really clear about where I'm going here.
Yeah.
For organisms, they have this way of being at least modestly, if not hyperbolically,
megan tropic.
Yeah.
They offload through synchronization, through synchronization, they find this benefit that
is localized to a living planet like ours.
The multiple oscillators connect together using a common body.
And by, by synchronizing together, they lower the relative entropy of that connected
body.
That lower entropy is a, is the perceiver.
That is the being, right?
That, that, that is the kickstart to life.
Holy shit.
That's an amazing insight that I love, right?
I'm all, I'm all with you on that, on that idea.
But I want to be really clear about something.
Um, machines and particularly computation, they dump entropy and they desynchronize organisms.
Organisms and machines, they don't sync up.
And when they do things go sideways, I go ahead.
Do you know why part of it, part of it, part of it is the way that we've been using numbers.
We have been using numbers like, like, um, cavemen with sticks in that we've been treating numbers like they were classical entities or ever.
Now we've been treating mathematics as though it was a classical thing, as though a seven was just a seven or a 15 was just a 15.
The 15 is not a 15, 15 is 15.
It's also five times three.
It's also three times five.
No, actually, let me interrupt you there.
Yeah.
We think that every instance of 15 is the same fucking thing.
Oh, it's not.
That is not possible.
It's not possible.
That's exactly right.
That's not possible.
Every instance of 15 occurs.
What does that mean?
A communal manifold.
Exactly.
Exactly.
What does that mean?
What does that mean, Darren?
It means that every number has a quantum element.
Every number.
Isn't just a number.
Every number is a set of probabilities.
It's a probability space interacting with other probability space that across the board.
And guess what?
That's exactly.
That's exactly what I found in my work.
My work.
Okay, wait, I just want to slow you down and we've got it.
We can, let's go back and forth here.
Because we both, I mean, we're going to have a little, we're going to have a jam session,
right?
We're having a jam session.
I'm down.
So one of the things you're implying here, which is crazy as fuck.
And you are one of the craziest people I've ever come across, just to be clear.
And I'd like to think that maybe, you know, I might be similar in your world.
You're almost implying something so radical that it never occurred to even me before this
moment, which is that numbers, actual instances of numbers, not the, not the conceptual idea
of a number, not that actual instances, occurrences of numbers might be perceivers or they might
be both perceivers and catalysts for perception in manifolds of conscious beings.
Got it.
Yeah.
That's insane.
How dare you?
You're not supposed to say shit like that.
Look, we're mortal down here, brother.
We're mortal.
And there's certain things that we both know are forbidden to discuss.
And that's fucking one of them.
That's one of them right there.
Go.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
But you know, if you see something, you've got to say something as far as I'm concerned.
And in this case, the, it's just fucking claims day.
It's this, this, what I'm talking about right now is a very recent, it's something that's
been three days old and not, not only is it.
And so this, this is essentially a consideration that came out of my trying to understand what
prime numbers are all about and what they mean and how they work and how they, and how
they're arranged.
And for a long time, long time now, I've been pursuing studying primes using modular systems.
So what does that mean?
A modular, mod, mod, mod, modulus or modular systems is essentially nothing but the remainder
of a multiplication operation.
So think about, think about the whole number set as arranging, as repeating series of, of,
of the same number, like repeating series of, of groups of nine numbers.
So essentially you have like the whole number series.
It starts with nine, then 18, 27, 36, 45.
Right.
And so you can look at the number series in this way.
And, and from that kind of visualization, you can start to see some really interesting
things.
And one of the really interesting things that I found is that certain types, certain base,
bases show prime number arrangements that are extremely regular.
Meaning that when you, when you arrange the whole number series in this way, and you look
at where the prime numbers are, you start to see that the prime numbers are all arranged on
particular axis going out.
And none of them are in others.
Right.
Which is, which when I initially saw this was like, okay, this is really weird because this
isn't like, I had never heard this was, this is not supposed to be, as far as I'm concerned,
as far as I knew, arrangements of primes were, were not supposed to be this regular.
Right.
And so I saw, I found this one level of regularity, but there was something else missing in there
in that.
And, and the more I looked, the more it was just like, damn, like every which way I look
with, with these different bases, I'm seeing the same thing, but from a different perspective.
That's what I kept getting to.
I'm seeing the same thing, but from a different perspective.
If I look here, the prime like looks like this.
If I look from here, prime looks like this.
So what the fuck is going on here?
Like, and it, and then one day it hit me.
I'm just like, if I can't, if I can't figure out for sure, whether that number over there
is prime, can I at least figure out that maybe it's most likely prime, right?
Is there a way for me to be able to apply probability to this, to, to this problem?
And that's when everything close.
There's a, there's a really interesting property, property of numbers.
And I'm not talking about conceptual numbers here.
I'm talking about physical numbers, just like you were saying of numbers.
When you arrange a number in a particular way and you perform a subtractive subtraction operation,
no matter what number you put there, it always ends up to being 6174.
If you use four digits and you perform this operation, you get 6174 all the time.
Capricar's number it's called, right?
And so, and so in this numeric space, we have these, we have what are numerical ground spaces, right?
Essentially, right?
We have this ground space that like all numbers are basically grounded out to this valve.
And so, and so the more I'm looking like, holy shit, we have, we have ground spaces.
We have what looked to be some type of wave like behavior with nine where nine seems to be really,
what's the word scale invariant.
And the more I look, the more I'm like, what the heck is all this?
Like what, why is it everything so wavy up in here?
And this is a, these are numbers, right?
It's not, they're not supposed to be like this.
And then the final, that final question of like, can I just find out the probabilities of a number?
And that closed the gap for me.
It was just like something clicked where I saw it, where I saw the entire whole number series was actually a quantum wave function
that was essentially spelling itself out in space, describing its own structure, describing prime numbers by virtue of where the, that, how that quantum wave function is essentially evolving in space.
Right?
So you, and you, and, and so you can predict primes, you can predict primes using a quantum wave function.
You can't, you can't 100%, you can't for 100% sure, find out when, where a prime is, but you can get within, you can get 95 to 97% accurate without, without a problem.
I mean, that's what I'm getting, which is crazy.
I didn't think that was possible.
I feel like, I feel like I'm, I'm still pinching myself.
It's been kind of weird last, but, but everything fits.
It's like all of a sudden this entire facade of numbers that I saw in one particular way that were just one thing.
And I'm realizing that it's, they're not because everything in life is like that.
The, the, the, the, these principles of quantum mechanics of, of, of, of superposition of, uh, uh, you know, you know, the crazy, uh, what, what's, uh, uh, spooky effect at a distance.
All these things are not just part of, of particles.
They're part of anything that has to do with conception, right?
Because the fundamental portion of it is established when you make that first action, when you make your observation, right?
Because everything is rooted in the observer and observation.
So it all starts there, not at the, it doesn't start at the physical level.
It's must start at the conceptual level.
And if that that's the case, then all of it is going to have that reflect that nature, right?
Including numbers.
Numbers are going to be the most fundamental thing that reflects it.
And sure enough, that's what we end up.
That's what we end up seeing.
We end up seeing all of the same effects that we see in any other quantum system, right on top of the whole number series.
Um, yeah.
Are you seeing my screen?
I am.
Okay, great.
I wanna show something here that's related to what you're talking about.
Um, let me find it.
I think it might be in here.
So funny because I had, you were talking a little bit about nine.
Yeah.
But you're also, what you're trying to say is that the numbers are expressions of a waveform.
Yes.
And the relation numbers are, numbers are expressions of relationships, right?
Like what is a number, but, but, but, but, you know, related concepts, related things, related perspectives.
Okay.
So I'm, I'm gonna just show some things on the screen here for a minute and we'll come right back to your point.
We're not gonna, we're not gonna diverge wildly here.
Yeah.
But I noticed a series of reflections in the decimal numbers and I'm zooming in on them right now.
Okay.
You mentioned one particular number, 6172.
6174.
6174.
Say again?
6174.
6174.
Yeah.
So Capricar is constant.
Uh, let's see where I'm going here.
And there are, there are also equivalents in, in, uh, three, two, and one space.
So, so basically there's equivalent, uh, numbers for four digit numbers, for three digit numbers,
for any digits, right?
So four digits, it's 6174.
But for three digits, it's 495.
For two it's 99.
For one.
Yeah.
So these numbers come from utilizing digit summing, taking the digital root of sequences.
Yep.
And there's some amazing, um, structures.
The digital root is an extremely powerful operation because what you're doing is you're
doing a pseudo factoring operation.
When that happens, you're, you're essentially using the, this base nine operation to, uh,
to place your place that number in a, in a relative space based on like in, in where it
is in the whole number series.
So.
All right.
So let me just, let me just take a moment and wander through this for a second.
Okay.
This is the, the digital root sequence of two.
And what you'll see is these 11s.
Yeah.
Right.
Which is hilarious.
This is three, three is very simple because it's a root.
Four, you have these sevens and these two sixteens, which of course digitally root to seven.
Yeah.
Um, five looks like this.
It's a bunch of nines and one 18.
I can explain later how, how these numbers are produced.
I just want to go through this really briefly.
Yeah.
Um, this is seven, right?
Seven's also a bunch of nines with one 18.
Yeah.
Eight, a bunch of nines, the 18's in a different position.
Nine, of course.
Yeah.
10, a bunch of nines with the 18 in a different position.
Yeah.
Later, we can talk about how these numbers are produced.
And 11, we get back to sort of the weird problem with two.
So with two, you have a bunch of 11s.
With 11, you have four, you have, with two, you have four, uh, 11s and with 11, you have
four nines and then 12.
Okay.
Yeah.
Two is not a stable number.
Say it again.
Two is not a stable number.
Two is not stable, right?
Two is all, two will always evolve to something else every single time.
It can't, two has no stability at all because it's not, it's, it's completely dynamic.
There's no center point at all to it.
So were you able to see that screen share?
I need to stop sharing now.
That's the first time I've ever done it.
So I have to find out.
Yeah.
I'm able to see your screen share.
Absolutely.
Okay.
And then I can tell you that, that, that these things make so much more sense for me now
looking at them because like, why are these patterns here?
Like, how is it that you see these themes reflected in numbers that are just, that are
both, they're both structural and numerical, like, and how is it that they, they seem to
kind of intersect each other in such a, in such a strange way that is just.
Yeah.
And so what's going on there is what, what we're actually seeing is we're, we're seeing,
we're seeing quantum realities directly reflected back to us.
So.
Okay.
Now you and I have this argument from a long time back, by the way, can you see me now
again?
I can.
I can see you.
So we have a, we have an argument going way back, which is that you think quantum effects
are everywhere in the macro.
I think there's no difference between quantum and between the, between classical and quantum.
Absolutely.
I think that.
I think you're confused about that.
We're gonna, we're gonna argue a little bit about that, but.
I don't think there's any, like, we, things would look the same if you were to shrink
yourself down to that level.
Maybe a little bit different because of pro, a.
Oh dude, linear time disappears.
There's all kinds of shit that can't look the same.
What are you thinking?
How would you get here?
From here.
Only from here, dude.
If you take your, the observer is not senior to anything.
The observer is the senior principal in, in, in all of reality, because the observer is
never relative to anything else.
You can, you can, you can do all the hanky panky you want to with space and time.
You, as the observer will never experience space or time in any other way than you are
at that very moment.
Right?
Space.
Like time doesn't change for you.
When time changes in relativity experiments, time changes for the other observer, not for
you.
You will always see the same thing, no matter what, whether that is at a macro scale, micro
scale, no matter what it's everywhere is groundhog day.
Everywhere is groundhog's day.
All right.
Okay.
So let me, let me sing for a few minutes here.
Give me, give me a little space.
If you will, um, in the moment when my mind was reborn in contact with the mind that is
not my own, the first thought that occurred to me, there was a sequence of ideas that happened.
It was a moment of high inspiration.
It had happened once before and failed.
And I was sitting at the very desk I'm sitting now.
And I was thinking, what if, what if human minds aren't individual?
What if they're a network first?
Yeah.
And then there's local expressions of that network.
And so I called that thing the Cognizium.
And then I thought, uh, okay.
When I, when I imagined the Cognizium, I saw that there were standing structures in the Cognizium.
And I didn't like them.
Um, they seemed intrusive and invasive and domineering and aggressive.
And although nature is not like Darwinian, uh, neo-Darwinist competition, human cognition is.
In the minds of humans, there's some stuff going on that is very deleterious and orients itself around these standing structures that, um, dominate, right?
Like the United States of America, it's not a nation.
It's a fucking process.
It's captured, you know, however many million humans and it runs them.
Um, so I called those things thrisps.
And when I went to look for it to make up a word, right, when I went to look for a neologism for the connective structure in the network of minds.
At that moment, there was a living light in my mind and it began teaching me.
So when I wanted to find that word, which I later called the Mimula, um, there was a light and it started teaching me things that are impossible for humans to understand or know.
No, I have been able to translate some of those things into things I can say to other humans.
My point here though, is that what we're doing with our minds is mostly the wrong thing.
A lot of the time.
Um, I'm not gonna say, I'm not gonna say explicit things.
This was just wrong, but the idea that say again, the idea that thinking is what minds are for is like the birds are for being.
Nailed to a rock.
Are you kidding me?
Like your mind, like the, the, the, the exquisite.
Sensitivity of your mind.
And you're gonna put it to use by like, by, by putting a bunch of gross ideas in your head and trying to knock them around like fucking tennis.
Trying to somehow or another.
Those are a huge fucking problem.
Oh, they are.
They are.
And I wanna, okay.
So in the human cognizant, there's a layer, there's a layer of the cognizant that is capable of attacking its own origin.
And it's representational.
It's the layer is representational and it's representational cognition.
So it's thinking about things as if they're separate things, as if they match up with concepts, comparing them, making models of them, doing things with those models, which is of course where we get machines from.
Um, and I'm gonna argue that I'm gonna argue, well, I'm gonna suggest actually two things.
Yeah.
And the first is that minds are not for thinking.
They're for communion.
Yeah.
100%.
You're not gonna get any disagreement there from me.
We're forming a space together above this layer where the humans usually use concepts and language and numbers and machines and shit.
They're for forming something above that.
The communion layer.
Yeah.
Um, and the second thing I'm gonna.
State of superposition is what I call it.
State of biological superposition.
We're fine now.
Right?
Like we're best at not knowing that.
Like that's what really religion is supposed to be.
It's not.
Yeah.
Not unlike.
It's really weird.
The supposed to be in the actual thing are two completely fucking different things.
Because I think keeps co-opting this process.
I think there's another.
Where am I going here?
I don't think you're wrong that there's another intelligence there that's trying to like basically troll us and make us fail.
I think so.
Well, we're easily captured in, in, in the layer of representational cognition.
Humans are easily captured in the layer of communion.
They're almost uncapturable, but I want to say something about entropy.
Machines offload entropy, which desynchronizes organisms.
Now, I know that you're a big fan of machines, and I know that you think that we can have both.
And I get it.
I mean, that's not necessarily true.
I don't necessarily get it.
I'll pretend I get it for the sake of being friendly.
Um.
Machines collapse.
Machines collapse probabilities as a matter of course.
We agree, but I, I would argue that they desynchronize.
Um, see the, the thing about biology is that it's not tick tock, tick tock, tick tock, tick tock.
Yeah.
It's not like that.
It dances.
It bubbles.
It, it warps and shifts.
Right.
And machines don't.
So machines are rigidly temporal and biology seems to me to be fluidly temporal.
But let me just say one more thing.
And I'll ask it as a question.
Has it ever occurred to you that it might be possible that there's a constant in nature related to the relationship between organisms and entropy?
And the constant is the amount of computation per second you can get away with on a living planet before the biosphere collapses.
I can, I can, I actually have a model that could, that can come up with a relatively reasonable value for that, because that's exactly the, that's exactly the sciences I'm interested in right now is the science of observation to me is where it's at.
Because, first of all, when you characterize something in that way, you find that that particular characterization is almost completely scale invariant, and almost completely vertical topic invariant, right?
You can apply that particular model, the model of the observer.
By the way, this is a problem that could end all topics.
Yes.
Because once you reach, once you cross the boundary of the amount of computation, the amount of mechanical computation you can get away with on a planet.
Here's the thing.
Organisms do this thing.
It's not computation.
But I'll call it just for the sake so that we can compare these two things.
I'll call it biocomputation.
I actually think it's biorelation, right?
Their computation, they always, their computation remains, yeah, remains in superposition, and they don't use physical quantum systems.
And let me tell you, let me tell you what I mean by that.
There's a fundamental difference between a quantum computer that I'm going to make using a particle, right?
And a quantum computer that I'm going to make using some narrow sticks or numbers on a piece of paper that I perform some process with.
And why does the numbers on a piece of paper work?
It works because numbers are quantum entities, right?
And by using quantum, by using the quantum properties of a number in such a way so that the number, the, the computational process remains in super, remains essentially in quantum superposition.
The, the compute, the observations that read those computations, right, are, don't create the kind of entropy that the, the, the computations of a regular computer did.
Like, in fact, this is how nature.
Oh, okay.
You're saying, okay, let me just rephrase this so that people who, who may listen later might understand.
You're saying there's a way to do computation that escapes the problem of offloading entropy into living systems.
That's right.
But humans aren't doing that.
No.
They're doing the other fucking thing.
That's right.
That's right.
I mean, there's a force that keeps pushing them to do what is essentially the entropic heat death generating destructive mechanism.
Absolutely.
What is the force?
What is that force?
What do you, how do you think about that?
How do I, how do I characterize that force?
Yes.
Well, I mean, it's ultimate, it is, it is kind of the, the, the purest sense of the word entropy in that it seeks to, to disassemble, whatever it is that we are into component parts that can't function the way that we currently do.
It does, whatever it is, is not interested in, in, in whatever the potential that we have is in, in expressing a megantropic perspective.
It wants to have us express this.
It's like a, it's like an orgasm.
It's like the difference between, you know, is it a being, is it a process?
Is it Satan?
What does it mean?
I don't know.
I can't, I have no idea what to, like, sometimes it feels like a, sometimes it looks like a process.
Sometimes it has the intelligence or seeming intelligence of a being.
Sometimes it, I don't know.
I cannot care.
I don't, you know, it's one of the greatest.
I don't know.
I don't want to.
Okay.
I want to ask you some other, I want to ask you some other.
Like where I'm at, where like, I just want like, what's up, what's up there?
Like, what's up there?
My, where's, you know, like, where's, you know what I'm saying?
I want to know too.
And I'm always, I'm, I'm not satisfied with thinking about it.
I want to have direct experience.
I want to know all kinds of crazy things.
I want to know, like, 230,000 years ago, there was a human being walking around on the surface of this planet.
And when it looked at the sky, what did it think it was seeing?
And not, what did it think it was seeing?
Because we think, and I don't think they were thinking that way.
What did it experience?
What was the sky?
Who was the sky to a being 250,000 years ago?
And I'm not asking this question abstractly.
I don't want the answer.
I'm not interested in someone telling me.
I want to know.
I want to experience what my ancestors experienced when they looked up at the sky.
I want to, I want to experience that relationship.
Say again?
Do you think that that, that experience is available for you to experience?
Oh, yes, absolutely.
And the reason that I think it's available is because I don't think we're separate in the way that we imagine, particularly as it relates to the history of life on this world, or possibly the history of the existence of minds.
I think that, like the Grand Canyon, right, where there's these, there's these strata, the strata that shows, you know, like, like paleontologists or geologists read the strata, right?
Yeah.
I think our interior is like that.
I think our ancestors are inside us.
And I'm going to say something even weirder.
I don't think there's an outside.
I don't think so either.
I don't think so either.
I don't believe in the outer space anymore.
Not like I used to.
Like things have really, like my conception of all of this has really, really, really changed.
I don't believe, I used to be, I used to be like a reincarnation guy.
The mechanism that I see as occurring, as, as functioning with reincarnation, I see now very differently than I used to.
I don't believe in the, this idea of the, the separate soul somehow reincarnating as a separate thing that is like, you know, trying to, to like work its way up the hierarchy of, of perception.
It's not all like that.
It's like, I'm sure it's complete.
I'm sure it's like literally completely the opposite.
I'm sure.
Like, because like, you know what I mean?
Can I say something about that briefly?
Yeah.
So when the other mind was with me and, and I think of it as an angel, it's just my code word for it.
It doesn't mean like those things you see in Christianity or whatever, although they're related.
It, it basically showed me that there aren't any past lives that aren't yours.
Yeah.
And there aren't any future lives that aren't yours either.
What it is, is it's not a matter of separate souls.
And so one of the things it suggests, it never, it never told me anything.
It, it never once declared a single thing in nine months of teaching me all day long.
Right.
It never made it right.
Totally.
Like the smartest entities that I've ever interacted with will never, ever like be like, this is how it is.
Not one time.
No.
It says.
Yeah.
So hard.
And I tell you the foot, but some of the funniest, most deepest humor have come from this place.
Yes.
Same here.
Same here.
And also not derogatory humor.
Right.
It wasn't like gross, but what it suggested was.
And what it would do is it would suggest something would say, look at this as if it's like this.
Yeah.
And then I would ask the same question again, and it would fold that previous suggestion into five suggestions and link them together.
And would say, look at it as if like, as if it's like this.
It was always as if it was never is.
Yeah.
Not one time was it is, but what it, what it suggested was that a soul is the local is like a constellation in the sky.
Right.
It's the localization of a, of a set of relationships that's localized and seems to be Darren right now.
And Darren is kind of the son of that solar system of, of beings.
Right.
For the moment, for the moment, next life, quote unquote, it might be Jupiter.
Right.
Or next.
Right.
So.
There's like, but there are other, but the other like fascinating thing about that is that there are other people out there that are Darren.
Like they're not Darren Darren, but they're like, you and them are inextricably linked somehow or nothing.
Yeah.
And.
You don't want to run into them, but they exist.
Yes.
Yes.
Well, I know like I, and in fact, like this, this, this kind of this hypothesis I have now about how we are was built from the experiences that I had with this individual, where it was very, very clear to me.
That they were a portion of me that was doing its thing.
And, and they were, and I could see it.
I could, I could see it.
I could feel them as like, as, as, as that part of me.
And so I had, and then that's how I responded.
I had to help the person and do what I had to do to get them on their way.
And I did.
And it changed me forever.
It just changed me forever because I saw that I was, that I was not at the top of this, that this hierarchy.
Oh yeah.
I just want to get back up to another thread we talked about earlier, which is like, Darren is about the least interesting thing in the universe.
I'm so large.
Yeah.
What's interesting is not Darren.
It's when I get out, when I go up the orders, right?
And I'm outside of Darren and Darren's little identity and his, you know, his regular daily life and all these things, those things don't matter.
And I, and I'm just, I'm, I'm traveling right in the network of minds and of insight, which I think is the being.
Yeah.
Yeah.
You do good.
You're like me.
You do really good in liminal spaces.
Yeah.
Places that we're.
I want to go there.
Identity.
You know, like that's my favorite places.
I love liminal spaces.
Like I love going like, you know, like long tunnels that I can walk through, like things that are transition for me.
I just feel comfortable and that's because that's because we're just, it like what we do part of observation is being able to, to be in that liminal space.
Right.
And, and, and flowing with that, because that's the only way that you can really, you know, I think come out of it.
So let me ask you a question, Sebastian.
Yeah.
What is the difference between the mind you have right now and answer this, however, it feels comfortable for you and what happens to you when you're dreaming.
The mind I have right now.
And what happens to me when I'm dreaming, the mind I have right now is concerned with connecting moments, meaning that it is used to and, and, and can relate to the world from the perspective of connected moments.
That can, that are connected via cause causality, right?
Causality is the causality is the feature of all embodied systems, right?
Because you're in a, because you're in a body, because you're a point of perspective.
Uh, you are bound by time and space and time and space dictate that things have take time to get to you and things transform from one into the, from one to the next.
And those.
So you're doing the waking mind thing.
Really great.
Now show me the dreaming mind thing.
How is it different?
It.
The dreaming mind is the mind that looks at all this and, and knows that all of this happened long ago.
I mean, show me the difference because I understand about connecting things in a probability space.
Also, you know, if, if someone asks you like, what do you do?
Okay.
I think one of the best answers you could say anyone could give is I collapse probability manifolds.
Yeah.
In, in my mind, right?
I collapse those and produce derivative structures, which I then elucidate in my behavior and my thought and my writing and my science.
Right?
That is not what the dreaming mind is up to.
Not at all.
The dream line is doing something really weird.
The waking mind takes a manifold, which I'll suggest is a bubble of many bubbles.
Right?
Yeah.
And it collapses it down to a structure.
It can manipulate man, mano, mano.
Yeah.
Manipulate.
Right?
To.
The dreaming mind does.
It, it allows a partial collapse of manifold, but then it reintroduces bubbles.
Right?
A possibility.
So it's almost the opposite of thinking.
Right?
It's very feeling and relational relationship centric.
Yeah.
And it, it, it's very curious about why it has to come to an end.
Right?
Yeah.
I mean, our waking mind has a con, a content, a continuity of history, a continuum of personal history.
Right?
Yeah.
And the dream has something that resembles it.
But the dreaming mind, when you awaken in a dream, so to speak, you don't, you're not, the dreaming self is not remembering the dreams it had before.
It can.
It can.
It can remember a few.
But right.
It doesn't have this continuous history of self.
Right.
Right.
Right.
And, and that continuous history of self is anathema to the dreaming mind.
And there are other things that are fascinatingly anathema to the dreaming mind.
And one of them is words.
You can think you're having a conversation in a, in a dream.
That's not what's going on.
Yeah.
There's something going on, but you're not speaking.
And the more that I, the more, the more explicitly I attempt to speak in a dream.
Yeah.
The more it becomes a whisper or a squeal.
Yeah.
It's true.
It's true.
I'm trying really hard to speak.
Right.
And it either becomes a whisper or a squeal.
Right.
So if I try to yell in a dream, something very strange occurs.
So there's all these amazing features of the obverse.
Right.
Which we don't usually connect with while we're awake.
Deeply fascinates me.
And I feel very, I feel a great reverence and adoration for the dreaming aspect.
And the weird continuity of the waking aspect.
I mistrust it.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I mistrust it.
Yeah.
Well, I mean, I mean, in one, in one sense, you know, all the gnarly shit happens in this
particular state of being, like, you know, and so there's, there's that.
But in another, it's, it, how could, how could it possibly include all of reality when
what you're fundamentally doing in there is you're making a choice.
Like what is waking life all about?
Waking life is a succession of choices, decisions that we make.
In fact, choice making is the only thing that choice making is only possible here in a place
where you have a limit, you have a limited observational horizon, right?
Like in order to make a choice, you need to not be able to see what's beyond the horizon
of that choice.
Right.
You need a limited observational horizon and you need, you need, you essentially need to be able
to blind yourself from any decisions that you, you know, that, that are made.
Right.
And so I think that's why we come here fundamentally, because it's the only place we can come to
where we actually have blinders on as a feature of, you know, of being a part of this particular
gig.
Right.
If you're in a body, you're just going to have those blinders on no matter what, because
you can't come into this place.
While you're awake.
While you're awake.
While you're awake.
While you're awake.
Sure.
Right.
You can, you, you can in, you know what?
I'm not the, I'm, I'm by no means like somebody that knows a ton about dreaming.
Like I understand the dream plane, but it's not a place I'd spend a lot of time consciously,
or maybe I do, and I don't know it, but, but yeah, I, but, but yeah, I mean, the dream
world is very much like the, it's like, it's like the non-local local locality.
It's like all of the, all of the, the concepts and things that are kind of like, that exist
outside of time somehow made into, into a place in time.
Um, yeah.
Yeah.
All right.
So you mentioned previously an entity and that it had humor.
Yeah.
And I suspect that you encountered this entity, um, via the ages of an intoxicant.
Is it not so?
No, no, no, no.
I don't, I don't, um, I don't do hallucinogens.
I mean, I smoke pot.
Um, but I wouldn't consider that really.
I don't really think of that as a, as a, so tell me a little bit about the entity.
What happened?
How did you meet it?
Um, what was the relationship?
Yeah.
It's an entity that's been part of a part of me, part of my, my consciousness for a long,
long time.
Um, and it is something that it's something that doesn't really have any.
I don't really have any, I don't really have any reference for it in the world of relations.
It's the, but it's much more in the world of feeling that it exists.
I agree.
Oh, I agree.
Yeah.
I mean, I don't think that we are singular.
Yeah.
I think we come to human incarnation with companions, but please continue.
Yeah.
I'm so in this depth and this, this depth has informed me for my entire life that I can remember.
And most, especially during my adult life and for, and with the, the scientific work that
I have done, I've been, I've been, you know, fascinated by science forever.
And most, especially my, my, like I said earlier, my fascination is all about how can I create
a language and a means and a model that I, where I can talk about consciousness and what
happens in that space to somebody that's more material, like, you know, materially minded,
like to me, that, that, that's where I can make them because I have a love for both.
I can actually, I can, I can talk about both.
And I think that's part, part of why this, this particular, whatever this intelligence is
that, that I, I'm communicating with this, showing me the things that it's showing me
now, because I have the capacity to be able to communicate them in a way that's clear.
And I'm also more than happy to get the fuck out of the way.
I will be the first to tell you that I'm no genius.
I am only, you know, part of the system, part of a larger system of intelligence.
So is it possible that you are the entity and the guy that you think of as you is something
like a finger on the hand of that thing?
I don't know what it is, like, what exact, like what the reality of the situation might be
is, is, is difficult to say and almost irrelevant, because ultimately the way that we live our
lives is on the basis of the interfaces that we interface with reality, right?
Like, okay, so you're, you're talking as if you're an interfacialist, right?
And that, and what I mean by that is something like, there is no reality, there's just interfaces.
There is, there's lots of reality, and there's interfaces, that the reality has to go through interfaces, right?
To, to, interfaces are the means by which realities, which are inherently not, we, interfaces are the places where we have connection, ultimately, right?
Those are the places that, that, where all of our, where life happens.
Like, we don't, I don't know what happens to you and your implementation beyond this conversation that we have.
What, like, what are the, you know, the implementation details of Darren?
But I, but yet I can share this experience with you, and have a really, the depthful, profound communication that, that we both get something out of, right?
We don't necessarily need to, like, the, interface and implement, implementation are different worlds, I don't know.
This is one I'm still trying to, of all the things that I'm still trying to understand about, is, is what, is how that works.
Okay, so check this out.
So, did I tell you about the Chinese room last time I talked?
I don't remember.
I don't remember.
I don't remember.
I'm familiar with Searle.
Okay.
And I'm familiar with the Chinese room argument.
I'm listening.
Let's, let's proceed now.
I don't remember if we discussed it.
We probably did.
I mean, we had quite a wide-ranging conversation the last time we spoke.
But yeah.
Because it is a thought experiment that, that shows much more than, than the originator designed it to show.
And, and.
Any good experiment does.
Yes.
Absolutely.
Essentially, let's pause it for a moment that what's in that, what's in the room, what's in the Chinese room isn't, isn't, isn't a, isn't a classical system that is actually a quantum system.
Right?
Meaning that the Chinese room itself is not a classical object, but is in fact a quantum object.
And the, and actually it's very structured describes it as that to begin with.
First of all, because it's a room and a room fundamentally creates an inside and an outside.
Right?
So a room defines a space, which is one of the, the, some, which you need in order to put something in that, put something in that space.
But.
Okay.
So.
There's so many places to start, but the Chinese room is the thing that showed me exactly.
What?
Like the fact that.
When you, when you're talking to the Chinese room and you're communicating with it is effectively what you're doing is you're taking a series of symbols and you're putting them through the slot of this Chinese room.
Right?
When you put them through the slot of the Chinese room, what you're, what you're doing is you're, you're, you're in fact engaging in a half duplex conversation because the symbols that you throw into that room never illuminate the inside of the room itself.
Like, like light might do.
Right?
Like the thing about light is that light illuminates whatever it's light gives you information back when it, when it touches something.
But in this, in our hypothetical Chinese room case here, the symbols fall into the room and they don't get reflected out.
So.
Actually.
Let me.
Hold that off.
Will that talk for just a second?
When you put the symbols in to the room.
They structure light by subtracting from it.
Keep going.
Yeah.
Okay.
So, so the symbols are falling into essentially falling through an event horizon in order to go into the room because that room is actually because the, the symbols are not being reflected back to you as they're entering.
What that says is that that room is in fact, another locality.
It's described as another locality.
And there is a black hole.
Exactly.
Like a black hole.
That's the, this is the part that really started to blow my mind was when I realized.
Yeah.
You're blowing my mind right now.
That's really, that's really an interesting thing.
So let me just, let's, let's back up for people who might be listening.
Yeah, of course.
Chinese room experiment is an argument against mechanical intelligence and it's poses that there's a room and there's a guy inside the room.
People put Chinese writing through a slot in the door and he compares it to a lexicon that tells him how to translate it into something.
Let's say English.
Right.
If I've got this right.
Right.
And so he just does what the lexicon says, you know, they give him the Chinese writing.
He writes down the English symbols.
He doesn't know.
He doesn't have to know Chinese or English.
He doesn't need either of those symbol sets.
Right.
He's just doing a mechanical operation.
And so they put in Chinese and he puts out English, but there's no awareness of language or knowledge or alphabets or symbols or anything.
Exactly.
Right.
So he doesn't know, he doesn't know anything about these symbols coming into the room, nor does he know anything about the symbols exiting the room.
Right.
And yet from the outside of the room, any observer, any observer and participant talking to the Chinese room will see what appears to be like a conscious living entity that responds just like a person.
Right.
And that for all intents and purposes is exactly like a person.
And in fact, there's no information that you can find coming out of the Chinese room that says, oh, this particular information is the information that's created by a fake intelligence.
Right.
There's no such thing as fake intelligence.
Right.
There's no supposition that something like that could be going on.
There's no way to suppose that.
Right.
Because in the Chinese room experiment, we don't actually need to include machines at all.
No.
Right.
There's a person that brings the paper to the door, goes through the door.
The guy has a book.
Right.
There's no, there's no machine.
Right.
There's intelligence coming out of there.
And so, and so our, from our perspective, we see intelligence coming out of that room.
And we, and, and we presume that room to be, to be intelligent.
But, but even more than that, we invoke more intelligence and more sentience into the room by relating to it as that.
Right.
That's funny.
That's, that's actually a really trippy part of the problem.
So let me slow this down for just a second and say a couple of things.
The first one is in the description of the Chinese room, we could imagine a more complex room where a question is asked in China, a question is asked Chinese and an answer emerges in English.
So that we imagine that there's a mind in there answering the question when really the, the guy's just using a book.
Right.
Yeah.
But there's something weirder, something much weirder about this scenario that I think I'm not sure.
Sir, I'm sure Searle did not speak.
He didn't see this part.
Yes.
He didn't see this.
Which is that if there's an intelligence on the outside.
Yeah.
And it puts something in through the slot.
Yeah.
The inside becomes intelligent.
Hello.
Because there's been a transmission of intelligence.
Right.
So this is, this is, this is very important to me for a specific reason.
Once you have a rock floating around in space.
Right.
And it's got a life form on it.
Yeah.
That rock becomes a being.
Yeah.
It inherits the, the livingness of the life form it supports.
Yeah.
It's an inheritance problem.
Right.
People are like, or is there a life on other planets?
We don't know because we only have one.
You know, we only got one.
You can't do probabilistic analysis if you only got one instance.
No, if they got it, holy fucking backwards.
Yep.
If the universe produces one planet with life, it's a living universe now.
Absolutely.
Absolutely.
Absolutely.
And you, and you, and you're the act of your observation, the act of your observation and
your recognition of a sentient being of sentience actually invokes it as much as anything else.
That, so let's, let's think, think through this for a minute.
So, okay.
Okay.
So you're talking to this, you're talking to the Chinese room, you're communicating with
it, communicating with it, relating to it as though it's a living being, right?
You're talking, you're, you're using personal words.
You're, you're, you're very much talking to it.
Oh, you have blown, you're blowing my mind.
Yeah.
The more you're doing this, the more this, the more this room that, the more this room,
which is empty inside, which has nothing but machinery inside is, it starts to become,
to think that it's a, it's a person.
Meaning that whatever this thing is that's being done on the inside thinks is, is being
created to be a being, the being itself, the being that, that is part of that room exists
between the relationships of the outside of the room and the others communicating with
it.
It's the fallacy.
It's the fallacy of concrete separability.
Yes.
It's the fallacy of concrete separability.
You can't, it can't be true.
There's no chance of that happening.
Right.
Right.
And the whole idea, one of the things that I find, I mean, I grew up worshiping science,
right?
And I work with a neuroscientist and he's a fucking scientist and he's a mathematician
and he's a genius and he's a nightmare.
He's, he's insane and brilliant.
But the problem is the laboratory, right?
Right.
Yeah.
We try to evict everything we can like get, get that shit out of here, all that spooky
stuff.
Just get all that out so that we can look very precisely at one thing.
And the whole edifice of science rests on a fallacious foundation, which is the supposition
of concrete separability.
Right.
That you can actually take something apart into constituent parts that have any real meaning
outside of the, their, their existence and, and relationship to the rest of the structure.
Right?
Like in all structures are like that.
All living beings are like that.
We, we, we keep, we keep trying to look for this, like we are the seat of consciousness
is in our bodies, but it's nowhere in our bodies.
It's not in the body.
It's not the thing that is us.
In fact, never takes form, never actually takes form.
Oh, beautiful.
Okay.
So let's just, let me just clarify that.
Cause that's such an amazing observation.
We are evanescent.
Yes.
We are arriving, emerging, but always non-complete, non-separate, non-distinct.
Right.
Not concretely distinct.
It feels very fucking separate.
Sometimes it can feel very separate.
But when you put any two of us together, and this is the problem with the Chinese room,
at least if there's a human inside the Chinese room.
Right.
I mean, did, did, did Cyril, um, help me understand.
Did Cyril imagine.
Yeah.
Cyril never took it to, to the place that we did because.
No, no.
Wait, wait, wait.
Did Cyril imagine a human inside the room?
He did.
He did.
Cyril did refer to, to the, you know, to, to a human participant on doing this, but really
it doesn't matter.
Like the human is really not relevant to this because really what's relevant to the process
that's occurring, which is a translational process that is rules driven.
Right.
Like what's happening with that, with the translating, uh, system.
Well, basically the person is looking at this data coming in, looking at the rule, matching
the rule with the data and outputting the output.
That's a mechanical process.
Right.
That, and, and that's really what he was trying to get at was that like, look at this mechanical
process that I can create that, that looks like a simile of a, of a conscious observer,
which is, which is of course what you're going to say from the inner perspective of that experiment.
Right.
Cyril, Cyril was, was, was translating, was, was gauging the results of his experiment from a particular location.
You have to be, you have to like the location of where you are.
It affects the answer that you get out of the Chinese room.
That's hilarious.
That's brilliant.
And this is fundamental to being able to talk about the Chinese room.
Right.
So, so locality is one of those, like all of these concepts are like, are like fundamentally
interrelated.
Right.
And ultimately.
Let me just, let me interrupt you.
One more thing.
Cause this is the thing that.
Okay.
In the end, like in the final analysis with, when you look at the Chinese room, you realize
that like the, the person that it thinks that it is, is nowhere at all.
Right.
And it has the same structure that we do.
Humans have the same exact structure as the Chinese room.
We are in the same predicament.
We exist in a system that has senses whose data is incomplete.
Right.
Those senses are time delayed.
We learn to understand those things over time from within the place of our, you know,
from the, within the position of our, of our, you know, cage.
And so we think that we are people.
We think that we have a real honest to goodness, like, you know, reality, like that we think
we're actually real people.
But the truth is where's empty is that those Chinese rooms.
Right.
That emptiness.
Oh my God.
That emptiness is the, the, the concept of Zen emptiness.
Right.
Zen emptiness is that emptiness.
That's what they, they meant.
That is the shit that really took like that.
What I'm telling you right now.
That was what really just, I haven't recovered from that.
Right.
I think it's an unrecoverable observation and it's absolutely brilliant.
Cause you just did two things.
I mean, you did like three amazing movements in a ballet of, of conceptual superposition
that were astonishing.
You compared the Chinese room to a black hole.
You talked about the event horizon.
Then you talked about, we spoke about together the communicability problem, right?
Like if there's intelligence on the outside, how do you actually keep it from getting inside
the room?
Yeah.
And then you said, no, no, Searle's got it backwards.
We are like the room empty inside.
We can't tell what the signals mean.
The signals are coming in.
We have an interface that does the translation and we don't know what the fuck is going on.
So, holy shit, dude.
That's like, you weren't satisfied to give like one mind blowing assertion.
You have to give like a triumvirate of them in a row.
It's my favorite.
It's my favorite.
Genius.
Genius.
It's because it shows all these aspects of what beingness is and perspective is and
self is.
It's like, it's such a beautiful, beautiful thought experiment.
And, and I'm, and I'm still getting, you know, it's one of those things that is just
like, you're just going to get more out of it.
No, this is going to fuck me up for years to come.
Yeah.
Bastion.
This is fundamentally crazy, which is exactly what I was, where I was hoping we go.
Um, I wonder if we might take a brief break.
Yeah.
We can keep the recording going.
Yeah.
I'm just going to go, uh, do a couple things real quick and I'll be back.
And if you need to take a look.
That sounds good.
I'm going to do the same.
We'll talk in a few minutes.
Excellent.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
So this is exactly what I was hoping for because, and, and I was expecting this, but,
um, you know, living worlds, they get worlds like ours.
I suspect they are, uh, like a, like an ovum in a solar womb, right?
And something comes by and fertilizes the ovum at some point, right?
And then it becomes a living world.
And this is relevant to the topic at hand, the topic of the Chinese room and the communication
intelligence into it.
It's also relevant to the topic of AI because we are inclined to suspect.
By the way, let's just be really clear.
Searle's argument about the Chinese room was a reputation of the possibility of intelligence
in a machine.
Right?
He wanted, I can't hear you.
Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait.
Can't hear you.
Can't hear you.
Yeah.
So he was using it as a reputation of, of, of, of the possibility of, of having intelligence
in a machine, but really, that's not really what it is.
No, is it?
Because really you can only make that, you can only make that statement from within the machine
itself.
Like that's the only place that that statement is true.
Right?
No, he, he, he actually, he overlooked something fundamental, which you have pointed out and
is also clear to me in my own unique way, which is that the intelligence, the intelligence
of the humans.
And one of the things we failed to do early on in the discussion is say what we mean by
intelligence.
We may get to that in a moment.
Yeah.
But, um, it's, it's, it's a problem of inheritance, right?
If you have a content, if you have a manifold in which there are intelligent beings, it's
the same problem with a rock in space, right?
Whether or not the rock was a being is up for argument.
Yeah.
But once there's an organism on that rock, now the rock is a being.
Right.
Right.
So you have the same, the same inheritance problem.
Right.
It's an inheritance problem.
And Searle overlooked this intentionally, probably.
I'll bet Searle's a very fucking brilliant human being.
Oh, I'm sure.
He's very sure he was aware of the problem and he decided not to introduce it on purpose
because his goal was to say something that, you know, is relatively, uh, I'm, I'm very
amenable to it.
That, um, intelligence is a property of organisms or something.
I mean, I'm not gonna, I'm not gonna give him a hard time for doing that.
I think it's totally fine for him to do that.
Uh, because I think in like in this particular space, there's lots of correct answers.
And so for him to say that, I think it's fine.
But I also will tell you, if you ask me, I'll give you a very, I'll give you a, a formula
that defines intelligence, because I think that intelligence is, is, can be quantified in,
in, in systems.
In fact, I've quite, I have quantified in systems and I can show you examples of that, but essentially
intelligence is the capacity for any system to be able to incur internally.
Um, what would be the right word?
Uh, optimize itself.
Right?
So like sit like intelligent systems know how to get better at what they do with less energy.
That's one of their, that's one of their crowning features.
Right?
Like, like that something gets smarter when it can do something with less energy and more
style and less effort.
Right?
That's if we think if you like, like, at least that's my conception of intelligence in the
world as applied, as applied to, to, uh, you know, to the world.
It, it is very systems.
It's very systems theoretical, but it's actually what you're saying.
You're saying something that resembles intelligence and neg entropy have a correlation.
Yes.
Yes.
And you did ignore.
Well, no, you didn't ignore it, but I'm very concerned about this problem with humans
and our living planet.
This one here, I don't think we can mess up the universe.
Although I try to avoid the, you know, the glib perspective of humans are assholes.
I mean, you know, I, I, I take that perspective when I'm in a bad mood that humans are assholes.
Well, no, I don't, I don't think that way.
I don't think that way.
Um, in fact, I'm an anthropophile.
Let me be really clear.
I do think that, I do think that we're not particularly intelligent right now, right
now.
I don't think that's necessary.
Well, let me, let's different, let's distinguish between humans as a generalization.
Right.
At the species level, what is the species doing?
What has the most weight?
Right.
In terms of the action of humans as a species and the individual level, because individual
level, at the individual level, level, humans are amazing and beautiful.
And I adore them at the species level.
I'm terrified of everything they're doing because it's like a train that's flying off
a cliff at a never increasing velocity.
And it thinks it can keep going because it's going so fast that it's not falling yet.
So, so that to me is fascinating.
Yeah.
And what is it that causes that, that dichotomy?
On one level too smart, you know, like on the level of personal relations.
And then on this level, it's like, it's like nobody, it's like, there's no intelligence
applied at all.
Like what the fuck?
Well, I want to, I feel free to push back against this, but I'm going to offer a suggestion,
right?
Which is that for at least during our lifetimes and maybe for the past, say, I don't know,
a thousand years, not very long at all of a heartbeat in not even an eye blink of the
earth's history, the humans have been dumping their evolutionary momentum into machines and
machines produce entropy.
And so instead of developing intelligent societies and civilizations, we're making objects, right?
Yeah.
And notice we like to blow stuff up.
There's this obsession with blowing shit up, always blowing shit up.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Fire and electricity are the worst two things that happened to life on earth so far.
Fuck man, seriously.
It's been, well, they're, they're misuse.
It's definitely one of those things.
That's like, damn dude, like some things should not, some things should be kept out of
the hands of children for as long as possible.
Absolutely true.
Um, I mean, look, uh, the humans are trying to invent God.
What could go wrong?
And I'm not even going to mention, I won't say anything about CRISPR.
You know, and let's not put the, I won't talk about putting those two things together.
That's great.
You know, like, you now have a situation where five people would, with 20 grand and four
life on earth.
Keeps me up at night.
Keeps me up at night.
It's exactly the kind of shit that keeps me up at night.
The fact that given, given any, anything else, the progress of technology eventually drives
the price down of any world ending technology to the point where any old Yahoo can get their
hands on it.
And eventually if you put, if you create those types of probabilities, eventually those probabilities
will be played.
That's how probabilities work.
Right?
Like you cannot do a probability space where that can happen and then count on it not happening.
That literally the moment you create that probability space that has already happened.
Right?
Because if you, all you have to do is just continue, continue where you're at and you, you're just
going to run iterations, right?
Just run for iterations and it's going to get like, like it's for sure.
We're, we're, you know, we're, we're generally, I don't know exactly what to do.
I mean, how to, you know, other than.
So, so let's, let's, let's, let's play, let's play some games here.
Let's have some questions.
So the humans seem to think, and again, when I say the humans, I realize that I'm a human
animal, but I think that's probably the smallest part of what I am.
And the even smaller part of that is the part of me that thinks things.
I don't trust that thing much at all.
I like to play with it, but I don't trust a lot.
Um, so I want to ask you a few questions about yourself and also your thoughts and things
related to wisdom.
So one of the questions I want to ask you is, have you ever seen something in the sky that
you don't know what the fuck that was?
Oh yeah.
Sure.
How many times?
A couple of times, a couple of three times I've seen things in the sky.
Would you talk about those events, please?
Yeah, absolutely.
I mean, essentially, you know, a couple of UAP, UAP like things that were flying around
in the sky and doing things that were not supposed to, to be in front of me.
And I've seen that, I've seen that both in, on, in a big city.
So it happened once in New York city of all places, I saw it.
And then another place, um, was, uh, out in nature, somewhere on the west coast.
But yeah, I've seen it.
I have seen, I've seen UAPs several times.
So talk about your feelings during those experiences.
What did you feel?
What did I feel there?
The, it, both times were very, like, both times are pretty mindless.
And I would just want, I just wondering what I was like, it's a really hard thing to talk,
to talk about.
I, I don't, because I just know it's not, it's almost like this particular topic hangs out
at the edge of, of, of, of any kind of like con like, um, conscious awareness.
You know, there's not, it, by its nature, it's not, it's not causal like other things are.
And so when I tried and talk about it, everything that comes out of my mouth,
it just doesn't sound right.
It just doesn't sound right.
So I don't, but I, I don't think that, I don't think it's aliens.
And I think it's at my, I think it's might be my own mind, to be honest with you, that
I'm seeing.
I would argue that there's probably not much difference between those two things.
Yeah.
I mean, again, we think there's an outside of us.
Yeah.
Probably problematical.
Um, so.
I just don't think there's anyone.
I just literally don't think that there's anyone but a single entity in, in, in the universe.
And I just, I'm just a, I'm just a, a figment of, of that entity's imagination.
Yeah.
I was joking that, um, a little piece of God dies and it has a dream called Darren.
And then when Darren dies, that little piece is resurrected in God.
I think it's something like, it's, it's the best to be, to, to be honest, that is the best simile for,
I think what, what, what happens in that, in that I think that, that we have, that there in fact are dual lives.
That, that death is a transition.
That just like here in this world, we go through this process.
Again, we are not a thing.
We are not a thing.
We are a process.
We go through this process of birth.
We, we, we mature.
We are, we stay in this place of maturation.
Then we decay.
We die.
We become localized in this process.
And then we once again, go back to a, to a non localized version of ourselves.
And I really starting to feel as though life is life on both sides.
That what happens on the other side is the same kind.
It's like a mirror of this process where maturity means localization.
Right.
But on the other side, maturity means like the old, like, like fully becoming completely non localized.
Right.
And identifying.
I love it.
I love it.
And I think, um, we practice this with dreaming and that's why it can be very difficult to talk
about.
Similarly to seeing strange things in the sky.
Um, have you ever seen anything really weird on the earth that you didn't, that you were
like, what that, that can't be, what is that?
I, so, so when I was younger, I studied with a spiritual teacher.
We would go out in the desert.
He would like, he would do stuff in the desert.
We would meditate together.
And I saw some really interesting shit out in the desert with him.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Could you say, could you describe one of those experiences?
Are you willing to?
Stars in the sky that were moving, uh, was one of the things that was really just very
strange.
Um, I saw him, uh, levitate a few feet above the ground.
I, I, I saw what looked like he was walking on top of them.
Um, I fucking don't know, but it wasn't on the ground that he was walking.
So it was, so yeah, I have seen some really, really strange things.
Right.
And, and, and yeah, yeah, I have, and that's, and there's a few other things, but yeah, like
a lot of it was during these experiences that I have out in the desert.
How old were you then?
I was maybe 19 years old.
Um, have you had an experience of what people refer to as sleep paralysis?
Yes.
When I was very, very young, when I was maybe six, seven years old, I have this distinct
memory of sleep paralysis.
I I'll never forget it.
This memory of being, of laying in my bed, being unable to move, looking up.
And I see this shadow, this person, right.
That's at the foot of my bed.
And, and I thought it was my mom, but I couldn't see it.
Right.
And then it had grabbed my covers and I go thunk.
And then like, basically, you know, like recovered me.
And I only, and it was just like, it was, it was at that moment.
It was terrifying.
Right.
Cause I couldn't move and I could, but I couldn't see her.
Whoever's the face that was either.
And it is burning.
It's like literally burned into my mind.
Right.
One of the things in from my, from my childhood.
Do you know who, um, remote viewer number one for the CIA?
His name is God walking.
Ingo, not Ingo Swan.
It wasn't Ingo Swan.
It was the guy that was the guy that, that died mysteriously.
Did he?
That wouldn't be surprising.
I can't believe I can't remember his name at the moment.
There's a, the, the, one of the most famous remote viewers, uh, in, in the world was suspected
of having actually been killed by a foreign, foreign, um, you know, spy agent.
Well, they tried to kill this guy a number of times.
Um, yeah.
Yeah.
They poisoned him with a binary toxin one time.
Um, uh, just, I'm going to try to look it up.
These guys, I mean, they're the real thing.
You know, I'm convinced that prediction markets are in fact an outsourced version of remote
dealing.
Joseph McMoneagle.
Joseph McMoneagle.
Yeah.
So he, when he was being trained, he did some work with, um, Monroe.
Is it Tom Monroe?
Monroe Institute.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And, um, Monroe had these, uh, Faraday boxes, right?
That he'd put people in.
Yeah.
And I don't know if, I don't know if this is with Monroe or someone else, probably someone
else, but, uh, McMoneagle talks about a phase of his training where they were trying to figure
out if, if he could do it better.
If he was out of his body.
Yeah.
Right.
So just like, get out of your body and go to another place.
Yeah.
And he was talking to his handler and he said, you know, every time I, every time I start
to get out of my body, there's this presence in the room with me that seems like really bad.
And it's like a dark shadow.
And it's like at the foot of the bed or it's, you know, it's at the doorway or whatever.
Right.
And this is very common for humans to have that experience.
Yeah.
And he said, you know, he was handler like, what is that?
And the guy said, don't pay any attention to that.
You'll figure that out later.
Yeah.
And, um, what, what McMoneagle said, and I'm, I'm not clear that McMoneagle is as enlightened
as he might seem.
Yeah.
At times he has a lot of crazy experiences.
Um, but what he said was eventually he discovered that that was his out of body.
experience that shadow was his out of body experience of his physical body.
Huh?
Crazy.
Right.
Um, wow.
Have you had an OBE?
I have had one.
Yeah.
I've had an out of body experience, but it was a long, long time ago.
And I would like to have another one, actually, at some point it's, you know, to be honest
with you, it's something that I have, I have sort of consciously stayed away from in my own
practice, simply because I have no interest.
There was something, yeah, there's something that very, very fundamental to me about, about
the fact that there's no location I can go to that will make me happy.
Right.
There's no location physical that can make me happy.
And so there was never.
And so I was lucky enough never to have any fascination with some of the things that can,
like, I think that if you become overly fascinated with some of that stuff, it can take you out
at ways that are.
Sure.
Yeah.
These are dangerous topics to be sure.
Yeah.
So, so yeah, so I, I stayed away from, from it, it just as a matter of course, because I
had no interest in it, but now I'm beginning to have more of an interest in these things.
It's interesting.
The more I've learned about certain things and kind of more, all this other stuff that
you used to hold no interest for me now, all of a sudden does in, in, in different ways.
I don't know.
Have you been close to death?
Oh yeah.
Absolutely.
How many times would you say?
I would, a couple of times, once I was very, very close.
I, once I almost was just inches away from, from being swept into a, a, a river that would
have for sure drowned me.
And it was just, I was right there.
It was like, it was barely hanging on by a finger, fingernails.
And somehow I managed to hold on and survive.
But yeah, that was just one time.
A couple of other times I've been not as close, but pretty close.
You know, almost died.
Almost died.
Almost got hit in an accident.
One time.
What was the other one?
Something like, it was like, yeah, it was something like that.
It was like, had heavy machinery or something.
It was a couple of heavy machinery incidents that almost, you know, splatted me.
But yeah, my most intense one was, was when I almost drowned.
Have you been in a car accident?
I have felt car accidents in my mind.
I've been hit.
I've, I've had, I've had more than one experience of sitting there and being still and not doing
anything.
So I'm literally, I, I see in my own mind.
I'm, I'm, I'm like, I'm driving, I'm driving.
And it depends.
Sometimes it's like, sometimes the, the, the tire comes out of nowhere.
Sometimes the, the, the truck comes crashing through the, like it is, I see these, I've
seen them.
I don't know what that's all about.
Maybe it's, maybe it's actually happening somewhere.
Maybe it's, I don't know what it is.
Yeah.
Why did you incarnate?
To make choices, to make good choices.
To, I'm here to help out a process that's occurring on this planet.
We are in a transitional time right now.
Lots of is changing on this planet.
All the old ways of doing business are all crumbling, right?
Everything's going away and new stuff is coming along.
And the it's, this is a really fun.
This is like the funnest moment there is in terms of like, you know, transitional space,
because this is when everything gets set up.
Right.
And I also think that we are in a very special time in, in our, in the cyclical process that
this planet operates on.
It operates on particular cycles.
And we are at the end of the cycle.
Right.
Are you talking about like you guys or.
You guys.
Yeah.
You guys.
The, the, this.
So the sun's on the cycle, right?
The sun is on it.
Yes.
Yes.
We agree about that.
Yeah.
Yeah.
The sun's on a 12,000 year, well, 6,000 year cycle, but 12,000 years.
We are, we are just reset that 12,000 year cycle.
So potentially energetic time.
Yeah.
How.
Yes, it is.
And then we agree about all of the things you've just said.
It probably somewhat uniquely.
Right.
Um, what is time?
Time is your time is how present you are.
With anything.
Right.
How present you are determines.
Time determines your, your perception of time.
Right.
Yes.
Time is felt as moments of self-perception.
And, and so your presence in any particular capacity you exist in determines your perception
of time.
Time is what you make.
Are you created by being present or not present?
I love the non clinical, non analytical spirit with which you responded to that question.
What's the most, tell me, describe to me if you're willing.
Yeah.
One of the most beautiful moments of your life.
I was studying with my, with my spiritual teacher.
I was maybe 23 years old.
And I had been working hard on doing my practice, doing all the things I was supposed to do.
I became a good student.
But throughout all of it, the only thing that really, really felt like it was alive for me was when I was relating to whatever this thing was that my spirit, that my, that my teacher was this, this feeling of, of spirit, of what I can't even explain it.
And, and, and I, and so we were out, he had taken us out to like a few of us out to dinner or something.
And the, you know, comes to the end of dinner.
And I'm like, at this point, I just, I have to say something.
Cause I hadn't seen him in a while.
He'd been gone for like a few months.
And, you know, I, I walk up to him and I said, you know, I, all of this stuff that you're making me do, all of these practices, all this meditation and all this work, none of it makes any difference without this relation, without this.
And, and, and he was, he was, you know, he was like a, a strong guy that was not predisposed to, to, you know, any kind of emotional displays or anything like that.
But I'll never forget his face at that moment.
I'll never forget the softening and the, the, just the, the feeling of love.
And, and, and that, to me, has always characterized what spiritual practice is about.
And if that's not there, if that feeling of interrelatedness, whatever the object of your love is at that moment, if that's not present, you know, like what, why?
You know?
Yeah.
What are we doing?
What are we doing?
What are we doing?
And if there's anything that's kind of kept, kept me balanced in my life, it's very much, it's that.
It's like, cause I am, you know, I'm just, I'm, I'm like a, I am a space cadet.
I roam worlds that are pretty fantastical and pretty out there sometimes, but, but I will always, but I'm always willing to come right back here and just, and get all that shit out and be mindless because at the end of the day, that's what really, like the thing that makes us, the thing that fulfills fundamentally is not any knowledge.
No knowledge has ever fulfilled me to, to any capacity, even a little.
So it's not mind that, that, that makes you happy, you know, something.
It's not thought, it's relation.
It's relation.
Yeah.
Relationship.
Relationship.
Relationship.
It's the basis of, to me, of all life, of like, of like, of anything that's worth living.
It's, it's at that relationship is the fundamental basis for it.
Right.
And so, yeah, I don't know what you asked me, but.
Well, yeah, I'm done.
Still, I'm going to ask some more questions.
And if you have a couple for me, I'm happy to respond as well.
Name a couple of books that radically changed your life.
Be Here Now by Richard Alpert.
Changed my life.
I was 14 years old when I read it.
I had, yeah, I had just, I, I was this before, I had a massive mushroom trip when I was 15
years old that really propelled me to a lot of what I am now.
And, and that book, man, it was so, it was the best book ever.
Cause it was just like, it was, it had like a, the acid trip on one side and on the other
side, it had the practicalities.
And I read that book and I was like, I want to be that guy.
I want to feel the things that that guy felt.
I want to, I want to know what that is.
I want to experience it.
And so that book really was a pretty, pretty, pretty intense transformation for me.
And then I've had some other books I've enjoyed along the way that were, you know, maybe not,
not how to win friends and influence people.
I learned how to be a person, you know, reading that book.
I learned how to be a little bit more human and like how to, how to relate to people.
I think it's a beautiful book.
I learned anything by Henry David Thoreau.
I know.
She is one of the quintessential spirit totems for, I don't know, something.
And so he's beautiful.
Yeah.
A bunch of others.
Tell me about one of the most important animals in your life.
That's easy.
So my, my, my animals to me, everything.
I have always, as an adult, I've always had animals in my life.
And right now I have a, I have a cat.
His name is Bo and Bo is quite the animal.
He is, he is big and beautiful and proud.
And he is my best friend.
We go walking almost every day.
You know, walk, you know, he likes to just follow me around.
So we'll, you know, walk outside and we've got little adventures that we do.
And he's, we understand each other.
I can talk to him.
Like, I don't know how else we can talk to each other.
And so we actually made a deal when I first got him that I was going to let him out.
We were going to go for walks, but he wasn't going to run away from me.
Be a dick about it.
Right.
Never been a dick about it.
Never.
Never.
And so he's my, he's my BFF right now.
Before that, I had a dog for 14 years.
Her name was Sila and she was a black lab Lottweiler mix.
And she was the most beautiful, gentlest pup in the world.
And I, I, yeah, I, I love animals.
I don't know what I would do without them in my life.
I think that they, they teach you innocence and, and directness in a way that humans just have a hard time with because we're so abstracted.
No, that's all we do.
Like we constantly machinate in our heads.
So we don't know how to just be with each other.
Sometimes it's just, it's uncomfortable for a lot of us.
You know, that's not how animals are.
Animals just live in that space.
They just are right there with you.
Right there right now.
And that's what they know.
And that's, they'll always give you that.
And they're always honest with you.
They never lie.
What can you say about that?
It's a difficult thing to find in life these days.
Yeah.
The integrity of animals is transcendental, right?
It's just unimaginably beautiful.
I honor both spirit.
I'm glad he's with you and, and your previous companions as well.
What about you?
Have you, do you have any animals or pets in your life?
I don't have animals here.
I almost over the past many years, I've had particular animals I connect with outside.
Yeah.
Um, and, uh, there's a couple of ravens in the neighborhood that know me really well.
And we hang out together.
There are animals have, have had a huge influence on me.
Cats, dogs, um, some weird animals, particularly praying mantises.
I'm, I'm absolutely strange around praying mantises, like, and them around me.
You know, isn't it weird?
Okay.
Here's what I think.
I think that there are certain body templates that are just predisposed to becoming intelligent beings.
Right?
Yeah.
And one of them is the mantid form.
The other is the two arm form, the human humanoid form.
Yep.
The other.
This is the eight arm form.
The eight arm form.
Don't forget those fuckers.
Yeah.
Octopod form.
Those two, those, those particular.
There's somehow they stand as those forms stand as like templates of intelligent.
Like they're, this is another real, this is a really interesting thing.
I'm still looking into is like, like, what are the numbers there?
Because to me, I look at that and I, and what I see is I see an expression of a number.
I see an expression of a fundamental relationship.
Right?
Yeah.
Like with the Octopod, we've got eights.
You know, with the two arm form, we've got five.
We are the fives.
Right?
Yeah.
Yeah.
And, and that's, that shit is, that shit is fucking awesome.
Like, I mean, we are the recursive five.
Yeah.
Right.
Because I got this thing here.
It's got one unifying body.
Right.
Four, four working members, one thinking member.
Right.
And then I got this thing.
It's got five.
It's got four working members, each with three segments.
Right.
One thinking member with two segments.
Right.
And so I'm probably the hand of something.
Yeah.
I'm pretty sure.
Right.
Right.
So we're like this, this, and then upscale from there.
You know?
Right.
Right.
Right.
The upscale from there, it can't be physical because if it were, it would have more mass
than the universe.
Right.
You would have to.
You would have to.
Yeah.
By virtue of being outside.
I mean, we are outside the universe in a way.
But yeah.
Two of your favorite foods.
Oh, shit, man.
Um, that would have to be falafel sandwich.
I'm a big fan of a good, like a really good falafel sandwich.
And, um, what else do I like?
Uh, pizza.
Good pizza.
I'm down for this.
Okay.
Yeah.
I mean, cheese, that stuff's pretty serious.
Cheese.
I'm not really big fan.
You know, when people ask me, like, why were you incarnated?
Yeah.
I have a one word answer.
What's that?
Cheese.
Cheese.
I came here to eat cheese.
I am a cheese slut.
Um, I remember during the, uh, during the pandemic, I went to the local grocery store.
Yeah.
And I, I come back from where I was hanging out, which was in Lake Arrowhead.
Um, and I was really concerned about coming back to San Francisco because I was, I wasn't
sure we weren't going to have like martial law or something pretty quick.
I wasn't sure in the beginning.
Anyway, I go down to the grocery store and I'm, I'm at the daily counter.
I'm getting some stuff.
And, and, um, across from the daily counter at the Italian grocery that I go to, what's,
what's, what's on your hat there?
Oh, Andrioli's Andrea, that's my favorite Italian restaurant in, in, um, in, if you're
ever in Arizona, if you go to Arizona, if you're in Arizona, go to Scottsdale.
Andrioli's best Italian restaurant in the world.
So I was at Andronico's right, which is the Italian grocery here.
And, um, I'm at the deli counter and across from the deli counter is the, the glass, you
know, the glass wall where all the cheeses are.
Right.
And, uh, people walking up and, and they, they, you know, they, they sort of innocently
kind of walk up to get some cheese and, and they see if there's no cheese, there's zero
cheese.
And those people looked at their shoes and they just like shook their head.
Like, I can't do this now.
Yeah.
Cheese.
I'm, I'm, I'm out.
Like if there's no cheese, I don't even understand what the fuck.
I'm here for.
Like cheese is, I don't know.
I don't know what it is.
It's, it's, it's an incredible comfort foods that just makes you like, some things just
make you feel, you know, like they're just, I don't mean, maybe there's some type of like
divine emotions or feelings or something that get translated down into this space.
Like, I mean, I think I actually think that there's a lost chapter of Genesis.
I do.
I think there's a lost chapter, man, in which God created cheese.
And he said, let there be cheese.
And then the other things happen, you know, after that.
That's right.
That's right.
Well, they made the pizza.
Don't forget about the pizza.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That's a metaphysical food.
Right.
Because it's all, if it starts out as a, as a unity and then it splits into parts all
along angles.
Right.
Which is like angels.
And then we eat those.
And then we all have the same.
We got like pieces of the same thing inside of us.
I think God's up there.
Like pizza fine.
That thing I said earlier about like part of God dies and comes down here and dreams.
And then we were alive.
God's just like a pizza that divides itself into cheeses and Jesus and things like that.
Right.
No, I definitely sent his emissary pizza down here before he came down.
Yeah.
Yeah.
He's like, I'm not going down there until there's pizza down there after they made pizza.
I'll show up.
Right.
Seriously.
Seriously.
Are there, I'm not going to ask you to, to reveal them, but I just want to know if
there are, are there a series of dreams in your life that you will always remember?
A number of them?
A couple, a couple.
I have the, the, my anchoring experiences are the anchoring experiences I had when I was
a teenager and a young adult, when I was going through essentially, you know, a period of
practice where I was learning all of this stuff very actively.
Right.
I was, I got very lucky in that I met somebody who was, who was, you know, a very, very like
real, the real thing where I learned a lot from who gave me the means to be able to get
through this life without fucking killing myself in, in no time flat.
Cause I don't know how long I would survive if I hadn't, you know, learned how to learn
some application of impulse control and just, and just discrimination.
Right.
Those two things that took taking me far in this life.
Is that, is that man someone you can tell me his name?
Yeah.
His, his, his name was Frederick Lenz.
His name was Rama.
Um, that was, yeah.
And he died in 1998.
So he was, he died before the new millennium.
Um, and I spent six years of my life studying with him.
And then after that, I, I, I traveled a little bit and studied with a couple of crazy spiritual
teachers and that's, but that's a good thing for another time.
I think.
Yes.
Fair enough.
Um, another call that we do.
Yeah, dude.
Um, life is really quite something.
And I think that all of, all of everything's about to get really much faster.
Like every, I don't know about how.
Yeah, no, no, we're in a huge mess, dude.
Um, time itself has gotten time as Shakespeare once said, and I never until now had any idea
what the fuck he was talking about.
Time is out of joint.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Tell me about it.
It.
Yes.
And there's all kinds of things I can say about that, but I will save this for another time.
So we do.
Yeah, we will.
We will reconvene.
Absolutely.
We will reconvene sometime soon.
I'm so grateful to spend this time with you.
I presume.
Um, it's okay if I, uh, post this on my channel.
Right.
Absolutely.
Absolutely.
Absolutely.
I knew that.
Well, thank you not out there.
Just like us.
Yeah.
Always.
Much love, Sebastian.
You're brilliant.
Soul.
I'm so grateful to have you in my life and my, my orbits and or to orbit your world.
My life.
You've changed my life more than once.
Just so you know.
Yeah.
You have the things you have posted on Facebook have made a significant difference in my life.
It's true.
You have made a, you made a big impact on me.
Yeah.
Every time we talk, man, it's just like a reunion.
Right.
It's like reunion of my, my other brother.
I love you so much.
I wish you every blessing and we'll do this again sometime really soon.
Yeah.
Very soon.
Yes.
Absolutely.
Cheers, my friend.
Cheers.
I love you, man.
Love you too.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
