Hello, everybody. Welcome. I am out of my mind with excitement right now. I have been
having a staggering array of insights while in conversation with a new friend. So maybe
I should tell some backstory. So one of my Facebook friends, who I never really had any conversation
with, maybe a few weeks ago, I saw some kind of note in the news feed that implied this
person who I really don't know, was adjusting to a new set of circumstances that were really
challenging. And so I reached out to her after seeing on her Facebook page that she was sitting,
she was in her car at a traffic light, at a red light. Went out of the blue, someone plowed
into the back of her car. It severed her spinal cord. She's been paralyzed since then.
And this situation has resonance with certain features of my own history that I will not
hear in detail. So I reached out to her. And I think she was naturally suspicious, as it
is wise for women to be generally. Although, you know, in the Facebook situation, people can
see something of who I am by looking at my wall. And so they can, you know, they've got more
information than me just being like a random person. So we had our first conversation today.
She gave me permission to use her name. So her name's Amber Bourne, like it sounds. And she asked
me why I reached out to her. And essentially, I said that, I mean, it's complicated. The question
of why did, why did you do something? Okay. And lots of other questions are similar, pose a
similar problem. But before I get started here, I want to talk about this problem in language
language. Because we are trained and we train our children to think that we do things and
events occur for reasons.
Just had some birds in my hand there. It's pretty amazing. Wild birds on your fingers.
So, this is the result of having been subjected to the concept of courtrooms.
And I'm not saying that nothing in existence resembles courtrooms.
There are things that do, apparently, features, situations.
But our interiority doesn't resemble a courtroom.
Our minds, our souls, our ka, our ba, the seven features of spirit,
the Egyptians enumerated and had different names for,
that don't resemble a courtroom.
Though one of them, apparently, is often subject to something resembling a courtroom at death
if we take the image of our heart's weight being compared to a feather
by some kind of an angelic being or an archon.
I can't remember who does the measuring.
Is it the ibis-headed being? I can't remember.
I'm so filled.
Alright, so, once when I was a kid, my father became very angry with me
because I'd eaten some cookies that were in the, what do they call that cabinet in the kitchen?
I can't remember.
I'd eaten some cookies that were in there and he came home.
I didn't eat all of them, but I ate some of them, you know.
And he came home and a courtroom scene ensued where he started yelling at me,
why did you eat these cookies?
And I said, I don't know.
And he said, you're lying.
And, you know, it was his intention to assert the fact that I had eaten the cookies to subvert his authority.
I had eaten the cookies because he told me not to.
And so I was essentially just fucking with him, right?
I ate the cookies to fuck with my father because he told me not to.
To contravene his authority to rebel.
And so my eating of the cookies in his mind was an intentional act of rebellion.
And there was no fucking chance of that being true.
Later, there might be occasionally, I mean, I don't even know.
Nah.
My father always had this idea that when I misbehaved, quote unquote,
that I was doing it in order to fuck with him or to rebel against him or something like this
in some weird Christianic courtroom version of reality in which my motivations to act were based on my ability or my desire to contravene his authority.
Never, I don't think ever did I ever do anything like that.
Even when I became rebellious, I still could never be fundamentally motivated to disobey my father.
I would disobey him because I had a desire for something.
But my point is, when someone asks me, you know, there was a sort of a relational hiccup in another one of my relationships recently.
And when we reestablished contact, the other person asked me, why did we have this hiccup?
You know, why?
Why did this happen?
Why did you do this?
Why did you do?
Why did I do what I did?
And I gave some, you know, I orbited the situation in speech and said, well, there was this, there was this, there was this.
And the other person said, yes, yes, but why?
And then I explained that, you know, the certain kinds of questions that lead to a courtroom situation in consciousness,
where a miasma, right, a sort of roiling cloud of qualities and situational variables and so on.
We will task ourselves with making derivations over the cloud, right?
Reduce, we're going to measure the quantum superposition of intent.
And we're going to collapse it down to two or three things.
Well, I did it because of this.
I felt this way.
I thought blah, blah, blah.
You know, that's not actually how human interiority works.
At least it isn't how my interiority is at all.
So when someone asks me why I did something, sometimes I can respond, especially if the context is simple.
Why did you unlock your mailbox?
I was hoping to see if there was mail in there.
That's reasonably true.
But if they say, for example, oh my God, beautiful.
If they say, why did you run away?
Or why did you approach me?
Why have you come?
That's going to be a lot more complicated.
It's not like there's nothing I can say.
It's also like the expectation of explicit derivatives is deceptively misfounded.
It's not what's really going on.
There's an elderly man who walks around the lake and he may have had a stroke.
He has two canes.
He's probably in his seventies.
There's a couple of Stellar's J's here.
One of them just came to my hand and then the child, the child I think came, probably a young male.
Looks like he's molting.
And he came and made a request because he, interesting.
Oh man, the guy was, the guy just walked past me, elderly Chinese man.
He was wearing a shirt that said, change before you have to.
Wow, what a message.
Might be the best message I've ever seen on a shirt.
Anyway, there's this elderly man who walks around the lake with a couple of canes.
And I noticed him earlier.
I've seen him many times before.
He looks like he was in really good physical shape and perhaps he had a stroke.
Or I'm not sure what, you know, I may one day be like him, maybe much sooner than I think.
Because when we get older, stuff that was super easy when we were young suddenly becomes like a life or death challenge.
And I realized that as he was sort of tottering along with his double canes and occasionally blowing, you know, blowing a little breath out, like he's really working this, you know.
I realized that a walk around the lake, at a certain age, a walk around the lake is like running, you know, a hundred mile, a marathon or something, right?
And we should honor where each unique being is at in their place, you know.
We should honor that and have awareness about that and have compassion and pay attention, right?
Wake up, wake up, become present.
When we see others struggling or if we see them confused, the urge to judgment is almost always misguided.
And we make fun of things, you know.
I'm going to go ahead and make fun of something briefly.
So, you know, there's all this hoopla about the photograph on the internet, right?
There's all this hoopla about the photograph that some people have decided is meant to be sort of thumbing,
thumbing our noses at the painting of the Last Supper.
And so then, too, of Christianity and so forth.
And then other people are like, look, this is Bacchanalia.
What are you guys freaking out about?
You know?
And so when I get home, I'm going to make a meme with that picture.
And it's going to be, it's going to say on the meme, France to the Christians.
I bet you think, you're so vain, I bet you think the song is about you.
We do sometimes make fun.
But in this case, we're making fun of like a whole cohort of humans determined to get butthurt about something that, A, doesn't actually matter.
Especially in this time when so many things that do matter need our attention and care and concern.
And B, wasn't actually intended as an affront to anyone.
You know, you took offense.
Okay, you're projecting.
Basically, you're making a, you know, it's that Jungian thing.
Every, every criticism is a projection.
Right?
You criticize because you feel the resonance of your own vulnerabilities or your own misdeeds or your own mistakes or your own so on and so forth.
Yeah.
It's very profound.
But yeah, this why thing.
So my friend asked me why I reached out to her.
And I tried to explain.
I was like, well, I can say some things about this that are, that I trust, but I don't know.
It's like what I said to my father when I ate the cookies.
I don't know why I ate the cookies.
I didn't have a reason.
I didn't sit there thinking, I will eat these cookies because of thus.
Right?
I was like a god in my chamber inventing reasons and eating cookies the way my father supposed to.
And he was furious with me.
You know, it was, it was like I had really violated some fundamental principle of ethics here.
And, and this required very severe treatment and punishment and so forth.
And I mean, eventually, most of the time when this happened, I would just start crying and then he would attack me further.
And be like, I'll give you something to cry about.
No, don't think I had a terrible father.
I loved my dad.
He was an amazing man.
But, but he also had to learn how to be a father.
You don't start out knowing how to do this.
And he grew up in Brooklyn where he had to be tough.
And, you know, he was actually an extremely sensitive kid who had to become a tough guy and his brother sort of beat it into him as a kid.
You know, he was like, you can fight those other guys or I'll fight you at home and I'll fuck you up.
This kind of thing.
Wow.
One thing I love about being here in San Francisco is that people come from many other countries.
These people are speaking like Nordic?
No, I don't even know.
Danish?
What are they speaking?
It's a little family.
It's so beautiful.
So, um, no, my dad was a good man.
Uh, but he thought, he thought that I was going to have to grow up in a world similar to the one he grew up in.
And he had no idea what California was actually about.
When he brought, he came here to escape what was going on in Brooklyn and he had escaped it.
He just didn't believe that he'd escaped it.
So he expected we were going to have to, he was going to have to make me a tough guy.
Otherwise I'd be victimized, which really didn't turn out to be the case.
Um, and in fact with things that were actually dangerous to me were things he'd never have possibly imagined to be dangerous.
To be dangerous.
Lesbian cops.
Lesbian cops.
That's what turned out to be really fucking dangerous to me.
Weirdly.
Weirdly.
In any case, or rather a particular, a particular police woman who would threaten my life because I was a man.
And she was capable of doing so while wearing a gun.
In any case, this why thing.
Why did you do it?
You know, why did that cop, Elaine Economist, why did she tell me she was going to take me out in the field and make me disappear?
Huh.
When I hadn't even done anything at all, nor had she been told that I had done anything.
Um, she just took a dislike to me, apparently based on my gender.
Um, you know, it's not super common that we get, well, maybe that's not entirely true.
There's a lot of risk to being born male.
Um, and every once in a while, and it's not that uncommon, uh, we can be, you know, we get ruined, us boys.
Not usually by, um, butch police women.
But, uh, yeah, it does happen.
We get nailed to trees and stuff.
In any case.
So, when people ask you why you did something, pause for a moment and say, are you sure?
Like, first of all, I'm not entirely, if you're not sure why you did something, if it's, if it's a complex array of reasons, just say like, wow, it's really a complex thing and I can't just reduce it to one answer.
And if I try to do that, what's going to happen?
We're going to believe that answer?
Because that's not, you know, that's not how things actually go, if there's any kind of complexity.
If the question's more significant than why did I unlock my door or something, why did I take a shower?
There are certain things for which there's simple answers about why, right?
But it's a terrifying mistake to transfer that simplicity to all other phenomenon and expect, because language primes us for this expectation, to think that, oh, everything's like that.
You can tell.
You can say why you did something.
We tell this, you know, we teach this to children and that's wrong.
Just wrong.
The children, they're not sitting there most of the time.
They're not sitting there trying to, you know, cooking up reasons in thought and then executing actions.
It's not what they're up to, okay?
So I said to my friend, well, you know, your situation reminded me of situations I'd been in and I realize and honor how challenging your situation is.
And I think that you can help me see better.
And maybe, you know, you can decide about this for yourself, but maybe I can help you see better.
And so what I'm hoping is that we can, together, we can both see better together.
And it's perfectly reasonable for her to inquire into my motivations.
In my view, anyway.
And there were a number of exchanges between us before we actually had the conversation that we've just had.
Now, this is an impromptu talk.
I'm recording this because I'm so inspired by what I've just been through with my new friend, Amber.
Who was paralyzed in November, the end of November last year, through no fault of her own that I can understand.
And when something like this happens, and something like this has happened to me previously too, I've been, I know what it's like to be catastrophically injured or deprived of my mobility.
Have my body, one side of my body torn away from the other side of my body, I know what this is about.
Not in exactly the same way she does, but it's familiar.
So, we started talking and eventually the conversation turned to topics about incarnation and divine beings.
And even, yes, UFOs and the relationship between these topics, angels and UFOs and incarnation and so forth.
And she told me that, this is so primordially profound, she said, you know, when I was 18 I got my first tattoo.
And it was an angel with its face in its hands, weeping, saying, where is my mind?
Where has my mind gone?
Where has my mind gone?
Where has my mind gone?
And this figure.
So perfect.
Now.
I want you to imagine for a moment.
What a person.
Let us say a woman, in this case.
person in this case, who once was a sighted person but is now a blind person.
What could such a woman teach you about seeing?
So you go to a class, you're going to take, you're going to go to a workshop, a series
of workshops with five blind women.
And they're going to teach you what to do with your eyes, follow, get the idea here?
Because you might think that blind women wouldn't have anything to say, and I'm going to call
these people formerly sighted, right?
Like the artist formerly referred to as Prince, formerly sighted humans, women.
And they're going to, they've gotten together and they've worked out what they can teach
you about seeing that as a sighted person, you will never discover.
Would you sign up for that class?
I would be all over that.
All over it.
And so what could people who have suffered catastrophic disembodiment, paralysis, loss of the ability
to walk, what could they teach us about embodiment?
Soma.
Yeah.
There's all kinds of beautiful human beings that are actually beautiful people who practice
somatic awareness and somatic reintegration and teach each other how to come back into
the body in our strain, you know, our modern estrangement from, from the Soma, from the body.
If indeed Soma means body, but what they, it means like visceral awareness of the viscera.
So my friend Amber was, you know, she feels that she's trying to figure out why this has
happened.
And the problem is that if you suffer some catastrophic loss, I'm going to hear a little bit of Amon
Hillman in me here.
At the moment, for some reason, I seem to be channeling Amon's prosody.
If you suffer some catastrophic loss, then what are you going to do in the lee of the catastrophe,
the disaster, the falling of the stars?
Disaster means the stars are falling down to the earth, the heavens crashing downwards.
What are you going to do?
Are you going to try to think why it happened?
No.
I mean, sometimes that's useful.
That's not always a bad move.
But in, in most cases, there are a lot of better moves on the table.
Like what to do with the situation that you have now, right?
How does what has happened transform your ability to live into the new situation?
But there's so much here that is crazy amazing.
So I talked about, with Amber, my experience with what I refer to as Toymaker.
And those of you who know me know that this was a foundational experience in my life, in
my adult life, in my 39th year.
I'm now 60, so that's a long time ago now.
But it seems.
But the implication that the ancients, to the ancients, the gods were not ideas.
They weren't concepts.
They were our symbionts.
We were their bodies and they were our minds.
And nobody has said this directly enough.
Now later, okay, it gets weirder than this because Amber's tattoo, and I haven't seen it yet.
She said she'd send me a picture of it.
But it's a tattoo of something that looks like an alien with angel wings.
And it's crying into its hands and saying, where is my mind?
Or maybe it's saying, where is my body?
Because what she means, she thinks of the mind as the body.
It's good.
and
Some fighters practicing.
It's very interesting.
The old man, he's bent over, but he's fierce.
And he's teaching them how to actually fight.
Not like fucking around.
Yeah.
I just want to see this.
I just want to see this.
I just want to see this.
Hmm.
He's good.
He knows what he's up to.
All right, so, you know, I talked about, we talked about the problem, she and I talked
about the problem of language and why humans are so bound up in representational cognition.
And it's because a long time ago the umbilicus between our people and the sky intelligences
broke.
And we were their bodies and they were our minds.
Right?
And then we forged individual minds and we forged minds down here, but one of the things
that happened when that umbilicus broke, which, you know, resembles the problem in Amber's
life where her spinal cord broke when she was struck from behind by that car who was
probably on his fucking cell phone.
Right?
Who knows what caused that, but 90% chance it was an electronic device that the person was
paying attention to instead of driving.
And, you know, that guy probably walked away fine, Amber can't walk.
So, just a guess, don't know the answer.
Um, so that severance of her spinal cord, right, her legs, is like the severance of the
body from the angels, so to speak.
The transcendent sky intelligences that live in the substrate from which time, space and
matter emerges.
Yeah?
Emerging moment to moment.
Emerging.
Energy, energetic emergence.
Right?
Um, so when that umbilicus broke, we started making prostheses.
We started, we had fire and wheels and gears and chemistry and mechanisms.
We started making machines.
Mock eyes in energy systems.
Machines.
Fake angels.
In Ezekiel, those, those eyes around the wheels, those are, he's seeing angels.
And by the way, Ezekiel's happening post-cataclysm.
Post-disaster.
The umbilicus has been broken.
Right?
The humans and the gods are no longer together.
And what the gods are isn't the important question.
It's what's the relationship between the humans and the gods.
And the relationship is they were our uplift parents in David Brinian terminology.
Right?
The uplift war.
In his stories, all, each intelligent species has a specific uplift parent that they serve
for a time post-uplift, meaning they go from being animals to being tool-making, representational cognitives,
capable of eventual space flight and so on.
But in Brin's story, the uplift parents of the humans remains unknown.
There's a candidate, there's a candidate species.
They're elvish.
They're these, uh, beings called the Thimbrimi.
And they have, uh, antennas.
Right?
Like praying mantises, except they're, they're human-like.
Um, they look similar to humans.
They have antennae, antennae, and they're called Thimbrimi.
And what I'm trying to say, so, the amazing insight that I never had before today,
that I just need to record and celebrate here with you right now,
is that I understood that the humans went insane when the umbilicus between,
when the accident happened, and, and I think it was an accident.
There was some kind of tragic catastrophe that broke the umbilicus between us and the sky
minds, the star minds, time-space beings like Toymaker.
When that umbilicus snapped, our species went insane.
We didn't know what to be.
We couldn't figure out what to be.
One of the things we became was just war.
Right?
Killing each other.
And what were we killing each other over?
Stuff.
Matter.
Matters.
Ideas.
Gods.
Right?
Especially in the Bible, you see people slaughtering each other about,
which of the Elohim shall we be obeying?
Right?
Which of these gods shall we be obeying?
Yeah?
From one perspective, right?
Gnostic perspective where the Elohim are the sky being intelligences and so forth.
And Yahweh is just one of those intelligences rather than THE intelligence.
Yeah, we slaughter each other.
We kill the animals.
We kill the children.
We kill everyone.
Not we.
But, you know, if you read the stories in the Bible about religious war and then you see
what the, you know, the Crusades go around slaughtering the pagans and the witches and so forth.
The oracles obliterating them.
No, only the prophets authorized by Yahweh are the right ones.
Right?
And there is sort of a huge problem for any kind of thinking human being or compassionate human being
when there's some god in the Bible that's like, I'm jealous.
Slaughter the other beings.
Kill those gods.
Tear down those temples.
Except they don't tear down the temples.
They just take the effigy out of the temple and then they turn it into a church.
Right?
So you can see, like, there's this weird Yahwistic thread through modernity, anyway.
There's some kind of an authorization schema that tells the humans to destroy all the humans
that don't think and do and act just like you.
Fuck them up.
Obliterate them.
Destroy their whole historical line.
Right?
Rip those people from history.
And the same thing with nature, right?
That whole destroy, obliterate, stamp out, it doesn't stop with the temples.
It goes all the way to the forests and the oceans themselves and the sky.
You know, there is a long time ago this thing where an angel that spins a sword in every
direction, I know that angel personally, I think.
I have good reason to believe.
Guards the tree of life so that the humans cannot take their wars to the sky.
But here's the crazy, so here's where things start getting crazy.
I understood that the humans went nuts when the umbilicus broke and we lost.
Because I think we were meant, our minds are alpha symbionts for the sky intelligences.
But when they disappeared, our people went insane.
And that's when we started having religions and things like this, which are terrifying nonsense.
Right?
Imagine the difference between kisses and rape.
Um, this is the difference between the original symbiotic union and religion.
Uh, yeah, consensual joyful kisses and rape.
Oh my god.
It's so brilliant.
What these dogs do.
The way they communicate.
One of the dogs is just completely lying down on the ground.
And the other dog is approaching.
And then they meet.
And the one that is laying down.
Yeah, that's incredible.
Oh my god.
If the humans would just watch what the animals do, they could learn the nature of the universe.
If only they understood.
I know, do you want to pick this up?
They're using me as a tree.
Hmm.
They're both girls, yeah?
Yeah.
Hmm hmm.
Filmority.
All right.
Yeah.
Okay.
The communication is so physical between the dogs, but it's experimental, it's playful,
it appears slightly violent, but violence isn't its motivation or result.
Intimacy is the result, intimacy is the motivation, and the violence leads to calm and trust
and intimacy, it's really astonishing to watch how this develops over the course of a few
moments in the play of the dogs, it's beautiful, really amazing.
So, the humans were, okay, how to explain, all right, imagine that our species is, we are
the bees, yeah, and the sky intelligences are the flowers, or both, we are the flowers
to the bees they are, they collect the honey of us, of our minds and our intelligence, they
make the honey of our reproductive behavior, which we ourselves do not understand, we do
not understand our reproductive behavior, and they are the bees to the flowers of us.
And then, the bees disappear, and now we really don't understand.
And so we start making machines, and why are we making machines?
We are making machines because we hope the gods will come back.
And the machines remind us of the gods, and they have the potential to lift us back into
space where we imagine we will encounter the gods.
But they also have the potential to sow anger the spirit of balance in time-space because
of, we make nuclear weapons, we obliterate the oceans, we kill the children of the sky,
we obliterate nature, we, not because the humans want to do this.
Our species is broken, the individuals, none of them want this.
Because the group level of us doesn't know what the fuck to do without the gods.
And people are like, oh, there are no gods, it's just a story that we made up to bind
us together.
Bullshit!
It's just fucking, are your parents a story you made up to bind you together, right?
The people that taught you language, is that just a story in your mind?
Because if that doesn't happen and you're raised by wolves or whatever, you can't learn
language later.
Those children, when they're brought into, quote, civilization, they die.
They can't fucking adjust.
And similarly, when, quote, civilized people go and live with, quote, savages, they won't
come back to civilization for any fucking thing.
A million dollars, a billion dollars, they don't care, they throw that shit away, I don't
care, I have to lose my soul to come live in that city.
I'm going to stay with these, quote, savages in the jungle or in the mountains or in the
desert or in the plains, right?
Because why?
Because the intimacy and the intelligence is alive there, mythically alive.
And wherever that intimacy and intelligence is alive, there's less of the disaster and
distinction, there's less of the loss of the gods, the sky beings, right?
So what never occurred to me, though, was that the angels might have suffered a similar calamity.
I thought, well, when the gods went away, when the sky being intelligences went away,
my people went insane.
And this is what I was taught by one of the sky beings, right?
By a sky being, well, maybe the sky being, who knows, it's complicated.
The idea of distinction is different up there than down here, by far, very, very different.
In fact, how distinction is used in cognition, in thinking, no, they don't even have cognition.
What they have is some kind of transcendent thing.
It only distinguishes to unify.
It never distinguishes and leaves it there, like we do, especially in language.
Wow, learning so much right now.
So, all right, it occurred, I understood, they showed me several, many, more than 20 different
stories, 20 different ways of looking at what happened to the humans, and why we went insane,
and why we make machines, and why we have symbols instead of relationships, and why we are representational
cognitives.
We dispose of relationships and environments to produce tokens, words, concepts, commodities,
machines, right, things we can trade, pennies.
We turn the beautiful origin of being into dead structure, and then we worship the dead structure,
as if it were our origin, or our purpose, right?
And, occasionally the sky, you know, will crash down into the humans, and show them how stupid
this is.
There's been such a historic event in my life, which is a very complex event.
Well, you can just think about which one I mean, two things went, two things came down
on one day.
I won't say that.
So, occasionally, right, the sky will intervene, and something from the sky will destroy something
on the earth that the humans are doing that is bad, is wrong.
And there's lots of stories about this from history, right?
We have the biblical story where Sodom is obliterated by something from the sky, for example.
Just to give an example of the trope, it's a trope.
So it's a figure of, it's a metaphoric figure of speech, but it's very important
to understand.
And getting hit in the head, or having one's head cut off, are similar tropes.
Because what smacks into the earth hits her in the head.
And if something big smacks into the earth, the earth has a stroke because her children
die.
And she senses with those children.
Children are like her neurons, except they're very complex and alive, and they're multi-symbiotic.
But, so the humans went nuts, they started making weapons and machines and fire and shit, wheels.
But it never occurred to me that the angels might have gone mad, too, because they lost
their bodies.
They lost their buddies.
They lost us.
We lost them, but they also lost us, so what did they do?
Well in one cartoon story, they started making UFOs, right?
In an attempt, right, we started making temples and who knows what, pyramids and pillars, sky
things, human-made mountains, because the mountains are closest to the sky, that's where the earth
and the sky touch, that's where the intimacy happens.
But so too the valleys, right, because the valleys draw the sky down.
But yeah, what if the angels started making a way to interact or even a way to interact reproductively
with the humans, so that they could have bodies, because we needed, we lost our minds, and they
lost their bodies.
So they need bodies and we need minds.
And this is why perhaps disclosure is on the fucking table right now.
The human, the structured, civilized humans have no chance of understanding this.
The military has no chance of understanding this.
None.
Zero.
The religious people, no fucking chance of understanding this.
What you need are people who understand history.
You need classicists.
You need people like Amon Hillman.
Yeah, people of his ilk, not Bible scholars, you need classicists, right.
And you also need people who have had, oh my God, the beauty, a Martin is here with me, because
I'm kicking up, yeah, yeah, sweetness, oh my God, what beauty, like the swallows, right, because
I'm kicking up moths, and she knows, yeah, she knows.
There's an old game between the Martins and the humans on the grass.
You walk across the grass and the Martins, or the swallows, they, they acrobatically fly
along the grass.
She's all around a mother and her child right now.
They follow you because you kick up insects that they can eat.
This is symbiosis, right?
And it's not just about eating and killing, but this is symbiosis.
We have features that the sky beings need for their fulfillment the same way that flowers
and bees get together, right, birds and the bees.
And they have features that we need for our minds.
And without the corrective intelligence they can supply to our minds, we obliterate ourselves,
right?
Oh, the beauty, the beauty of the swallow.
She's so beautiful, spinning around me.
Oh, yeah.
You know, they'll play with you.
If you follow them, they'll play with you.
They'll circle you and eventually if there, if there's a few of them, one of them will come
right past your face and look you right in the eye like a whale or like a dragonfly or
like a butterfly or like, like the sky itself.
Like origin, like the angels winking at you from afar in time space.
This is the nature of nature.
It's not red in tooth and claw.
It's sexual.
It's intimacy.
It's everything beautiful about lifting each other up and preserving each other's lineages
together, safeguarding the history and the future of the beings and the minds and the
children and the mothers.
That's what's going on.
It's not war.
You know, yeah, there are factions that are just so disoriented by being separated that
they've forgotten what intimacy is, what it means, right?
They've forgotten what that means.
But what occurred to me today that never occurred to me before was that the loss of the humans
was a catastrophe for the angels, for the sky intelligences.
And that they had to do something too.
We did something.
We started making machines and war and devices and things, unfortunately, terrifyingly, tragically,
obliterating nature and ourselves.
And they started maybe making what we call UFOs.
They started trying to find a new way to have a body because we had been their bodies and
they had been our minds.
And it was beautiful and it was amazing and we were fulfilled and they were fulfilled.
We were intimate, we were intimate, transcendent, ecstatic beings together, the same way the
bees and the flowers are.
Reproductive intimacy and then the catastrophe.
The umbilicus broke, the spinal column snapped, the nervous system and we were separated.
Something separated us and the humans went mad and some of the angels went mad and some of
the angels tried to make a way to heal the ancient disaster.
And that's what I saw with my friend Amber.
And that's what is blowing my mind so much right now.
It never occurred to me that the angels might have been impoverished by what happened.
Because we were one of the organs of their body-mind and they were the origin organ.
The purpose of our body-mind was our relation with them in the same way.
What would the bees do without the flowers, right?
What would they do without the flowers?
If the flowers disappeared or went super far away, the bees would have to make a way to reach
them.
Maybe that's what UFOs are mostly.
Maybe that's what all that's about and the military has no fucking idea and is totally
confused and wants asymmetric advantage against enemies.
And the religious people want the preservation of the narrative, right?
We've got to preserve the ancient stories and our interpretations of them at all costs.
Neither of them, that's nothing like relation.
Those are rape minds.
Both of those things.
Those are minds that will happily dispose of everything alive and beautiful for the sake
of their stupid single agenda, which is ironically self-destroying.
So yeah, let's think more openly about these matters and these histories.
And I'm not saying I'm telling you what actually took place.
I'm showing you a perspective that is amazing and brilliant and profound and enlightening.
A very powerful perspective.
God, I've just noticed that the wind buffer that I usually use on my mic had fallen off.
I hope it wasn't super noisy, but even if it is, at least I've recorded this.
So, thank you for joining me.
I'm still trying to understand, literally to stand under and lift existence up above me
so that I can see better together.
More soon.
I look forward to learning together again very soon.
Bye-bye for now.
