Hello everybody, welcome.
I remember once I was driving in the city, underneath the freeway that leads to the East Bay, heading west,
I was probably in the center of a three-lane, or in the left lane of a two-lane road.
Probably doing like 37, something like this.
There was some traffic around me, and it was my goal to change lanes to my right, so obeying
what my father taught me, there's a very few drivers probably utilized today.
In fact, many cars are designed in such a way as to render this precaution fruitless, or mostly fruitless,
because in many cars the visibility is extremely limited compared to how it used to be.
Many cars were designed to enhance the circular visibility around the driver.
So I looked over my right shoulder, turned my head around all the way, well, not all the way,
I wasn't doing the spinning head from the exorcist,
but I turned to my right and gave a good, serious, consideration, brief, but serious,
to what was going on back there as I was intending to change lanes shortly in that direction.
All of this description, which sounds complex and is verbally complex,
so far I've described something that took about a second to take place,
and as I have my blinker on, I have my signal on,
and as I began to actually turn, it was as if there was a voice inside my head
that said either stop, not meaning stop moving, stop what I'm doing, or no, might have just said no.
I think what I remember is it saying stop, or possibly don't.
And of course, I stayed in my lane and glanced around again, and I'd used my rear views as well to be clear,
but perhaps I didn't pay enough attention to the right passenger rear view.
There was a car in my blind spot, and there is a particular spot along the side of a car
where it's easy to miss even with some mirrors.
It's easy to miss that there's a car there.
There's actually probably a spot on both sides.
It's the position, like if a car is alongside your car,
and then subtract about a third to maybe a fifth or something of the length of the car and place it that far back.
Yeah, those two positions may not be completely blind, but they can be sometimes almost completely blind in some cars.
So yeah, there was a car there, and what was it that told me not to go?
Was it something like, was it the intelligence of my peripheral vision?
Was it my own peripheral intelligence?
I have to say that the thing that really surprised me wasn't so much that something had told me to stop.
Rather, it was, what I found surprising was that the voice did not seem to be my own.
If someone said, was that you, I would say no, it wasn't me.
Of course, who else is it?
It's what is something speaking in my own head, but it's not me.
What has access to the inside of my mind?
Oh, there's a young coyote here in front of me.
It looks pretty healthy, good coat, but it really shouldn't be awake at this time of day.
Generally not a good sign of the coyotes' rhythms.
Most of what it feeds on is going on at night, and is more safely accessed at night.
Though I guess if it's after, I mean a lot of it's prey are not eternal, unless it's just scavenging.
All right, so I have on maybe three occasions in my life heard a voice.
And on two of those occasions, in relative coherence with the literature on hemispheric lateralization,
the voice basically said one word, something like no or stop, also the negative assertion.
Not what to do, what not to do, right?
It's not a full on voice, but something similar told me not to kiss a girl.
Good luck with that.
In any case, I'm once in a state of relative exhaustion.
I heard a voice, quite remarkable actually.
I have to describe what I actually remember of the experience this time, this experience,
which is not so much, not really the same as having heard a voice.
And perhaps this is common in all the experiences, which now seem to number five or seven or
something over the course of my life.
Most of them were of the first kind, right, admonitory don't know, stop, don't do that.
One of them was annunciative.
That was a very peculiar hypnagogic experience, which I will resist the urge to reiterate what
it said, quote unquote, or what I heard, for the sake of not accidentally, of not unintentionally
producing a similar phenomenon in the minds of my listeners.
Because we are suggestive, or rather we are, yes, we are suggestive as well.
We are suggestible.
It is a common human propensity to be vulnerable to suggestion, so to speak, or available to
it.
Some of us learn and employ methods to resist that vulnerability.
And others of us are sort of neutral toward it, and some of us enhance it.
But yeah, in this case for safety's sake, I will not reiterate what was said in the
hypnagogic experience.
And then the final kind in my very small catalogue
is a denigrating voice.
And what I failed to explain in a very circular way is that in many cases it's not necessarily
so much as if I heard a voice, or maybe this is true in every case, as if
sort of the manifold of waveforms of my consciousness produced in consciousness, like collapsed into
a vocalization, or an expression of something resembling a vocalization.
And most so in this last element of the catalogue, which basically
a very eccentric old Southern man, like just denigrating me, like this kind of thing, briefly,
like for a few seconds.
And I thought that was both hilarious and terrifying.
It was hilarious because it was so clearly unexpected, strange, and hyperbolic, like
some kind of cartoon, or and actually.
It was terrifying because I realized like, oh my god, what would it be like if the manifold
of my consciousness commonly produced such a phenomena, which is extremely common in
the literature produced by and about people who hear voices, voice hearing peoples.
And I realized like that would really suck a lot.
I was so thankful that my mind quickly returned to a kind of observational and interior coherence.
But what was that?
Who said no?
Who said what was said during my hypnagogic experience?
Who said who was it that was sounding like a vicious, elderly, possibly intoxicated Southern,
insane man?
Whenever we have experience, and I'm particularly thinking of certain aspects of interior experience,
which often seems exterior to us, such as those common to hypnagogic or hypnopompic
encounters with something.
It seems that by far the most common unusual participant in hypnagogia, and much more commonly
in hypnopompia, the liminal domain between, in the latter case, the liminal domain between
sleep and dreaming and wakefulness.
What is commonly encountered there are things like the homunculus, right?
Something is sitting on my chest, it's like a demon, it may be feeding on me, I may be
paralyzed, I may be able to breathe, so forth.
Or also at least as common, and certainly quite common in males.
What I will refer to as the bad man.
AKA pure and adulterated evil, AKA the assassin of dreaming, or the dreamings assassin, or
apocalypse bringer, the one who brings apocalypse to the dreaming world, because they have the
off switch.
They can just shut off dreaming by inducing terror, anger, paralysis, a combination of
the three, maybe some other exotic things we might not even have language for, but in
any case, that feature of the self and experience, or the self and the other and experience is
quite profound.
And relatively terrifying when first encountered, although mostly with some few exceptions.
It turns out to be quite timid when, or even powerless when one learns to relate with it
in an open, curious way rather than a way that quickly polarizes itself to either fear
anger, fight flight, etc.
Yeah, that force, that aspect of consciousness turns out to be much more malleable than one
would at first expect.
So what is that?
Who's the bad man?
Um, and I remember in the first story I told in this recording about the lane changing,
I remember distinctly saying to myself, or noticing to myself the same way one might
notice, ah, that feels nice, or that feels rotten when, when, you know, testing a fruit
or touching a fabric or whatever.
In that very intimate way, right?
This otherness.
Yeah.
And certainly in the often hypnopompic experiences of a person at the end, a man usually, almost
invariably, I've never heard a person say it's a woman, though probably someone has a man at
the end of the bed, just outside the window in the bedroom at the doorway on the other
side of a frame of some kind.
Often the van is completely black, and I don't mean African, I mean like made of, made of
blackness.
Um, or, uh, this man commonly, excuse me, commonly wears a wide brimmed black hat, sometimes
the hat has a point, uh, he may be seen with a cape.
And is generally experienced as something so fundamentally wrong, right, the most common
reported feeling is one of, like the unrighteous antithesis of should be here.
Um, there is commonly the sense that the existence or localization of whatever that is is a
fundamental violation, right?
It's like, it's like if rape or murder or torture or all three were suddenly just embodied
in, in a non corporeal or metacorporeal, right?
It's just every bad thing could conceivably be inside that or emanating from it.
And yet, um, it's not my experience that in most cases, you know, certainly the humans
are diverse enough that in some of these cases, it may be mostly the case that there's a bad,
there is a bad being there.
And certainly as far as like consciousness, uh, is concerned, that thing is rotten and
terrible bad shouldn't be here.
It's a violation to see it to know it's there.
These are the feelings.
But I think in most cases, those feelings are, uh, they are misleading, um, because
most of the time what is actually there in the same way that when I began to make my
turn and a voice said, don't or stop, uh, and I knew it wasn't me.
It was, it felt like some kind of this cannot be me, right, feeling to my waking consciousness.
Um, I suspect there is something similar going on where it is the twin, um, the opposite
polarity, the other, the other within us that is actually us.
But it is across the boundary
from the polarization, the polarized focused, um, origin of awareness, right, that, that
lamp that lights the stage, but isn't the activity upon it.
And the light that that produces can be understood as a gaze, but that's separate from, especially
in Lacanian terms, for those of you who want to chase that little, um, that, that kite
tail.
Uh, but yes, the light, the absence that, that becomes contextual for awareness in different
ways while we are awake and while we are asleep and dreaming and while we are in one
of the liminal phases, so to speak, of hypnagogia, Gaugia perhaps, um, and hypnopompia.
There is another inside us that were we to suddenly encounter it either in wakefulness
or dreaming, we might feel especially if we're not experienced and by the way, um, what ends
up happening when such an encounter takes place is a complex dance in a dance in which
identity is negotiated, um, both identities, right?
The identity of the polarized, uh, the polarized mode of consciousness that has precedence.
Hey, Patrick, good to see you.
Um, it is the very polarization of consciousness in some mode that produces the felt, uh, the
intimately and viscerally felt senses of either affinity, like profound affinity such as when
I gaze on, um, a woman whose features are so attractive to me that I am, I feel basically
compelled, uh, and similarly, um, but, ah, fish just came all the way out of the water,
tried to fly, um, I love that, that is a beautiful metaphor, right, the fish is trying to fly
and for a moment succeeds, um, yeah, I mean, that's the promise of the moment when we are
at the boundary, right?
We have approached the membrane where the transition is now immediately present, right?
So we can just make, we move like a half an inch, we've gone from positive to negative,
from hot to cold, from alive to dead, from dead to alive, um, there's always this membrane
across which extreme polarization reaches a point where it becomes suddenly just flips
over into its opposite, uh.
And as we approach this, this boundary in awareness, uh, we will naturally encounter phenomena
that are sort of the standing reflection of the opposite just across from the membrane
produced by the polarization, right?
Membrane is the natural result of the extreme polarization of consciousness into, for example,
waking awareness or dreaming awareness, very different, um, modes, yet, uh, sharing a variety
of similar qualities, I'm looking at the surface of the water in the overcast afternoon
and, uh, the reflections are undergoing, the reflections of the trees around the little
pond are undergoing this beautiful, um, slow wave, uh, vibration, so to speak, but I want
a different word for it.
I like, I like the word from physics that I don't know what it means, fibration, a fibration.
There is a mud hen that seems to be interested in me whenever I come near the water, so I've,
I've gotten down low to say hello to it.
More than likely what it's hoping for or consents is that I sometimes feed birds, um, so I suppose
in this case, I will fulfill its obvious signaling with a peanut, which most birds like a lot.
No, those are just shells, no, don't have to chase those, I'm not gonna make you climb up onto the land.
Of course, part of me likes to think that, uh,
that the bird is just interested in me because I, I love the bird people and I once
tried to defend these, these particular people, the mud hen people, from being tortured by a
teenage boy, the only time I ever pulled a knife with the intention of killing someone
or at least some degree of that intention, right?
And you can see, obviously, that I'm approaching a similar kind of a boundary,
right, boundary between not killing and killing and what it takes to get me to cross it.
And in this case at age 14, what it took was
a person whose name I could say who was also 14.
Now, I wasn't 14, we were like 12 and a half, 13.
Yeah, a person with the initials RP, that's as far as I'll go.
Because I must presume that that, that young man was at least as confused
as I was or anyone was and so wasn't inherently evil or vicious, but was more likely stupid.
And even that insult is probably unjustified.
And somehow it is a sin and by a sin, I mean to miss the opportunity of being a beautiful being,
to invest oppositely against truth, against wisdom, against insight, against compassion.
It is generally harmful to the soul,
I think, to speak ill of others or to recount their failings.
Though sometimes we may be able to do so in a way which is, which turns out to be redemptive,
either for the listeners or the beings spoken of or both or more.
And in this case, my admonition would naturally transform.
It's funny, you know.
The organized religions in some cases, particularly the case perhaps of the Mormons or the Jehovah's
Witnesses, this leads to a secondary topic that was in the back of my mind when I began this, but
they often utilize the physical beauty of women in a relatively purposeful way
to attract
converts.
A dog is watching squirrels with meditative stillness. He has gone absolutely still.
It's very interesting to see he is poised like a carefully wound spring,
waiting for a moment in which he could explode.
So perhaps that's most of, most of the tension there is in my perspective,
my perception rather than his body.
Yes, so there is like another within us now, of course, in our time we,
like, there is another who we might be very likely to reject,
to monumentally like to reject with every fiber of our being.
And
within us, there's nobody else there, at least,
like that's a fallacy too, in a sense our interiority,
sorry, I'm a little winded,
can be understood as a strange ambient consensus, consensualizing.
People get so excited feeding birds bread, not realizing that
for a bird's digestion, that's essentially poison.
The terrifying irony of a smiling human feeding birds bread
is not lost on me.
But there I am doing the thing a moment ago, right?
I am pointing out the wrong doing of others, thereby doing wrong.
So funny to be human.
In our time, we may be familiar, for example,
with therapeutic modalities such as internal family systems, right?
I can generalize some of the principles here. There are aspects of our interiority
that take on coping tasks, often early in childhood,
that are carrying painful burdens often, some of them.
And that if we give them a seat at the table and allow them to speak
in their native voice and tone without judgment and with encouragement and so forth,
then we can essentially remove the pain of the charged histories and tasks.
They have been executing, they have been doing,
and we can either help to reintegrate in some cases, right?
You don't have to be apart anymore. You can come be us together,
or they can go to another place where they belong, in some case, if they are.
If, from within this paradigm, they are understood to be entities or
like not bound aspects of self, but something actually from outside.
Those things can be sent home or invited to return home in kinder language.
And the whole idea is to just allow them to speak and be seen
with compassion and reverence and kind regard. A very useful idea.
I think whenever therapeutic modalities start to become cults,
and we start to formally believe in a relatively explicit way, the models implied or presented,
then we are losing sight of the fact that this is a toy.
And we are starting, now it starts to become reified, and once it becomes reified,
it will actually produce the phenomena it's trying, it proposes resolution of.
And that's very important to understand in terms of our own psyche.
There are certain kinds of concepts and ways of identifying what something is
that actually produce, they produce a shadow in awareness, and once reified,
that shadow can become almost tangible, almost physically real.
And in some cases, perhaps, we can actually produce the intrusion into our experience from
outside of a physically real situation. In a kind of reverse of what is very naively
referred to as the law of attraction, by constantly positing something
in the psyche or in thought or in concern, let's say we have a very terrifying fear
of falling into the water because we cannot swim. And always we are afraid of this,
we have nightmares about it and so forth. Eventually, that situation is very likely to
generate its apotheosis, its fulfillment in an actual, you know, you're walking your
lake and you actually, you step in some slippery, boom, you're in the water.
You know. I'm not necessarily claiming that it's magical, though there are probably forms of it
that may reasonably qualify. Rather, in this case, I think of it as psychical.
PSYCHE, psychical. The psyche.
Which meaning, what is it, okay, what do I mean by that?
It's like a kind of a water underneath consciousness, a kind of many waters,
you have different sorts, different kinds of flows.
And it is symbolic and metaphoric. It is mythical.
It is,
in a sense, it's a bit like a private language of symbols, correlations,
affinities, disaffinities, histories, futures, dreams, terrors, so forth.
Yeah, like a private language. In a way, a secret lexicon.
So we live in a time where we have these modalities that
encourage us to think about our interiority in terms of parts. This was always relatively
intuitive to me, except I didn't really like the language of parts, because
the fingers on my hand are not parts of my hand, they're members. So I would prefer that language
because it's no more natural to me. I'm up talking, aren't I?
Or rather, I'm using a rising tone at the end of my statements, and that time I used a lowered,
lowering tone.
So yes, I see them as aspects or facets of a unity. First, that's when I used a kind of a lilt,
accidentally, because I was just trying to find a direction in which to avoid
the ascending tone at the end.
So yes, I saw them as facets, and it's not clear whether the facet is a natural feature of
the interior, like our interiority, or rather it is produced. The impression of facets is produced
by the purposes of the perspective with which we approach looking.
With which we approach seeing the self, why we are looking.
Much of what we think of as the true is not the true. Much of what we think of as is the case,
is not the case. Rather, these analyses and derivations are produced
by the specific structure of our inquiry. In other words, what motivates our inquiry?
What are we hoping to see or evaluate? What are we hoping to learn or understand?
And what are the historical lifelines, the roots that lead us to
inquiry in the moment? Chasing, inquiring, observing, analyzing,
forming data sets, forming distributions over the data sets, forming derivations
over the data. And so for example, if I say men are violent, then I'm making a single-valued
derivation over some imagined data set. But if I actually examine the behavior of say
a hundred men within a thousand feet of me, I'm going to find precisely zero of them that are
actually being violent right now. If I do actual analysis, then I go and get the data
in the real world somewhere. Even that is subject to biases and predispositions.
There is also an interior problem where we
will tend to displace. If there's something I'm steadfastly ignoring about myself
or really do not wish to see or I'm highly invested in not becoming aware of,
then I'm likely to displace that onto a scapegoat or others.
And you can see how all of these topics are really about
what happens at the boundary of self and other. But originally the thing that I wanted to highlight
and took my time getting to is that there is an other who is actually me
who I will not acknowledge when presented with his appearance.
And there are certain contexts in which encountering this other will move me,
will motivate me to something resembling violence or at least the demonstration of anger.
And the other finds that hilarious because not always. I mean look there's a million ways
that the negotiation of identity can work out when the polarizing consciousness looks
across the membrane, the mirror, and discovers the absence of itself as a presence.
God this is such an important topic in human cognition and psychology.
When absences form presences,
so funny, one of my friends who I am no longer close with
was constantly teaching me about this by their complaint,
by their complaints actually and by the description of their affinities.
And I just kept seeing it and I can see you know with the light that they cast on the topic
from their experience that allowed me to see my own because my own is this is so true of many
of my relationships. My own psyche's structure may be very similar but is not quite as explicit
and so when they cast this light of the experience of the explicitness of it,
it right the
okay if we have a process and we iterate the process on its own output
but this is in mathematics and computation is called recursion.
And in mathematics and computation
it does produce something.
I mean there is there is a resulting artifact or quantity or for example for example fractals
the structures that we call fractals are produced by this method and so
is the mathematical computation of factorial often indicated as n with an exclamation point.
To determine the number of positions that open a lock
which has a ring of four digits that each go from zero to nine
we use a factorial computation
which I cannot recall at the moment it may be
so that's 10 to the fourth power so it may be
yes I cannot remember at the moment
but we use a factorial computation and this involves recursion
a girl just walked past me and she was telling her friend that
she had been dreaming about something and she was very embarrassed she said I'm not embarrassed to
tell you but I'm embarrassed that my mind was doing this sort of without my permission
like I wouldn't agree if it asked me is it want me do you want to do this I just say no
in a stunning example of the problem or the the matter at hand
the psyche is
one in a sense but it's not merely one
it's not only one it is also many
and contains within it others features that we would definitely not be inclined
if we are untrained to regard a self-similar or self
and so when we encounter them these features
are extremely triggering and similarly if we should encounter something we are displacing
in ourselves we encounter it if we encounter its reflection in another or a situation
we will react it will be very triggering and often if we actually look at who's setting up
the structure that
the structure in the psyche
that when it is touched produces immediate disturbance of either kind affinity
disaffinity affinity or rejection
then if we look carefully at the history of that structure we will find our fingerprints
all throughout it we may have had experiences that were primarily
instigated or
enacted and perhaps even you know to us or or or on us or something right in the
terms of some kind of violation but rarely does the the actual event
have as much gravitas as well my vocabulary is actually working today it's astonishing
rarely does the event have as much gravitas as our response to it what we make of it
what we decide to do with it
in our psyche in our emotions in our analyses
you know i was having many of these things i learned at the knee
so to speak of one of my very dear friends
who
who suffered various forms of psychosis or what we would generally refer to as that
hey good to see you
throughout his life
he was one of my greatest teachers
and someone who i love very dearly
he was mostly unmedicated and trying to negotiate his existence almost entirely alone
under very dire circumstances
he took his life
but he helped me to see what it might look like and feel like
if some of what we would think of as the darker features
of the underbelly
of consciousness awareness cognition
particularly under the influences of shattering right
what happens when we use the phoneme skits to point at this kind of shattering
he helped me to understand what it would be like and also what it must mean
that such shattering is possible what causes it
some of what causes it i was able to see
the
i learned so much from him and it was him
it was a conversation with him in which the insight struck me that there was
a sort of an opposite to the dreaming mind
and one of its functions is to interrupt dreaming shut it down in cases where it's
happening at the wrong time or where the many waveforms that have to harmonize to
produce that experience are disharmony is and so in either case what you want to do
because you'll produce a forward habit gravity right you'll produce gravity
and habit going forward if you allow the dysregulation to proceed that will
eventually produce more dysregulation right
so it's wise to interrupt that that produces the possibility of a reset
and then with enough resets you're likely to establish a harmonious waveform that is coherent
again
so you can see that in the case where someone's having
hypnopompic experience at all it's not necessarily abnormal but it's abnormal in the sense of
what usually happens and proceeds
and you know one hears of people for example who experience sleep paralysis every night
or who have other forms of hypnagogic or hypnopompic experience
very regularly throughout their lives whereas for most of us we may
experience a phase where it's common
but that will usually pass
it was listening to William my friend
and his discussion of what it was like to feel how it felt to have his
experience of mind the painful conflicted struggle of wanting to destroy everything
and feeling entirely powerless at the same time
also of being a heartfelt and gentle human being who
at the same time felt so violated by everything that the humans do
not so much by nature everything that the humans do
that he wanted to put in that that an aspect of him was intensely
omnicidal right killed everything I mean he spent years trying to figure out
how to make the sun blow up or how to destroy the universe if it was possible
and you can see from one perspective the reflection
of the assassin of dreams because the assassin of dreams is a world ending
that's the right word potentiate
it's a world-ending diamond
it has the job of cutting the power that funds the universe of the dream
it doesn't necessarily care a lot about anything other than shutting that down
and since it has in one limited dimension infinite power right it has the power to
end the universe of the dream since it has in one dimension that omnipotent power
if it should escape its proper context right which is the liminal the end of the dream cycle
of the night or an end of a cycle in the night if it escapes that context and comes for some reason
arises over here in waking consciousness right if the absence
becomes a presence here if the absence of dreaming becomes a presence in waking thought
that thing is prone it can transform in many ways but its most common transformation
is into violent generally masculine violent
anger rage and killing it wants to kill it wants to kill everybody
it would like to kill everyone at once but if it can't get away with that
it will happily take the human body in which this transformation has occurred
pick up a gun and just start mowing people down somewhere
and that is probably the most likely explanation for much of mass killing that is not commonly
understood or if it is is sort of kept secret by the people who study it
one of the one of the causes of sudden explosive mass violence
is this faculty of the psyche that under certain conditions becomes distorted or warped
and or transfers from the liminal space at the end of dreaming
or possibly sometimes at the beginning into you know it appears in waking consciousness
as a faculty and
you know serial killers and murderers and others in fact rapists and so on torturers many of them
are probably playing this out though I remember when I floated this theory in my 20s
or I floated a similar theory in my 20s I had not yet understood anything about
this function back then but I was trying to understand the nature of evil like what is evil
and some of the students I was with were like oh evil is nothing other than obeying orders
and I was like yeah I don't think so like yeah but that's what the nazis said and so forth like yeah
good for them it doesn't I get that that's a piece of the pie right but it's interesting that humans
will obey orders that that demand that they completely defect from everything human moral
ethical beautiful compassionate intelligent
and then the the excuse later as well my boss told me to and they'd kill me if I didn't so I had to
my point however was just that William helped me to see
the structure of this faculty and after he did so
there was a dream in which an assassin actually came for me within like two days
maybe even the next night in the dream what I recall of the dreaming experience I should say
is that an assassin actually came for me and I gently put him to sleep
laid him on he was a man all black covered in knives
all right he was coming to kill me like a sort of a fantasy
dungeons and dragons assassin guy and I just put him to sleep took his knives and walked away
kept on dreaming and ever since then when that faculty arises I now have a problem
because
that faculty has an important job
under under ordinary conditions that faculty has a very important job and the job is to keep
keep
to keep the rhythm of the dreaming awareness
much more fun to run through the trees and the bushes right then along the path
yeah much more fun
yeah that that that feature has a function and its function is to ensure that the
the synchronization of a broad array of rhythms is supported and enhanced
and not allowed to drift toward even further dysregulation or desynchronization
and particularly to keep that from
um
to keep that from becoming imprinted
as a zeitgeber or zeitstorer let's see which one I think zeitstorer
as a feature of experience that contributes to dysregulation going forward
think that's zeitstorer
but I can't remember
obviously it's time giver time something maybe taker zeitgeber yeah so there are
there are behaviors situations for example exposure to morning sunlight tends to synchronize us
exposure to
blue light at night tends to screw up our circuit what we think of as our circadian rhythms
there are things that contribute to emotional synchronization metabolic synchronization
circadian synchronization and these are all each of these things have like you know 900
associated variables and elements that contribute to either
either they have no effect or they have a negative overall negative effect
or they overall have a positive effect according to how we analyze them of course
so
the goal of this faculty its primary function appears to me to be I mean given my analysis of it
appears to me to be that uh
it prohibits ongoing desynchronization or dysregulation
when it's doing its best job
obviously there are situations where it becomes more or less pathologically
quite
it's exaggerated and claimed
rigid. Won't dissolve so forth
And then we can see, you know, something that ordinarily is obscured because the faculty
becomes so, little girl is just like beaming at me, my goodness, so charming. It's the opposite of
everything I'm talking about, right? It's just like the light coming from a young child's face is
just incredibly beautiful, living light. Wow. Yeah, that definitely changed my channel pretty much
instantaneously. Maybe I should receive that signal. I think I will. I've mostly covered what it was my
intent to explore at this point, and so I'm very grateful to all of you for accompanying me on this
journey, for learning and seeing together with me, and for your attention, and for the incredible
courage it takes to just be human in the world we live in today, while surrounded by and encompassed
by and infected with every imaginable motivation to defect. Yeah, so thanks for being heroically
yourself, and I hope you get to play and dance and create and dream and love and trust and heal in
every moment of your experience. I look forward to learning together again soon. Bye bye for now. All blessings.
