Thank you.
Thank you.
Okay. I have about an hour. Do you want to continue the interview?
Yeah, absolutely. Are we waiting for Henrietta?
Henrietta is taking some tea.
You making some tea?
Yeah.
Anyway, yeah, what do you want to talk about?
So, first of all, I'm very happy to have this chance to chat with you again. Really appreciate you making some time.
Thanks.
You know absolutely everybody in the community. I mean, Whitley Strieber, Linda Molnthau. I'm sure you knew Art Bell when he was alive.
I didn't know him, but I met him once.
George Knapp. I mean, the list is...
I just saw George Knapp at the conference. You should come out to the next Contact in the Desert.
Yeah. I mean, since my roommate goes, it'd be easy for me to do that.
Who's your roommate? Do I know him?
I don't know if you guys have formally met. He knows who you are.
What's his name?
His name is Mike Rezel. He is Let's Talk UFOs on the UFO Reddit. He's one of the mods there, and he's been a mod there for a long time.
Oh, really? I like UFO Reddit. It's a lot more friendly than UFO Twitter. That's like a jungle.
He works really, really diligently to keep that community in good shape, and he was also...
I didn't have a question about UFO Twitter, actually.
Someone made a really intelligent comment, and let me see if I can find that person.
Why doesn't he come on the call with us?
Right now. So he's active in a variety of different communities.
He's also a mod on Our Experiencers, which, of course, is a place where people can discuss non-ordinary experience.
Where can I find that?
I'll send you a link to that subreddit when we finish today, and I can certainly put you in touch with him.
He is also extremely active in the Burning Man community, and so presently, he's part of the Department of Public Works out there, and so he sets the place up, and he stays to tear it down when everybody's left.
So, yeah, he's at Burning Man right now, otherwise he would...
Oh, he's at Burning Man now.
Yeah, he would joyfully be on the call with us.
And he's at Burning Man setting it up, because it's not...
Of course, it's going to be about a week before he gets to GERLAC, I think is where the DPW meets, Department of Public Works.
He was also active in setting up a website that allows people to create an account there, and then automatically email their representatives with pro-disclosure materials, right, to encourage the representatives to support disclosure, whatever the heck that may turn out to mean.
Okay.
So, I have...
I want to get to some sort of juicy questions here today.
Okay, yes, I'm putting this in the chat.
This guy had some good comments on Reddit.
See if he knows him.
Okay, absolutely.
And new Renaissance, yeah.
Yeah, there we go.
All right.
Okay, ask me some questions, yeah.
I just want to say, I'm reading a good book called The UFO Paradox, Keith Thompson, very intelligent.
Can you say a little bit about what you find unique or interesting about that?
Well, he's not looking for answers, which is impossible at this point.
He's presenting the facts, which is what I like to do, what we know and what we don't know, and how to get from where we know or what we don't know to where we can know.
So, that takes a whole different way of looking at things.
There she is, Miss America.
Hi.
Hi, Henrietta.
Hey, Henrietta, how are you?
Hi, Alan.
I wonder, is Kat and Mario out here?
Yes, they are.
Oh, give me their number.
I will.
I'll send you Kat.
I think they're coming tomorrow or the next day, but they're there, yeah.
Well, they're there.
Yeah, I want to see them, because I'm in the very nice house this year.
Yes, I know.
You can't get to New York this week?
No, I can't.
Why?
Next year.
What's going on for you?
Well, I'm going away this weekend, but, yeah, no, I can't, because I can't really afford to.
I've got to wait until September.
Oh.
But I wish I could be on Far Island.
Next year, I'll plan it better.
Okay.
Yeah.
Okay, good.
Anyway, yeah, let's go.
It's very lovely, yes.
Yes.
Well, we'll chat another time.
You can give me the talk.
Let me just, let me give you and Darren a quick look around at this.
Hi, Darren.
At this house that I'm, well, this is the house.
Oh, wow.
The house is not.
Great.
Oh, it's not the same one as.
No, no, it's a different.
This is a very nice bedroom here.
Oh, it's lovely, Alan.
Yes.
This is.
Oh, it's really nice.
Darren, we, I've been with Alan to Far Island like three summers in a row, and it's just lovely.
There are no cars.
There are no cars, and everybody just walks barefoot on the boardwalk.
It's a little hidden paddy, guys.
You bicycle around, and you feel like you're in like a Spielberg movie in the 1980s, you know, riding bicycles kind of into the sunset.
It's just amazing.
Well, look at the backyard here.
Oh, it's, it's fantastic, Alan.
It's lovely.
It's a nice backyard.
It's really nice.
Oh, God, I wish I was there more than, yeah.
Yeah.
Well, anyway.
Very nice.
Very nice.
Outdoor shower, of course, Darren.
You need an outdoor shower when you're.
I, that was my favorite thing ever.
I know.
It's a house in Creighton, and they had an outdoor shower, and I just loved it.
I didn't even care if the water was hot.
Yeah.
This is the outdoor shower.
You'd love it there, Darren.
So the island, Far Island, is like this little strip.
You can just walk, you know, and it's just, it's very unscathed.
You can walk for miles.
You can walk for 20 miles.
And there's just no, there's no traffic.
It's just lovely.
There's no, and it doesn't feel like there's media.
You just feel like you're bicycling and talking and walking and cooking.
It's really nice.
Beautiful.
And obviously going in the ocean in the early.
I'll just, I'll just show you a little view of the street out here.
Oh, it's great, Alan.
This is the street.
Wow.
And the beach, we're like three houses from the beach.
It's right there.
I recognize that house.
Yeah.
It's a nice house across the street, of course.
Yes.
This is, this is the, yeah, I love the vegetation.
I grew up in like this kind of environment.
So it's very comfortable here.
I know.
I feel much more comfortable there than England.
I mean, that's where I want to be really.
Well, anyway, let's talk.
Go ahead.
Yeah, let's talk.
What's going on?
You were talking about the book.
I'm curious if you encountered any thoughts or ideas in there that you found novel or inspiring.
Yes, novel and inspiring.
I have this particular one by, by Keith Thompson, The UFO Paradox.
I've been reading that book, which is very interesting, Henrietta.
And he says, he says, oh, he says, Rudolf Otto, you know him?
He was a student of Freud.
He talks about the mysterious tremendum.
Have you heard that term, mysterious tremendum?
Which means the mystery that is both terrifying and transforming and fascinating at the same time.
Terrifying and fascinating.
I guess that's really essentially.
And that's what the phenomena is.
It fits the bill in all accounts.
He says, oh, calling it a phenomena is much more inclusive than calling it an object.
So calling it an unidentified aerial phenomena is much more to the point than calling it an unidentified flying object.
So that's something I think the government is suggesting to us as a way of advancing our knowledge.
And what do you think of that?
Well, certainly the situation calls into question all of our common ideas about categories and identity.
What things are, who we are, what the world is, what time space is.
All of these things are drawn dramatically into question because the phenomenon does not represent itself in a continuously identifiable fashion.
And in fact, you know, you can imagine there's both the sort of stories where there's a kind of a playful element to the interaction and there's stories where there's a very dire element to the interaction.
And there's stories that sort of overlap both of those where the primary nature of what's going on is just mysterious, right?
Yes.
So I'm curious, clearly, Alan, you're aware that a variety of psyops have been going on for quite some time, organized at least by the United States government, if not other governments as well.
Well, I'd love to hear anything you have to say about that, that you might, that you think might be enlightening.
About the psyops in regards to UFOs?
Yes, to the phenomenon.
In regards to the phenomenon, I just wrote a little piece about that.
Let me see if I can find that piece because I think psyops is a big, well, you know, the Air Force had a ridicule campaign against people coming forward.
It's about the manipulation, let me just look upside down, yeah, it's, some people, though, say it's, it's on behalf of the phenomena itself, I'm sure you heard that, is dictating to those in charge how to approach the ongoing disclosure, you know?
Well, I find this very interesting, I'm curious about your thoughts related to, okay, let me ask a couple of staging questions so that we can have some clarity about what's being asked.
Obviously, I suspect in your mind, if there are intelligence, other intelligences involved, non-human intelligences, I suspect you imagine that there is an array of such intelligences.
Well, that's the point in question, though.
Wait, wait, before you go any further, let me just address that point.
There is and there isn't.
There's either an array of intelligence or somehow, because they all seem to be all connected with each other.
Sometimes you see different types of ETs together, or sometimes they're good, sometimes they're bad, you get Carla Turner, who had awful abduction experiences, then you get Chris Bledsoe, who had these amazing healings.
So, are they all the same, are they different?
I say, and you'll like this, Henrietta, they're part of what I would say is nature, a supernatural nature.
So, you know, you could get stung by a bee, or you could smell a rose, that's all nature, you know, so they're all part of one thing, in a sense, because we call it nature, and they're also very different aspects of that nature.
You know, nature, you could be nourished, or you can eat a poison mushroom, I mean, there's, there's, so within our limited, very limited range of categorizations, we see separateness in the phenomena like we do in the world, or, you know, animals eat animals, things like that.
It's like, oh, so, is that good or bad? It's all the natural world. So, I just saw a great film about Jane Goodall studying the chimps. Did you see that? I saw her in the plane.
Isn't that fantastic?
Yes, it is. It's really beautiful.
It's, she's just so amazing.
I remember, I remember reading a book about Gombay when I was in my early 20s, and I was just absolutely enchanted by her.
Oh, she's amazing.
Well, she said, I thought, she said, I thought the chimps were very peaceful and loving, and then one tribe ended up killing and wiping out the other tribe, and an awful, inhuman, I mean, humans are inhuman, but in a way, so,
so it's separate things, and it's one thing, just like nature.
Okay, so one of the nuances that I think you're bringing up here is that we can, we, as interested human beings, and as intelligent, hopefully human beings, can approach it from different angles for different purposes.
We can approach it from unity as, as nature, right, the broad picture, and then we can also approach it from the desire to distinguish between various contact events and situations.
So, okay, that, I think that, but you know who wrote a really great essay about this is Jeffrey Krippel.
You know Jeffrey Krippel?
Yeah, he's brilliant.
I love him.
He has the, we should go there, Henrietta, the Archives of the Impossible.
Yes, yes.
Whitley Streber just was there, and he outlaid all the pictures people sent him from the communion letters, and incredible stuff, you know, you know.
Yeah, the Archives of the Impossible are amazing.
I've listened to many podcasts from different angles of the archives, I think including Whitley's, Whitley was a speaker there.
Yeah.
Okay, so let's see, where was I going here?
So, you mentioned that perhaps some faction or a number of factions are influencing probably primarily the United States government, because it seems like we're the front, we're in the front of this game of disclosure and probably of craft recovery, body recovery, the whole historical.
I mean, do you have any evidence that other countries are anywhere near us?
Well, not only are we are in possession, but we have a very imperialistic view of crash retrieval and other, like there's evidence, I talked to Jaime Mustana about this, that the U.S. went into Mexico, killed the Mexican army, and took their craft over the border.
They also went into Brazil and got the Virginia craft there, they've gone into Canada, somehow, they feel they can just go into a country and get the craft.
They got the craft from Italy that was being kept by the Vatican from the 1933 thing that Mussolini showed Hitler, and because he thought it was Nazis, you heard about that, right?
So, somehow, there's this sense that the U.S. is in control of the phenomena.
I don't know how or why other countries, especially Russia, that was my big complaint about Tucker Carlson going to talk to Putin.
And did you see that, which he did a really poor job, but he didn't ask him the UFO question, and Tucker's into UFOs.
I mean, how could you miss that one?
All right, so let's just, let me circle a couple of pivots here for a moment.
So, you know, I've thought very carefully about this, and I've followed the phenomena since I was a child, perhaps not as long as you, Alan, but since I was six or seven.
So, we're talking 1969 or something, right?
I read Chariots of the Gods when I was eight years old, and I've been fascinated by this forever, and I've paid very close attention and have not been caught up in the cult, so to speak, but more intellectually and philosophically and perhaps even scientifically interested.
And one thing that is obvious to me is that any faction of human beings that are in possession of technology, artifacts, or bodies from a non-human intelligence are in possession of the Holy Grail of asymmetric military advantage, literally the Holy Grail.
This is the most important thing in the entire history of our species, right?
So, any faction of government or a civilization that is in possession of just even intelligence about the topic would likely, be likely to represent a sort of a speciation event, a breakaway civilization.
What do you think?
What are your thoughts about this, Alan?
I see no evidence of a breakaway civilization.
I asked Richard Dolan, who actually originated that term, and I said, Richard, where's the proof?
And he couldn't give me a straight answer.
So, I do think we're in possession of the technology, but I don't think we know how to actually duplicate it.
That's the problem.
But would you agree that a faction in possession of that tech represents space?
Okay, let me make an example, right?
Imagine that there's a small faction of humans that possess, for example, advanced computing devices, and the rest of the people just have pen and paper.
Are these two different species?
Because this seems to be the question to me.
What do you think, Alan?
I don't think we are in possession of zero-point energy at this point.
I don't think we have understood how to incorporate alien technology into Newtonian physics, you know?
Of course, I agree.
I mean, but some people say, yeah, there's a breakaway civilization.
We have craft out in space.
Linda Moulton Howell thinks that.
And I disagree with her.
I mean, I love Linda, but she's saying, oh, yeah, the U.S. is going to Mars.
I don't see any evidence.
Or the Serpo projects and where they went to Serpo.
So, I don't see any evidence of it.
I mean, I see evidence of a cover-up.
I see evidence of ETs manipulating consciousness.
I see all that.
But you don't see us.
I mean, I think we have advanced technologies, yes.
I mean, some people are flying jets and other people are flying these triangular craft.
So, we are definitely more advanced.
And it just so happens when people quit the military and they've been working on these black projects,
they go into private industry and make a fortune there, you know, which should be illegal.
So, what's your question then?
What is your question?
So, I mean, obviously, the possession of even intelligence about nonhumans would represent an asymmetric military advantage.
Not if they can't produce technology from it.
Yes, but I mean, you know, we have a long history of likely, what would I call it,
technologies influenced by perhaps nonhuman technologies, for example, fiber optics and transistors.
What are your, do you think there has been an influence?
Yeah.
I think if you read Current Corsos, the day after Roswell, he talks about the transistors and fiber optics all coming from the Roswell thing.
And so, you know, Gary, Nolan recently made an excellent example.
He was like, well, suppose we were able to transport, say, a cell phone back in time to cavemen, right?
They wouldn't be able to use it as a cell phone.
But by examining the cell phone, they might be able to discover the possibility of glass, right?
And then, like, melt sand, maybe.
And so, he was saying that we might be in a similar position where we've received these artifacts that we don't understand and can't use,
but they can inspire certain very specific developments.
Well, that's what happens.
If you read Diana Paselka, did you read American Cosmic?
Oh, of course, yes.
And her latest book, Encounters?
I'm working on that one now.
She talks about the guy, Tyler, going in, creating medicine that can only be made in anti-gravity.
Right, right, yeah.
So, there's a donation field, too, that she talks about, you know, where they set down craft so we can gather technology from it.
So, that's happening.
But we have yet, in my opinion, developed a technology that can go interdimensionally or something like that.
So, okay, that's just so many questions.
Yes, that makes sense to me.
I want to ask you about a couple of background stories and your thoughts about them.
So, there's some anecdotal stories that there was direct contact between, let's just call them aliens for now,
even though we really mean non-human intelligences, and a specific people or branches of the United States government.
Perhaps there was an offer made.
Here's the specific rumor that I want to ask you about.
Wait, wait.
Wait, where are you getting that information from?
I think you'll recognize the story when I bring it up.
So, there's an anecdotal story that there was an offer of PAC that would give us, you know, no more scarcity.
Wait, say that again.
I just had to turn off the air conditioning.
So, what were you saying?
So, there's an anecdotal story that perhaps Eisenhower or another president was, or possibly the military was approached with an offer of the end of scarcity, right?
Something like zero-point energy and freedom from disease and so on.
And this offer was turned down because it would destroy our economy.
And then a later faction came and said, well, how about weapons?
And we said yes to that.
Have you ever heard anything like that yourself?
Well, yeah, of course, that they've traded technology for alien abductions.
Yeah, I've heard that.
That's a comment.
That was the anecdotal trade pivot, right?
Was, we'll give you weapons in return for bodies.
I don't know if that's true.
Some people say Eisenhower didn't meet aliens.
Other people say, like Richard Dolan's interview, that he invaded Area 51 because no one would tell him what was going on there.
So, I don't think anyone except like a very few people actually know the answer to the Eisenhower situation.
So, I don't, I think it's possible, but I don't know.
I don't, I don't, I'm not one of those insiders.
But I do want to read Lou Alessandro's book when it comes out in just 20 days, a couple of, two, three weeks.
Get that, Henrietta.
Get Eminent.
And by the way, Henrietta, if you have a question or anything you want to contribute or ask, just jump on it.
I'm just enjoying listening because I, I don't know all this information.
I just have my own thoughts.
You know, I was in a crop circle once in 888 on the 888 crop circle.
And when, because it was new, there was this black helicopter that came very low to the ground, was photographed, videotaping everything.
And I was going to take, videotape the helicopter, but I felt like, no, don't do that.
I don't know.
It felt weird.
Like they were watching.
I don't know.
I just didn't want to get involved in that whole thing.
Yeah.
That makes sense.
It was very strange, this, because it was incredible formation.
Where was that?
In England on August 8th, 2008, it was in the shape of an eight.
And it was quite amazing as if they were responding to our cultural, you know, counting.
So with an eight, but it wasn't just an eight.
It was a Mobius strip eight where the outside becomes the inside.
So they would give you something.
Yeah.
Go to look at the eight formation.
Yeah.
No, I was just having a look.
Yeah.
So a couple of questions here.
I don't have one.
Yeah.
Go ahead.
Let me see if I can focus.
So one of the things is, oh, okay.
Yes.
This is one of the questions.
In your mind, when you think about these matters, do you, does it ever occur to you
that perhaps what's going on has nothing to do with technology, that it's something else
altogether, that it's not about machines?
Because the humans keep saying, it's about machines.
It's got to be about machines.
Give us the machines.
We want the machines.
What do you think?
Might it not be mechanical?
Well, you keep asking either or, and I'm saying both and.
Sure.
And so it is physical.
This is Jeffrey Kripal's great contribution.
He says there's a doubling effect.
It's physical and non-physical.
It's subjective and objective.
It's material and immaterial.
It's consciousness.
It's technology.
It's things we can't understand because we're very limited in our scope of either it's this
or that.
So the wave particle thing is, it's not that either it's a wave or a particle.
It's both a wave and a particle.
It's also something we don't have a concept for.
Exactly.
Which is what we're talking about.
It's missing the features that might allow us to address or entertain the perspectives that
would be enlightening, I think.
Exactly.
I'm going to find this quote by Noam Chomsky.
He's not talking about UFOs, but he's talking about something that we can relate to as far
as this discussion.
That was a very timely and brilliant comment.
And it's just.
I very much appreciate that because I'm someone who, you know, based on my own experiences,
have brave mistrust of the way that we modernize categories and binary logic and so forth.
I was specifically trained to hold multiple perspectives in a perspectival manifold, right?
Without validating any single perspective, just to hold the space of a manifold in consciousness
in order to think about things that don't fit with how we are ordinarily trained to use
categories and to think about identity.
Right, so you can't, it's what John Mack said, we need other ways of knowing.
We can't understand this with our left brain.
This isn't, I'm sure it's logical on some level, but it's not logical in the way we understand
and use logic.
That's the bottom line.
I mean, we're not sophisticated enough to, but we can be, we need more abstract thinking
or what John Keats called negative capabilities.
You know that term?
I don't say more about what he means.
I have an intuition.
Negative capability.
It's not a very good term, but it's a way to hold contradictory thoughts at the same time.
Simultaneously.
Simultaneously, yes.
Simultaneously.
And yeah, together.
And that's an evolution.
So we're thinking either or.
Either it's technology or it's not.
They're showing us our next phase of evolution.
You know, we've gotten so far, but we're still running the world on Newtonian physics.
That's 400 years old.
You know, power out, power back.
Cause and effect.
These things are not running on cause and effect.
They're running on cause and effect at the same time.
There's, there's a whole different way.
And we are slowly being educated, sometimes traumatically, sometimes not in a new way of
thinking, but there's so much resistance because like Neil deGrasse Tyson, he says, oh no, those
it was the tic-tac was an artifact of the radar, the radar on the plane.
And Fravor says, no, I saw, he didn't say it to Tyson, but he said, no, I saw this with
my own eyes.
This was not, and, and, and Neil deGrasse Tyson refuses to even hear that.
He says, you know, it's impossible.
It's only impossible because it doesn't fit into my worldview.
So.
I mean, face it.
I know BMWs.
I mean, Tyson is a television personality with a stipend to defend and is what I would
call a sophisticated idiot as far as this topic.
No, it's, it, it goes back to Thomas Kuhn, you know, Thomas Kuhn theories of scientific
revolution.
He was actually a mentor to John Mack.
He was a friend of the family.
Brilliant.
Uh-huh.
And, and John, and he was older.
He was, he was a friend of John's father and he's, John gets into the abduction stuff and
he calls up Thomas Kuhn and he says, Tom, I think I got one, meaning I think I got a paradigm
buster here, you know?
So, so Thomas Kuhn says to Mack, don't form a judgment.
Just hear it all without evaluating, without saying it's, it's possible or not.
Take in all the information first and then do the evaluation, which is something Francis
Bacon and, and, and William James both talked about in empiricism, you know, Francis Bacon,
William James, John Mack.
They all, um, kind of, um, trusted the phenomena, the experience over, over, um, you know, scientific
method.
Hmm.
The scientific method does not work when you're, you know, living real life situations.
It's not repeatable.
It's not provable in that term.
Um, yes, the, um, the scope of the applicability of repeatability and reductionism is real, but
is minimum, it's minimal compared to what actually exists.
There is no subjective and objective reality.
First of all, those are fabrications, just like time and space is a fabrication.
We think it's real, but we think we're in these video screens too, or we think we are, but,
you know, really we're not in these little computer screens here, but if I thought I was in that
computer screen, then that would be my whole world.
And, um, I would, but it's like the, of course it goes back to the allegory of the cave.
It's no different.
It's just a little updated version of play.
And also flatland.
Flatland.
Yeah.
Flatland too.
Yeah.
Okay.
So, um, so many more questions.
Um, who do you think is doing some of the best current work on the topic?
Gary Nolan definitely is one of the more intelligent voices out there.
Also a crusader.
What's that?
He's a crusader.
Yeah.
That's it.
He's not insulting the sword.
Right.
The link to the Jeffrey Kripal talk that he did at soul, which is the Gary Nolan that's
in the chat.
He's doing great work.
I mean, he's a little conservative, but he's great.
He wrote the supernatural book, Henry editor with Whitley.
Yes.
Kripal.
You mean Kripal?
Yes.
Yeah.
No, I, I, he's amazing.
We should go, let's go to Texas sometime to Rice university and check out the archives
on the impossible.
Yeah.
Um, yeah, no, no, no, no, go ahead.
I want to hear from you.
Very, just a very quick question.
I know this might, I mean, it sounds really weird, but it keeps popping up.
Like, does anybody ever speak to children that see them?
Like all these.
Well, John.
It occurs to me that it's all these people thinking for God.
About, which of course is good, but like, what's the, you know, what if you just don't
have that capacity to analyze in ways that.
Oh, John, Matt did talk to children.
He did.
I mean, I'm kind of curious, like, how would that impact them?
Like, it would be so interesting to know, you know, children who've, who have experienced
these things because it would just be a kind of.
Oh, well, you know, actually, if you read my book and maybe Mary Rodwell has a whole
chapter on what these children are.
Yeah.
Read that last, the star seeds in my book.
Chapter must be chapter.
Last chapter.
I think.
Ten, I think.
Yeah.
And she's great too.
Mary, you'll love Mary.
Do you know Mary's at Darren?
I don't.
She's fantastic.
She's a very intelligent English woman with a great sense of humor.
She came to Fire Island with me once, you know, to Henrietta.
Oh, no, I didn't.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Because she was visiting New York and she had no place to stay.
So I brought her out to Fire Island.
So this.
Carry on.
Yeah.
This leads to.
And again, I have so many questions.
I know we're not going to get to even half of them, but.
That's okay.
It leads in a direction, though, that I want to ask you about.
I'm trying to think clearly how to frame it.
And I have some of my own perspectives on it, some of which have just undergone a radical
shift as of yesterday.
But because these are things that I chase all the time, like I'm very curious about these
matters.
So let me try to introduce the question.
Have in your mind, Alan, what do you suppose is the actual historical relationship between
our species and other intelligences?
Well, I do think we were upgraded over many, many phases of development.
We're not like any other species on this planet.
We did not evolve from the earth apes.
So we were, we're hybrids.
We really are hybrids.
And I think we're coming into another phase of hybridization.
I think the, the Anunnaki were part of that, but even 7 million years ago, we separated from
the evolving primates.
I mean, there's evidence of the, also in my book, I think it's actually is in Mary Rodwell's
chapter.
We have a gene that seems unlike any other gene that just came out of nowhere.
You know, so we're hybrids and we're, we're also, um, you know, we do that to plants all
the time.
We create hybrid species.
You know, the grapefruit is a hybrid species, you know, there's, um, there's lots of hybrid
species and we're one of them.
So, um, uh, yeah, we are being watched.
I mean, this is something Charles Fort, one of the original people, do you know Charles Fort's
work?
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
I mean, I, I, I, 14 times, yes.
Yeah.
He was the original kind of conspiracy guy.
Yes.
So, you know, he says we're cattle being rule.
I don't think that's true, but, um, we're definitely being manipulated or controlled for
maybe though it's a good reason or maybe it's not a good reason.
i i think i tend to be that glass is half full so okay so there's some related questions first of
all the idea that we're cattle doesn't make a lot of sense because we wouldn't need
mines to be cattle we wouldn't need technology to be cattle none of that we would need minds
if we're feeding the arconic matrix if you know yeah there you go that's true so the arconic
matrix wants us to think just enough to create the dramas to engage their you know energy bodies to
feed us feed off of our emotional you know dramas and and is that something you take seriously
i do think there's an element i think we could break out of that i think there's a lot of people
stuck in emotional drama because they are being feeding the arconic mind matrix yes
but you're if you're aware of it then you can get free of it so and is it the awareness that frees you
um what what frees you is not indulging in the drama i mean emotionality as opposed to feelings
we're here to feel but you know angry people there they have this chemical it's like an addiction
and they're addicted to the chemicals of anger and they don't even know it and when they stop being
angry the body says oh we need that chemical but those emotions themselves feed the arconic mind
matrix because they live off our what robert monroe called loose which is any sort of intense emotion
they create wars i mean is there really a reason to go and invade another country i mean no i mean
on moss are insane and and have long apparently been nuts in this way right israelis and palestinians
you put them side by side you cannot tell the difference yeah it's it's and this is what robert
lawless said to me henrietta he says who kills other people over words in a book you know it's such
nonsense like would you you know but it's a holy book so then it's okay because those people aren't
holy and when you demonize people it's okay you know to to to do them in because you know i'm smiling
not because it's funny but because it leads to further important questions like um
what were their intimate relationships perhaps symbiotic relationships between
our species and beings that that are not necessarily corporeal or are partially corporate
well it is symbiotic for some people yeah you know why because without their emotionality they don't
know who they are they think they are their dramas so that gives them a purpose and that's symbiotic the
the the archons give them a purpose they fulfill that purpose they feed that purpose there's a
great book out you should you might really enjoy it by isabella green called the reincarnation trap
and i interviewed her recently i'll send you a link to that interview and she says the whole purpose
of reincarnation is to feed those beings because this is a lush farm
and um i don't know if i totally agree with that i think there's evolutionary reasons for incarnation but
but she's like very extreme like always can i just ask quickly about these narratives like where do they
come from like i don't understand where they are constantly from oh no no how would why would that
narrative like it seems that seems pretty far out like just like you could kind of make up anything
like it's maybe it's a simple points to something but i don't understand but henrietta people make up
everything all that they make up religion they make up ideas of karma and astrology or i know but people
make it up all the time i know but wouldn't one want to be careful about making stuff about this
when we really well it's not because this is what they believe just like people believe their religion
this is what they believe to be true so you know i'm not saying it's good or bad but we're all making
it up we're making up the whole story about ufos et's there's no proof but there's no not proof but
you know we're making up a narrative because there's something there obviously there's something
out there no i yeah i mean the curiosity like the questions that darren's asking and you're answering
are really interesting but when it goes into kind of the arconic thing is stealing from that it's like
how on earth would one deduce something like that well did you read paul levy's book the um
um watiko no oh i'm going to send you my interview of the of the archons i mean it does sound like
something made up because it's so it's so hard to believe that there are and i don't know if it's
true even but it makes sense because you know i saw my mother when i was younger turn into not like a
demon but she was taken over she was taken over by something that just went into this insane rage
and she's actually she's actually suffering from something like that now but you know that was no
longer my mother as i knew her it was something else and maybe of course it's a it's a psychological
issue but it could be an energetic issue as well so look there's a there's a broad array from from
far back in history i know i keep making this gesture but it's a it's useful to think about things in in
kind of a three dimension like a sphere or a pie chart or whatever there's a broad array of sort of
prison planet narratives right where beluche or vampires right something non-human is feeding
on the humans yes he is trapped in this cycle so one example which is a little bit um eccentric or
esoteric is an example of a text that was supposedly dictated by a nurse who was involved in the roswell
crash and the alien who was called i believe aisle a-i-s-l or something like this who was apparently
female would only talk to the nurse and there's this long document that basically says something
like there were two factions the dominion and uh the old empire and the old empire has this technology
on mars that causes us to forget our previous incarnations when we die and traps us here and
they feed on that energy and the dominion tried that were supposedly the good people tried to eliminate
this now this is like a broad science fiction story with shades of scientology and zechariah sitchin right
nonetheless it it infigures something that is both terrifying plausible like why do we forget our
previous incarnations what happens to someone when they experience what we refer to as enlightenment
and those quote unquote and it's important to have those quotes there previous incarnations flood back
into their awareness as it is said happened to the buddha and so forth right and i know people who have
recovered again i remember my some of my past lives so i don't personally think it's a prison planet
i don't that's i do think i can understand why people have that views and i think it's a fantastic place
to be it's one of my favorite planets i adore this world yeah me too yeah but that's just one way of
understanding um the many different perspectives so it's natural for the humans to narratize the shadow
let's put it that way that might be part of an answer to your to your question henrietta yes no totally
totally i mean i'm fascinated it's just kind of deviates so um ellen you were saying something
about the difference between narratives and i don't know what you what what the opposite of a narrative
is non-narrative okay so what to you is most reliable if there's something we can count upon
in your mind what what is how could you could you point us in that direction no narratives are a
natural function of order and we're always trying to make sense of reality just like you don't just
don't believe your narrative you know don't i mean it's it's it's it's like uh it's a um scaffolding for
knowing so it's about knowing it's about gnosis right it's not about believing believing is the
lowest level of of conjecture believing means nothing i call it make believe you want to believe
something make yourself believe it there's no it doesn't count for anything oh i'll make believe that
i'll make believe this because it's all make believe but knowing this where the gnostics like do you
believe you're sitting in that room or do you know you're sitting in that room you can make the
narrative oh i think i'm sitting here but but the truth is not gnosis trumps all sorry to use that
expression but it does um yes so when you say gnosis uh i mean when i think of gnosis i think of
something like living insight which i have experience of occasionally right i don't necessarily believe it
it's a it's ways of seeing in consciousness awareness and relation right these three things consciousness
awareness and relation really to me is is up near the top of the well i don't know relation is
fundamentally important because i trust intimacy i don't necessarily mean that romantically or sexually
i trust relational intimacy and i trust insight knowledge is kind of the dead remains of something
most of the time it seems to me i like that quote knowledge is the dead remains of something that's
good yeah one day uh when when we were actually shortly after we were all speaking this magnificent
insect flew into my father's backyard and it was it was shining turquoise and it was alive and i was like
oh my god what is it what is it it was flying around for like a few minutes and i followed it
and it was some kind of a large turquoise beetle like a scarab right and it was alive and i was
fascinated and in love and i just i was hoping it would land i wanted to see it up close and and
eventually it hung out for quite some time and i was i was conversing with someone else while i was
there someone in portugal who became very important in my life a few days later i was walking down the
street and i found the carcass of one and i realized immediately that's what knowledge is now i can hold
the dead thing in my hand and i know what was flying before was alive before you know that's a good
analogy yeah i like you know young i mean it's a separate thing but young has a great story of a
scarab flying into his office yes yes yes at that moment yeah yes yes but um yeah knowledge it's it's
not dead in the sense because it had nourished us for the moment and then digesting it it's then but
the nourishment of the knowledge is something in that moment and then it's dead then it's gone if you
think okay now this this leads me to a question that's dear to my own heart because i'm extremely
concerned about uh the our species the group the group humans which i i see is very different from
individuals or small groups i'm very concerned about the group humans relationship with technique
with technology say whatever you you feel about this well what when you say technology what are you
talking about we're doing it right now so what what what technology are you saying ai i mean what do
you mean technology started with fire you know and i would argue language is a technology it's just yeah
of course so technology is here as marshall mcclellan says to be an extension of our senses so
it's not technology it's what thomas jefferson said the price of liberty is constant vigilance
so are you going to burn your house down with fire you're going to heat your food and warm your body
it's like it's always a double-edged sword yes now again oh i wasn't necessarily saying technology is a
bad thing i'm saying i'm terrified of technology in the hands of a dissociated cluster of human of
captured humans that are war making and commerce making and stuff like that but the last thing i
would want in the universe is for the united states military to get a hold of free energy or even for
the humans to get a hold of free energy that would be the end of life on earth in short order it seems
to me well that's why it's not happening yeah i think the intelligence the phenomena is smart enough to
know we're still very primitive at the level we're idiotic i mean we're just on the side of maniacs
i mean as long as there's this is what childhood zen was about by arthur c clark did you read that book
oh yeah i read that when i was i read that when i was seven well read it again it's still i mean it's
a little dated but it's also pretty amazing did you read that henrietta childhood yeah what's just
briefly about et's coming to the planet and saying you know this is when there was an apartheid in
south africa you have to change everything if you want or help you know i mean i read it a while ago
too but it's a great book arthur c clark was quite an amazing collective of humans worth contacting
there's no collective of humans where there's no okay there's no powerful group of humans that i would
trust with silverware and i mean i'm being very emphatic but literally like our collective seem
to me to be utterly misguided captured by some weird death process and insane i mean wetico is one
way well are you talking about everyone who you talking no no i'm talking about okay if we look at
layers from like the individual to the family to small groups to large groups and then really big
groups when we make groups mostly it's a problem right when humans make groups it's mostly a problem
especially beyond a certain number of people it just seems that that's what kept the aboriginals
going for 60 000 years they did never develop government and large groups they live in small clans
and you know what the secret to that was do you tell i think i may have said before this is something
robert lawler was really big on talking about because he wrote the book called voices of the first day
which is about the aboriginal people and their spiritual tradition voices of the first day and
that's a great um he said they never developed agriculture so they never created a hierarchy
where there had to be people in place and stationary and people ruling over people and people
settled yeah they never settled yes exactly continued to traverse and sort of but they developed an
incredible spiritual culture where women would give birth to spiritual beings but their technology
was the earth itself if you want to call it that they also telepathically yes exactly they did a lot of
telepathic communication rather than vocal you know they were pretty content i would imagine until the white
man came along and um do you think that's possible that that what you're talking about with these the ufo
phenomenon or all these you know things that we can't sort of understand or categorize or identify do you
think it's possible that we could maybe explore it more telepathically or something like that well
that's exactly what they want doing a lot of talking but it's like maybe it's a different way of
understanding that's exactly what they want us to do we we are very in my opinion this is kind of the
bottom line here darren uh we're trapped in a matrix maybe it was created maybe our minds have been shut
down the capacity of our brain we are all telepathic we all can all remote view and we've been dumbed down
right we've been dumbed down from our religions our media our political parties our families
everything has kept us in a very small box and when i teach remote viewing it's like wow we can really
do this we i mean i just did a course today and this woman said i was showing this picture and she said
well it's cold it's like a mountain it's blue and white isn't an iceberg and it was an iceberg she
got a bullseye on that target so um you know yes how does that happen there's no way to explain how
remote viewing actually happens oh i mean i think there are ways to explain how do you would you
explain it well it's very complicated the first thing is we think consciousness is in separate
people we think our mind is separate if it's not separate you know i think you may know my friend
marla freeze i don't know if yes i've heard it for a long time i've heard about it i've spoken to her
a few times and actually it was very interesting what she said about her ufo experience yes yes she
her she became a psychic through a ufo experience i don't want to i don't want to speak for her but
we were happy i'd like to hear about that actually what happened to her she's interesting it's been
quite a while since i've heard her story probably more than 15 years so it's not fresh enough in my memory
for me to reiterate it i just want to say something brief um i remember uh once when
the non-human intelligence was actually with me and i was talking to a young man in canada and he
was very interested in using psychedelic drugs and i was trying to convince him not to and i explained
to him that our minds are actually a network the idea that we're separate it's not untrue but it's not
the most important thing about what's going on and if you can touch the network you can be in other
minds you can share in other minds and he was like well prove it and i said right now and he was like
yeah and i said okay and so i just went to the place in myself where i used to be able to sense
very clearly when the other mind was with mine much more clearly than now and i said um well i don't
understand why this is so but uh your your room is orange and it's not painted orange and you don't
have orange furniture and there's like a place like an arrow pattern on the floor and he started
swearing and yelling like oh my god you know he's like how could you possibly do like i just spilled
orange juice all over my rug and it's an arrow pattern and and you know that's just a personal
experience of my own that i've actually had right but what was the upsetting but i don't get it i missed
something because he couldn't believe it was possible yeah yeah yeah it didn't make any sense to him
he couldn't believe what was passed so i missed that part see what was going on in his room oh
yeah right right because he was he was very similarly when i talked to marla when you know
she asked permission first because she said something about my house and i said you don't
know anything about my house and she said well let me see and she led me from my front steps told me
how many steps there were led me through every room in my house right one clockwise told me what was in
each room who was in each room told me what i could see out the back window and basically she made like
17 consecutive statements with no questions and every single one of them was correct yeah so i'm all right
we can prove that's true yeah i mean and one of the explanations is that consciousness isn't trapped in our
bodies exactly exactly it's not it never was i agree i totally agree that's why it works we're not local
now people like tom campbell or robert monroe might have a different explanation right campbell thinks i
guess that the universe is a simulation i don't get along with tom campbell i think he's very limited i
we talked to him a bunch of times right henrietta but i mean once at least but it doesn't make sense
to me what robert what tom campbell is saying okay so let's leave tom out of it is is it even
possible that the universe is a simulation in your view well we're in a similar but who's created the
simulation i mean yeah that's only that what is it a simulation of because there's no that's a very
bizarre terminology a simulation a simulation has to be a simulation of something yeah so what's the
of i don't know it's just asking that question it's just another delusion it doesn't mean anything
okay it's a simulation so what doesn't change anything yeah and what you're saying is that
doesn't help us see better exactly that idea doesn't help doesn't give us what does it it doesn't do
anything right yeah i mean so what okay it's maya it's a simulation but here you are so let's do
something i mean right right yes let's let's be and so why ellen why do you think why why have you
lived the life that you're living what is your mission in life this this lifetime well knowledge
knowledge you know for one i mean for me i because i'm an aquarius for whatever label you want to give
me i enjoy learning about things understanding things that is why the ufo issue is the most fascinating
thing on the planet because it's not comprehensible but it can be and that's what my how do we make the
incomprehensible comprehensible how do we make the unknown known how do we go how do we you know
cognize a new reality basically that's my excitement and um you know i can't think of anything that um
would be more stimulating and maybe there are but for now that's kind of a fun thing to um
um to deal with right right it leads us up out of human categories um knowledge supposition and even
theory possibly toward the origin of those possibilities right it's almost as if it's the point
beyond what can be okay yes of course we can spy we can sort of circle it and improve our con our
conception and our perspectives but we're not going to find out we're not going to get to the top of
the cone it's it's like a direction rather than a destination does it make any sense what i'm saying
yeah of course i mean there is no ultimate destination that's why
and so what are the imperatives for the humans as as that as as we are related to this phenomenon in your
view in this time well the imperative is to change the way you look at yourself your mind your reality
um make peace with yourself the planet each other um you know that's the imperative you know stop war
i mean it's what everyone's saying but we're not doing it you know we're all connected i mean what bruce
lipton says in my book we're not going to meet the other ones until we realize we're all part of one
of one single consciousness ourself what will it take to wake the the groups of humans up what would
it take to get them to change their their um motivations and priorities do you think um
um i think getting rid of i mean i think it's john lennon you know imagine all the people living for
today it's getting rid of your history your family your religion your country you know living for today
imagine presence in the in the present moment together for each other yeah and yourself and what's that
henrietta that doesn't make sense to me that you get rid of your history and your family like well you
don't get attached to it you just don't say you know i'm an american i'm a this i'm a that and then
you're different because i'm this and you're that it's not like you um disregard but you don't place an
importance on the things you label yourself as jewish christian muslim it's like public imagine
henrietta rather than the first thing that alan was saying imagine something like the end of
other rising the end of the others yeah the end of us and them ism right well yeah totally
yeah so to so to break down the barriers in category that normally stand between us
you know one of my friends was saying one of the biggest problems in history that often leads to
fascism is nothing more than the transfer of wealth between generations right the transfer of property
and wealth and the defense of the endless defense of the transfer of wealth and property and power
between the generations from the rich though to those in power only those in power though right exactly
i mean yeah there's so many problems historically who said who said that darren my friend the neuroscientist
dr beru he doesn't he doesn't like me to talk about his thoughts anyway so he's saying that's the purpose
of what he's saying that's one of the the problems that often leads to fascism right is the the prioritization
of the transfer of wealth between generations now i want to i want to get to one other question is it
yeah you know one of the so look i was shown many things during my experience and one of them was
that there are beings there's a sort of syllogism here right which is um i'll just state it clearly as
bees are to flowers and honey x is to living worlds and y so imagine that worlds are like flowers
there's something that go that links all the worlds together and and they make this honey which could be
what evolutionary potential or transcendence uh the capacity for telepathy and high intelligence and
stuff they make this honey from linking the worlds together in a way not dissimilar to how the bees do
might it not be that there are beings to whom we are flowers right they are like the bees and we are
like the flowers and there's this really deep enmeshed symbiosis between us has anyone ever spoken of
anything like this to you to me wait so so state that simply in a sense what do you say imagine that we
are deeply symbiotic with for example beings that are non-corporeal but maybe they dwell in the substrate
from which time space emerges and that we're intimately linked with them in a way as dramatic as the
linkage between bees and flowers but but you know darren we are them yes this is what i'm trying to say
it's the same we're the it's one it's one we are them this is the illusion or the simulation or the
maya we are that this is all a lila i mean this is all a game the dramas the the wants the desires all
that is just soul experiencing and maybe it feeds the matrix or not but it's an evolution and um you can
enjoy it or not you could be miserable like my mother or you can enjoy it yeah and this is how
it seems to me because i feel the same way about the other organisms here on earth right the whales
and the dolphins and the bees and the flowers and the trees and all these things i of course i understand
i'm a human they're a different species yes i get the separation thing but the unity thing prevails over
that in my experience and in my thought in my heart right i adore the other beings here all the other
beings and they all seem to be intelligent to me you know scientists are like it looks like corbids
could solve problems that humans set up for them i'm like okay good for science amazing you guys
figured out something that's been obvious to humans for 400 000 years congratulations um
um like all of the beings here are intelligent they're they're their intelligence is embodied
rather representational that's nature and the ufo whatever that is is a higher unseen form of that
intelligence it's not separate from that yeah it's the implicate order and it's here and coming into our
purview at this moment because we have to wake up i saying have to um because something i mean it seems
more urgent for whatever reason is that risk yeah there's a risk there's a near-term risk i guess i
mean or maybe we're imposing that that might not even be true but it seems like energetically
there is something accelerating our movement towards what did um what did terence michaela call terence
kind of called it the um eschatology at the end of time yeah the great and he was so right even though
no one knew what he was saying but yes there's an eschaton and maybe he's already there i don't know
you know but it's the world is subjective and objective like you're there you and henrietta are
there on my computer my computer screen but i'm also on your computer screen but you're subjectively on
my computer screen in my room and you're in my subjective world but you also have your computer
screen you're in your subjective world and we're meeting in the vesica pisces to overlap and create
another immaterial world these are the material worlds but the worlds that we're actually
forming is the mind field that can't be put on a computer screen
right so there's three images on your screen alan three images on my screen three images on henrietta's
screen and there's the cloud recording that's taking place inside a machine um but all that is just the surface
of the actual um mine field i'll just call it that cannot be recorded but it can be perceived in the
recording of it i mean it it's we're creating something that's not on the video screen yes and it's not in the
word i mean sort of in the words but it's not it's not tangible and this is everything you're asking all of
us you're talking you're talking about defiant tangible grasping the intangibility that can't be grass
yes of course we naturally uh like to play with these verbal ghosts in the intellect and in conversation
well i love that too because you know that's why we're here to play this is what one of the
things ken wilbur said he said i love intellectual entertainment there's nothing wrong with like
going deep into a philosophical problem because it's so engaging and interesting and meaningless i i'm
putting that word he doesn't say meaningless i say and meaningful is another way you could put it i think
i never read this book but people keep referring to man's search for meaning by victor frankel oh right
yeah i just read it you did what can you give us a little synopsis well i mean he was a um holocaust
survivor so he um and he was a psychologist already so this kind of changed his many of his perspectives
on how humans behave what is the search for meaning what does that mean the search for meaning is
something that's a natural impulse in every human right it's a bit like it's very captivated by what
darren was saying about the living world as a blossoming flower but i mean you might wonder like
isn't there something that wants us all to do something yeah i think so if there's a creator
or whatever you know i mean you could talk about in any way but he's he kind of um
um comes to see that there you know there must be i mean what's what what is the impulse to survive
even in the most dire circumstances like that like a concentration camp yeah yeah i mean it's just one
example but that was a pretty extreme example of you know well it's the most extreme example and
unexpectedly and you know unimaginably so anyway he's very intelligent yeah but no that's i mean he
was maybe in uh a concentrated holocaust but is it any different with any of us well that's the whole
point is that no you know they'll always be the kind of replica of what he you know that experience in
one's own or can be in one's own life the sort of the you know the prison concept that you talk about
the prison planet you know everybody can be entrapped or we're free what's a liberation yeah
i mean it's interesting you know in science fiction and in fantasy we are given visions of what we could
do together what is possible for humans if we were not so if we were not subject to the um inhibitions
and amputations of language and enculturation and commodity culture and war and all these things
and when we get together in even a small group oh yeah i just want to mention that one other thing
about the small group thing even before i thought much about any of these topics it became clear to
me as i was learning uh how to work with other humans how to have a job and whatever right that
when i worked in very small companies the integration and coherence was high and as i got to working in
larger companies integration coherence was terrible right between the people so it became immediately
obvious to me that humans work really well in small tightly knit groups and it seems to me that one
of the frontiers of our humanity is the establishment of something resembling intelligent human culture
and that probably small tightly knit groups are the seedbed where that's likely to arise and succeed
and perhaps become contagious what are your thoughts about that alan what can we do is there something we
can actually do do about reframe that do about to escape the traps that we presently face as a species
and perhaps to prepare for the possibility of contact with other we might imagine altruistic intelligences
what can we actually do what should we do together is there anything in your mind that you can see is
there a path that you can see or recommend yeah be present you don't live in the past or the future
no one's going to save us from ourselves we have to do that and there's nothing i mean i think that we have
to actually do that i don't think being present is enough i think you have to do good things for
other people i think you have to do that's a good point for me crushing us are so active they're very
active pardon me for being blunt but yeah the forces that are crushing humanity and eating up the world
very yeah i don't think nobody i just i just answered kind of i just said what can each of us do i i agree
with you henrietta thank you for saying that um no i just wanted to look at a bit well i'm doing what
i'm compelled to do is find well what's going on i mean i can only and that's exciting when i'm not
distracted by nonsense but actually it makes me think that the two of you you know you're both
really good at like thinking and analyzing which is really important and then there are other people
who would you know i i don't know and then they're yeah i'm not so good at that but i know that i like
to help people in the immediate present who are immediately around me you know that i mean there's a
sort of you know that you know what i'm saying it's like i do too yeah i'm i mean just sort of
like literally whether it's here in this town or where you know that that that kind of networking
that you're talking about in small groups where you're not separated from the other like that what
you're talking about presence in action is um is important to me and these conversations are helpful
in many ways but ultimately it's going to be about who you are as a human in all your dealings
with every single personal being i'm addicted to altruism yeah yeah like yeah i'm i'm a weird you
know i want to yes okay i'm no it's not weird it's natural marshall yeah marshall rosenberg we think
people need to receive love but there's a human truth people need to give love so that's why you
ask someone for directions and where they're always happy because it makes them feel good about
themselves and helping other people is a natural state a natural do you think the ufo oh sorry yeah go
ahead yeah i don't know say it but say what you're saying please do you think the ufo phenomenon it's
it just seems to me that there's something to do with this with that with um well i was thinking
about this like an invitation a conversation there's something you know no no i think it's a part of this
mind that we're all part of you know that they yeah you know i was doing like no saying a directional
pull well i'll tell you something that i was discovering i was going to say thank you for
reminding about this i was going to say this at contact in the desert i was in front of 500 people
and i got on to other things but i had this realization because this friend of mine wanted me to
go to go to this buddhist little round tables to talk to her teacher and and maybe i told you this
and all these people in this buddhist group were just talking about their enlightenment their process
their consciousness and when i got to contact in the desert people weren't talking about their
enlightened they were talking about what can we do for each other to wake each other it was such a
higher energy in my opinion it wasn't about my awakening this me me me which is very maybe it's
not buddhism but but it was very new age for what and the ufo thing is like okay let's think about this
collectively let's put i don't know if that's what you were asking but it was such so much more
altruistic addressing the phenomena it doesn't concern us directly and yet it does concern us
directly so it's it there's you you're so right henrietta thank you for bringing that up that is such
a good point so it just seems to kind of like wait it could you even say that like in my experience of
the tiny things that i've seen and spoken to many people in different countries who've had these
experiences it seems to be like almost like that spell breaker you know something happens where you
just you just can't frame things in the way that you have and marla freese told me that i hope i can
say this because it's i haven't asked her but she's quite open but maybe anyway i've just said her name
now i should have said somebody well i'll just say something very simple then and not elaborate but
when she did a sort of little a small group experimentation at a certain place with
ufos she experimented with conversations with them and that happened kind of like you know flashing
movements and she so it was like she said it was a whole different way of conversing but it was
beautiful extraordinary i mean i'll just say that but that that's interesting to me
i don't think i would be concerned about you speaking openly unless she was i mean i know
her fairly well even though we haven't spoken i think i mean that's all i'd say you know because
i haven't really said where she is or who she was where she was or who she was with but i just kind
of loved that idea of like they weren't just well she wasn't just analyzing and it she actually just
was like conversing okay there's a topic in the background here that i want to bring to the
foreground oh yeah yes that the phenomena acts as an attractor and it's out of i'm an individual darren
and i'm the important thing yes totally we are beings together we are a planet together we have
remember the imperatives that we brought to our human birth as children and that were sort of
crammed down by our culture our language that's why i was really interested in how children relate
to that right that's why i love that question no i was right and you know that i don't i don't know
if anyone's explored well you said mary rodwell but i'd love to personally kind of speak to more children
because you know dreams and in those kind of liminal states and then because i know i've had some
strange dreams that took me back to kind of my childhood bedroom where there was this like weird
clunky ufo flashing red and blue lights outside but it was kind of like wait is that a memory or it just
it was it's interesting so i think i think we've gotten to a really important point and that was great
that you brought that in darren because maybe that's another aspect of what the phenomena is pushing us
towards and out an intellectual altruism if you want to call it that or spiritual or
henrietta what did you say well certainly more this kind of collective like it
you know where you're not um i mean for want of a better expression you're not so
you know self-focused narcissistic exactly like this or the like how do we move as darren says in in
small groups in pods and how do we sort of consider you know like darren's the head and alan's the heart
and i'm the hands you know like when you start thinking about yourself as not a separate set like
that would get truly interesting there's another direction to this gravity which is the unforgetting
right the anamnesis this was a greek word that they used
the unforgetting and and so that liberation from all of the uh the kind of um inhibitive
uh sclerotic structure that we've acquired by the time most of us enter adulthood and some of us you
know work to slot that off and in various ways meditation or um through altruistic action or through
art or through dreaming or through you know intellectual activity but there's this draw there's it's like a
magnet outside of time that's drawing us together back to something we can actually trust it seems to me
and i don't trust the military or the government to maybe it's the creation of the whole thing
yeah that's the wrong gatekeeper entirely the the motivations of the government or the military or the
corporations are malignant best well no that i mean who could possibly you know what you know we need
to talk to a lot more women about this too because women sense like in their body like i could tell you
right off like are you kidding like don't even trust i mean you've got to sort of also it's sort of much
more about or is it a parallel thing of like sensing as much as thinking you've got to do the do it's
got to be everything engaged but um i was just really interested with it because the way marla
talked about this conversation and she was so joyous it was like that really lit something up in my mind
what was she joyous about which part of having a conversation like experimenting with going like
hello you know hello which i think is very i'm sure she was hello and then they're like hello it's like
that's contact yeah i don't know yeah yeah i'm sure they were at the monroe institute when that was
happening i'm almost yes she told me yeah i i know she wouldn't be upset about us discussing this okay good
i know her name i should have said a friend they were at the monroe institute when she was doing
that because she mentioned that to me as well and um and what was she doing she was exactly doing what
they were using they were establishing a group mind and then directing it to make contact you know
there's of course you have like the ce5 stuff what clear is doing i mean i don't trust fear very much
he's an interesting cat no i don't trust him either no i don't trust i trust what marla was was talking
about because yes well what exactly was she talking about setting the intention connecting the minds in
the group and just sending a signal and waiting for a response and getting a response which is actually
what the crop circulars do as well which is really interesting i think it connects to the crop circle
phenomenon because by the way this is i was just looking at the latest oh um sorry the latest like
look at that pattern that's just arrived in england oh where's that one that is interesting alan
where is that when did that arrive no i just arrived two days ago in wow not far away and then this was the
one prior oh will you go there and visit it for us yes but i i this particular one there like that is
interesting too i haven't seen anything like that like they keep throwing new yeah that is very
that one is a very unusual one that is very strange isn't it strange now i want to ask you about
this alan you know that valet has has suggested that um some of these are the united states using satellite
energy devices to produce them what are your thoughts about that well i've been there the ones i've seen
like the 888 that was real i don't think they're doing that i don't i mean valet is great on so many things
and he's also off on a lot of things too so yeah he's a fascinating character uh we're gonna say
henrietta yeah go say it if there's been this might be really simplistic i don't know but there was there
was one day when i was looking at a lot of the different crop circles and i suddenly like they
opened up into not two dimensional or three dimension but like four they suddenly like had all these
dimensions where you could go into them they like tunneled down yes that is that was someone did an
animation of that actually that's so important henrietta i can't even explain how important that
is the humans they're like different they were different it was yes they're not it was like points
of access they were literally like i mean i got portals and they had like all these dimensions and
movement yeah and i'm so glad you said that because we sit here on our computers looking
excuse me at flat pictures of things and thinking that's what it is or we know what it is or we even
think it's a crop circle right we think oh i know what that is it's this oh yeah um wait oh yeah oh go
ahead go keep talking please oh um so you know they're near my house uh up the hill there are some
very ancient stones they're huge right they're gigantic stones and they're on the top of the
mountain and they've been there for a million years or whatever right and there's a stone table
at the bottom of them there's a table that you can light it was probably used for sacrifices who knows
what it was used for yes it's a stone table and it's naturally flat and it's at the base of these
stones and when i lay on this on that stone and i talk to the rocks right i just said you know i'm here
i'm listening they showed me this whole other universe inside the stone they're like there's an
labyrinth in here that leads to anywhere you want to go yes i wasn't high i wasn't you know having
fantastical problems i was laying on the stone and talking to the rock just asking it questions you
know telling it i'm here i'm listening i honor your presence and they were like there's a whole
labyrinth in here of emerald doorways that lead to anywhere you want to go in the universe right and
these are just rock you know people would just walk by and like oh yeah that was raw it's interesting
there's some rocks there right so what i want to say is the way you're thinking darren and allen is
is that i mean what i think what i've always felt since i was a child is that should be the norm like
this is what you should be doing the other stuff is literally a waste of time
you know why aren't we lying on rocks and doing exactly that like then we'd be getting somewhere
so i think the ufo thing is kind of that you know like you can't ignore that like let's stop playing
dangerous games and pointless games when we could be doing what we're actually here to do which is the
some i mean i'm not sure what that is but i don't want to say what i think well
oh no do you say what you think please don't yes i'm not sure i only have i don't you don't have to
be sure say what you well no what you said about this living the living planet that's okay well i
personally sense that there is a creator of this and that there's a reason so beyond
i i feel like there's some kind of the relationship between the creator and us that's what's coming
together that that's what i think um so i think everything is sort of going towards that um i think
that's the purpose i don't i can't really elaborate but we came from that um henrietta yes no exactly so
it's sort of uh i mean we will become something else probably right we were something else i just
i don't really know i don't want to say much more than that because i can't put it into words i just
have a sense i have to say it sounds a little bit influenced by your judaism a little bit that point
of view i'm not saying it's wrong or right but it sounds it's what i've always felt but i've just
found a a way of kind of perhaps um helping me understand i i do have to go soon but i think we
did get somewhere in this conversation we haven't gotten to before yes well i think we should invite
marla into the conversation yes absolutely i'd love to hear more about like what i'm really fascinated
about what people are sensing and thinking about what's going on with these phenomena yes i would
love to have marla here and i'm sure that if she knew that you were here alan she'd probably be
interested i never met her i don't know her oh okay you would definitely be you know i'm sure she
knows who you are yes i mean i have a million more questions too so i hope we can do this again sometime
soon and i'm just really grateful for this time yeah yeah no this is good i can't go on too long
because i'm here and have to yeah i understand yeah but henrietta it's so great when you speak up and talk
because you have a great mind for a unique perspective and also your heart
it's your spirit you know your your passion your the beauty of your heart it speaks in your
in your concerns and i i love that well i'm interested and you know i love hearing you both
like really think about it in very deep and analytical ways i'm i guess i am trying to
sort of sense it more than think about it but then of course it's quite hard for me to talk about it
you know but i think you're right it's the sensing beyond knowing it's not about speaking yeah it's
kind of like just what we were saying when darren was talking about the rock it's like when you or
when either of you speak of a specific moment that you've had i'm like that's it like i don't want to
talk about the you know the systems like we know that they're kind of pointless good stuff i love that
about about what you're saying henrietta it's so that's the crap if you brought the children in
and you brought the women in they would both say what you're saying right there but no that i do
i mean i because i don't want to be like i don't want to leave the men out but i that i kind of want
to hear from the children yes well that's exactly right we forgot that we but it's not all of us
together but we forgot we forgot that we are that from the pure yeah tainted ones and then you know
women who just generally speak you know just by nature you know you're just i don't know connected
or something i mean there certainly is a concern about about something that is uh more or less
delusional you know we we sometimes denigrate it with the term woo but there's a difference between woo
and our hearts right no totally i agree i agree and actually david mccalf would be good to talk yeah
david he's actually in dialogue with diana baselka pretty much it would be great to get it would be
great to have a conversation yeah let's bring david and marla into this yeah it would be a great that
would be this i mean to just expand i'm curious what david and diana are thinking about because
she's a little conservative in her i mean i like her book but she still calls herself a christian
and because she had some christ mystical christian experience she didn't want to talk about but
she the ufo thing is pulling her out of her dogma this is what i think it's doing is my opinion they're
doing that's what's happening to diana baselka but she's like trying to fit it into these strange boxes
and i say you can't fit it into your religious box it's not a religion and she's saying the ufo
thing is the new american religion but it's not a religion at all it's it's a mystery
but when you bring the idea of religion i'm sure she's a teacher of religion but it's not religion
it's not about belief it's like you know i told you my favorite quote from bud hopkins when someone
came up to him and said oh you know all this ufo abduction stuff it sounds like a cult to me
and bud says to this woman this is the exact opposite of a cult a cult is all belief and no
miracles this is all miracles and no belief i love that that's amazing yeah isn't that great he was
quite a smart guy all right i'm gonna but it's true anyway because so when you talk to people who've
experienced it like so many different people like i've met in mexico like really conservative like
you know catholic lawyers accounting you know and then they suddenly like tell you you know like it's
a dirty secret you know yes it's a ufo and i can't it is a dirty secret for a lot of people that's the
thing and then you know and my friend's father he was a judge you know and she saw the ufo with her
father and yes she was a child and she just it's remained with her forever but her father kind of
was like broke out of his thing for you know his way of being if you like for about a week
and then it just was too hard to retain the cognitive dissonance and he just kind of
never spoke about conversation let's go live on my youtube channel and get this
a little out there in a public discussion yeah and with maybe with david and marlon yes yes tell
them tell them so let's know we found our way through a little bit okay let's meet like find
out what they are up to and we can meet soon i gotta go okay have a wonderful time stay with me for a
minute i will okay great so good to see you alan
