Hello. Hello, Maria. Hi, hi there. The last. So lovely to meet
you. I've been listening to your voice for many hours and I must say I'm actually a little
bit overwhelmed. Why? Because it's very rare in my life to encounter someone whose wisdom
is so alive and profound. Wow, I appreciate that. This, you know, it's an honor for me.
Thank you very much for the comments. It is true that I have been delving into this matter
for many years, actually. And it's really exciting to find out what the Greek language hides
and conveys. And this is the amazing thing that this is a cosmic code inside the words. And
from the lessons that I, you know, I give lessons on philosophy and I have a lot of attendants,
like a lot of participants about 70 every time from all over the world, from all over the
continents. And there are Greeks spread, you know, everywhere. And it's amazing how the
new technology gives you this possibility to, to be in touch with other people that are really thirsty
for knowledge, you know, and it's touching.
It is as if you are, in some sense, a kind of a midwife or a doula, you know, you, you are,
um, in a sense, you are resurrecting the memory of those with whom those who study with you.
Yeah, exactly. It's something that really wakes something inside you, wakes up something inside
you. Yes. And this is exactly how the philosophy works, that Proclos, Proclos is a very important,
like dean of the Platonic Academy, 450 AD after Christ, about 800 years after Plato. And his comments
makes us understand the depths of the Socratic logos, you know. And he says that the first thing you should
do is listen from somebody else about this wisdom. And this is what he calls um, a learning that is
motivated by an external factor. This is what it means this, the words in Greek he uses. And after that,
there is another motivation from inside you. And there is the learning that is activated by an internal
factor, which is your connection with the divine. And this comes like a flash, you know, unexpectedly.
It's amazing. And I have experienced this. I mean, to be clear about what I say, is that when I wrote my
odyssey, one book on the odyssey, about the explanation on a psychological level, this is a trip of the soul
in the material world, to reach something, to reach somewhere. And after I did this, and I explained Omer,
based on the word cave based on the etymology of keywords that he uses. For example, the word cave in Greek
has two ways of saying a cave. The one is andron, and the other is spileon, or speos,
or speos. And there is a difference in meaning. Many people thought that Omer uses either andron or speos,
depending on the metric, because all the verses have what we call metro. And this is specific,
you know, a way to say these words. But this is not the real case. And it's amazing, because
when I realized from what I thought, what he means, in many cases, in my second edition of my odyssey,
I found, and I added this in the book, the proof of what I say, exactly the same way of thinking,
inside ancient scripts. And I go, how come I thought of that, and this was written
2000 years ago. It's amazing. And the analysis of Omer, given by other philosophers,
were exactly the same as the one I thought of. And I said, okay, this must be the explanation.
And in my first edition, I write, this is my view, my point of view. And the second edition is the proof
of this view. Because four years later, I found exactly the same way of thinking, and the same
explanation in philosophical scripts. It's amazing. Oh, there's so much in what you have said so far that
I wish to explore. This path of the soul is like, perhaps, and feel free to, you know, correct me.
It's as if something that has been wound up, it is being unwound, right? Through the path of our lives,
it is like an unwinding. And the unwinding is, in a sense, a bit like a musical thing,
where it is being conducted from above. Yes. Right? To make the tone. I mean, to have the
core stone there. How would you say? Yes, exactly. And I, too, have experienced something
very unexpected and shocking and profound in my own quest to understand
the nature of birth and death and time and light and justice and injustice and all of these things.
In English, we have this word that perhaps is related to the idea of the path of the soul.
If I'm not mistaken, I think it is metempsychosis.
Yes. And when you were speaking about the difference between the academic understanding
of Plato's use of the words for cave, which they say have something to do with meter and his choice
poetically, sort of as the pulse of the text, right? And yet, I know when I'm listening to you speak,
it's not cognitive knowledge. It's this other thing. It's recognition. I recognize that you have seen,
not from the academic point of view, but from the point of view of the light, from which these matters
originate, coupled, you know, in a way, lesser, in a lesser way, coupled with the academic's
analytical power. But it is driven by insight. Yes, exactly. Insight. Exactly. You are to the point.
This is exactly. Because what I found out that I feel and I explain that Homer, for example, in my own way,
it was not taught to me by any academic background or something. My academic background is in chemical
engineering. It has nothing to do with Homer. Actually, it has a lot to do with Homer.
Because mathematics and all this science actually derives from the Greek thought. That's why all the
names of scientific fields and domains are Greek origin. All the names. I mean,
this what we call ancient Greek religion or philosophy or science are synonyms.
This was the amazing thing that attracted me in the first place. They said, wow, how come, for example,
the field of the vacuum that we say, have you ever heard of that? And the field of the vacuum of
whatever space we see between the stars and galaxies and all this is not vacuum. It's actually, yeah,
it's like a big generation, let's say, of particles that at the moment that they are created, they vanish
at the same time unless there is an energy spiral in form that goes inside them and gives them existence,
gives them life. And this has been proved by quantum physics. And it's amazing. And I found in Plato
the explanation and the, not the explanation, the description of this, which when you read it,
sounds really weird. I mean, because it says, what is this that is never born and always exists?
And what is this that has never been born, that once it was born, but never existed? And that you say,
okay, okay, he must be crazy here. What is this? And this is the field of the vacuum. This is how we call it
in quantum physics, or like the quantum continuum, you know, that the time and the space, you don't
differentiate past, future and present, everything is one. And when you said that 100 years ago,
you would be considered, you know, crazy. Nobody would believe you. And now the nature of the electron,
which is, it's a dual, there's a duality in the nature of the electron. It is a body, like a particle,
which has an existence, a mass, with a mass, and a wave.
Right. It is fulfilling exactly what you said. It is, it exists, though it was never born.
And it was born. And it was born, yet it does not exist. Yes. Right.
See, I am, I am a duality myself. You cannot see my, the brain waves. But I am a pal.
Yeah, the snakes. Yeah, the snakes. The snakes in the Medusa.
The Medusa, yes, yes. Exactly. These snakes are the encephalogram, you know.
Yeah, the encephalogram. Yeah, the encephalogram. This is,
the brain here is called encephalos. Yes, yes. Encephalos.
En is, the word in is the word endos in ancient Greek, which means inside,
and the word in derives from endos. And the word kephali is the head.
So what is in kephali is encephalo, you see? Yes, yes, yes.
Oh, also, okay, earlier you said there was something very important here when
certain ancient, perhaps Greeks and others were very concerned about the invention of writing.
And they were very concerned about the invention of writing in part because of something that you said,
I think, which is that there is a, there is a call from outside, right? One who brings the knowledge
and, and transmits the knowledge. And then there's, there is a response from inside that reaches back
toward the origin from when, yes. And it's the first inspired, the one who called, the origin is in them.
It is in them. And it calls from them. And this is why I was, I was actually nervous today. I'm very
rarely nervous when I do conversations, but today I was nervous because when I was listening to you,
I recognize so clearly this origin has gotten inside you is speaking and calling to the world. And then,
and then people are responding, right? They recognize, uh, and then something in them,
it wants to be resurrected into an amnesis, into unfair. Yes. An amnesis. Exactly.
Because mnimi is memory. Yes. And ana means redo it. When you say in Greek ana is in, in, in, in the Latin,
or the English language is re or re, like, resurrect. Ah, mnisi, mnimi is memory. So bring back
back in the memory. An amnesis. Mnimi. So the pronunciation must be mnemosini. Mnimosini, yeah. Mnimosini.
Mnimosini. Mnimosini. Yeah. Wow. I'm amazed. Yeah, yeah. I too, I too understand something of this,
uh, this way of knowledge that you, that lives in you, that you, it sings in you. I understand this
way of knowledge about the little parts of words and something of their ancient origins in Greek and
other languages. Um, and during the experience I had, what was used to teach me was Hebrew.
Mm-hmm. And Hebrew also has a gemetria, which is a mystical encoding. I'm not sure that this wasn't
stolen from Greek. I'm not sure. There are people who, uh, let me tell you something here. There are
people that say that the Greek language originates from the Hebrew and this is completely wrong.
Mm-hmm. First of all, the Greek language has vowels. The seven vowels, uh, respond to the seven planets.
Mm-hmm. And there are, the, the vowels are solar origin, have solar origin, you see.
Uh, you cannot say that a language which is based mainly on the vowels,
because there are a lot of vowels in the words of the, the Greek language originates from a language
that has no vowels. Yeah, yeah. No, I want to be clear. I want to be clear about what I was saying.
So, when I underwent my experience and the Hebrew was used to teach me, it was used because it was
closer to my familiarity, right? It was chosen for this reason. Um, and so I learned gemetria and the,
sort of, the encryption, the spiritual encryption of language and letters and the vowels. Like,
the vowels are very profound because, uh, what we call consonants, they are like the material forms
and the vowels are like the energy, right? In your presentation. Exactly. Exactly. The consonants,
the consonants, I correspond to the matter and the vowels to the solar power. Yes, yes. And so,
exactly right. The spirit forms each of the consonants. They are expressions of different characters of
the spirit. And, uh, this resembles what you were speaking of when you talked about the Greek centurion
who had lost his son. And a man wrote him a letter about the death of his son in your presentation,
your PowerPoint. I cannot remember the names. The man wrote him a letter and he said,
do not be concerned. Death, there is no death. What there is? Ah, yeah. Uh, you mean Apollonius Optiana?
Yeah. Not be concerned. Yeah. And, uh, he, he wrote, he wrote a letter to this, uh, uh, he, he was
a general, a general, yes, in, in the army with the 1000 soldiers under him in, in Rome, in the Rome,
in Saint Rome. And he says, uh, the, the, the letter is not long. It's about two to three pages. And he
explains exactly that. Um, the, uh, the death is a transcendence to another state, to more dimensions.
And it's a transcendence to the state of the energy. Yes. When you take this energy, uh, to, uh, to put it
inside the material body, this is called Genesis, means birth. The Genesis in Greek is birth. Yes. So
you have the same thing expressed in two different ways, uh, with heavy matter means Genesis, with pure
energy means death, but nothing is lost. Yes. Also when the, um, when the energy comes into the form,
it loses dimensionality. There are less dimensions in a way to interrupt you. Form is the Greek word
Morphe. Morphe. Morphe. Morphe. Yes. Morphe is the form. You see, there are many, you can't imagine
about 70% of the English. It has Homeric origin. Yes. Yes. I can imagine. I can actually imagine,
right? Because to me, these things are, they are clear and there are very, very few people with whom I
can speak about them because there are people who can understand them if they are curious and, and, uh,
what is the right word? If their intelligence is complex. Yeah. Um, and everyone has, everyone has
all of the things, right? They all have, everyone has intelligence. Everyone is capable of insight,
but it is, we have mind inside us. Yes. But it is different. It is differently embodied in each person
and in each phase of their life, right? It depends on the state of evolution of the soul. Yes.
The, the, this, what stage of evolution are you? It's like having, um, uh, participation in the,
in the learning process. You start from, uh, the second, the primary school and then you go to the
secondary school and then university and then PhD and all the stuff, the post-graduate. You cannot
expect from, uh, one, uh, from a seven year old that goes to the first grade of the primary school,
you know, to understand, uh, the equations that are taught, uh, you know, or at least on the secondary
school or, or in that university. So it's like the same thing. We come down here to learn.
And this is a learning process and the learning process is, uh, it has a certain target. The target
is how you can clear your, uh, conscience and your heart from negative feelings. This is very difficult.
It's like, uh, having a notion and somebody drops you, you know, in the ocean. And, and, and he says,
okay, now start swimming. Otherwise you're drawn. Yes. Actually, I think it might be even stranger.
It's like, they drop you in the ocean and they say, now start drinking, drinking the whole thing.
You must drink your way to dry land. Just keep drinking.
Drinking or swimming. That's why the Odyssey, uh, you know, we, we see Odysseus trying to
swim to reach, uh, the Ephesians, the Ephesians, Ephesians, how you say, I guess we say, um,
the, the Ephesians are the Archangels, Archangels, the, the, the, the likes, uh, Archangel Michael
or Gabriel or something like that. These are the Ephesians, which are, say this word more clearly,
the Phesians, what are you saying? The Phesians, I guess, in Greek. Uh, it's P-H-A-E-C-E-A,
something like that. It's the place where Odysseus, uh, that, that Odysseus, uh, that, that Odysseus
reaches before they sent him back to Ithaca. It's not Phoenicia.
No, no, not Phoenicia. No. Um, well, you know, Calypso?
A little bit. Oh, okay. This is the last stage of the Odyssey. And after that,
he goes to an island with, um, uh, Nafsica. Have you ever, have you ever heard of that? Nafsica,
that she was, she was playing with a ball and then she found him there. And, and the king and the queen
of the, of this, we're calling them Phaekes. I don't know how you pronounce it. Okay. Phaekes.
Phaekes, yes. Uh, and these are, uh, the, the top in the rank of the angels.
Okay. Okay. Here, this is very important to me. And there's also some things I wish to ask because
I have interrupted you a few times when you were saying something important.
Forgive me. I just want to circle back to one thing briefly. The, the dance between the vowels
and the consonants, it is like the dance between birth and death. The spirit comes into the matter
and the form and then the form meets other forms and then it becomes energy again. And then it becomes
form again. And it is, it is like the snake, right? Which, which you can see. I love this,
this concept. I mean, the way of thinking, I like it. Uh, yeah. I'm learning from you.
I approve. You just helped me see this for the first time. I understood about the spirit of the vowels
and the materiality of consonants. This I understood, but I'm also desperately trying to understand things
about snakes, right? And the relationship between the snake, um, and the umbilicus,
the snake and wisdom, the snake and venom and medicine, all of these things. Yeah.
You can understand that from the words that, um, say this in Greek. Uh, the, the word is the,
the snake in ancient Greek is office. O-F-I-S. And the wisdom is Sophie. Sophia is a,
you see, it has exactly the same letters. And the, the, and if you take the word office and you take
the last, um, consonant, the S, the S, and you put it back at the beginning, it's like the snake
circling, you know, itself and devouring its, uh, tail, you know? The, uh, the Ouroboros. Exactly.
Exactly. And this is, uh, listen to the meaning. Here my, my head, suppose that I'm the snake. And, uh,
uh, uh, uh, I call it ouroboros. Ouroboros. Ouroboros. Ouroboros means the tail. And vorah means the food
in Greek. So, ouroboros, my food is my day. Are you saying day? Like carnivorous you see it's borah.
yes that i understand but uro are you saying
means daily yes and
is the food okay so the is the
you see i am missing something i'm missing something
when you say that i'm mispronouncing it is are you saying day d-a-y
what day what are you what is the meaning of
ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur is the day is a feminine when we have a feminine
name we have masculine names feminine names we have uh genders yes genders we don't but
because in english you don't have genders right we lose the dimension of meaning it's
gone yeah you see you can we have three genders like the german language has three genders
the latin i mean the italian and the french language has two genders masculine and feminine
but we also have neutral the neutral the masculine the feminine we have three genders and when
the last um vowel uh of the over word is a or e uh 99 is feminine like my name is maria you see
and helen of troa of troa is eleni you see either you have a or you have e yes yes so when you for when
in the greek language you you have a word that ends in uh or e very very and it's singular because we
have words that are plural and then you know in this but in the singular form 90 of these words are
feminine and then the general is feminine so we say is feminine that's why it ends in a
okay boros boros is food is food
means also food but when you take um when you take the noun
and you put it in a word to make an adjective because is the one that eats the the
day and it's the day it's the tail the tail that's the word that's the word okay tail
food now understand thank you that i understand yeah okay ah you you you hear the day not okay
it's t-a-i-l okay but you can show why i think it why i think it's the one who eats the day because
it is the sun setting no no it's the day i got you all right so uh suppose that if i am a snake
okay so my my um um backbone you know the the spine is like a snake so uh if the the movement that
the snake does to eat the tail is like that circling myself suppose i i put this here and i lower it
down here okay yeah so down here so and and the the lower part of myself is the center of the desires
we call it which means desire center and this is what where i feel the desire i feel the desire to eat
it's down here i feel the desire to make love and this is down here you see yes the the center of the desire
is down there so when i i have my my head going down here and devouring this means the my mind imposes
what it wants to impose and what we call wisdom or we say phronesis in the ancient greek and phronesis
means phora means the way you move and news noises is the mind so i impose the way my mind thinks to my
desire on my desire on my desire you know what i mean and that's why i devour it means i i i i don't let it
do whatever it's whatever it likes and it obeys my mind because i yes this is the meaning the code here
yes there's also a analogy here in the constant again in the consonants and the vowels
most of us we come down to earth and we make our spirit obey our desires we release the spirit
we torture our soul by forcing it to engage in the desires i want to see your head i want to eat
i get the money i want the car the house i need the things i like the stuff the spirit doesn't care
about any of that it's like dragging it through sewage or junkyard right and so um when we if we
experience uh an amnesis liberation re-memory then what happens is uh now the consonants obey the vowels
the vowels exactly i obey the spirit of the vowels now the constants are ordered properly by the spirit
of the origin and so uh the energy becomes the arbiter of of desire and action and the mind and and the
heart yeah so the inversion that happened at birth is reversed exactly and imagine that when you have
a woman giving birth so actually suppose these are the two legs and the the natural let's say
posture of a woman who gives birth is like standing up here's a head and open the legs and the baby comes
down here with the head towards the the ground downwards the head is downwards in order to see
the eyes of the mother like the soul of the of the great mother mother earth you have to do 180 degrees
you know turn you have to turn and not uh think uh not um orienting your thoughts towards matter
down here but towards heavens so you have to go back yeah you switch from matter to mother exactly
from from matter to mater and the word matter is in greek is mother yes yes really matter or meter you see
the a and the e could be exchanged uh so matter or meter means mother so the matter is the great the the
field of the great mother also the the um that thing that we call vacuum yeah it is uh it is not empty
no i think it is my perspective that it is a material reflection if you will of a feminine a meta feminine
being that i think of as the living waters it is an ocean it is waters it is like the waters of the womb
of the womb yes yes and we're in in the philosophy in green philosophy we have two
principles cosmic principles too it's not only one cosmic principle the masculine cosmic principle is like
the sperm and this is the mind of universe the universal mind the feminine cosmic principle is the matter that
receives the mind it's like having a plaster plaster let's say uh which is uh you know it can take the form
that you imprint on on it and here is a stamp we'll say that it has the species that is going to be born in the matter
and this stamp is stamped on the matter and then we have the species also once it was shown to me
so this is going to be so this is going to sound a little bit crazy but what my teacher i think it was
it was an angel not an angel like in the bible an angel like it was with my mind for a long period of
time and it taught me all the time right who who was it who was the i mean uh it it was a person that
somebody introduced to you it was he was um can you do you want to to say a few things about him i will
i will but first let me say so i don't lose my train of thought they they showed me that
it is as if i will call god i will call god the being that dwells in unity right it is light it is
like light light is its child it's not light light is something it makes but the being that dwells in
unity and its consort i will call the living waters right and so they are in love they are it is amazing
what is going on between them but what happens is one way of understanding what happens is that
the being that dwells in unity similar to the principle that becomes light it touches her and
she becomes like a mirror and she begins to form it informs her she begins to form and this is ecstatic
for her and then she reflects like a living mirror the experience of having been informed back to the
being that dwells in unity and he experiences ecstatic self-awareness something like this this is just one
way of a toy this is a toy it's amazing and this exactly is what the pythagoreans said
because this is what i'm teaching my you know my my students during this over the last three years
i always start my lessons uh for about pythagoreans and pythagoreans is the number the power of the number
so unity we call it monas and we have two words for unity we have the word n
n and we have which which is neutral and we have the word monas or moonas and from there we have one
from moonas you see yes if you omit m it's like one you see so and and monas is feminine
the gender and n is neutral so n it's like having both the the both the masculine and the feminine
cosmic principle inside and when it starts creating the universe it is called monas and the word monas
monas which is uh the one okay and the word monas derives from the word this is what the pythagoreans say
from the word menin because menin means dwell stay be there so
one two one right triangle it has the prince yes triangle triangle yeah the the triangles number three
which is the product of this um uh intercourse
intercourse yes it's the word intercourse in english it's so dead inside and what's happening is not like
that it is more like that it is more like orgasm oh of course right it is like expanding ecstatic
explosive reintegration and then expression something like exactly which you don't get from
this word intercourse we have the word sinusia sinusia sin means plus sin means plus
uh so something is connected to something else this plus this okay it's gonna we have the connection
and the the word the word is essence so our essence our essences come together it's amazing this is a
how they say sinusia it's not just the the intercourses it's not just you know
an act to to give orgasm is something that the the essence dwells inside us in the mind and in
the heart both okay this brings yes this brings another topic and i will come back to the angel
a little in a moment so the humans it's very unfortunate because they have no knowledge of
these things they do not realize that the words they are speaking and the words they are reading
and the letters and the words they are writing they have no idea what those are they are like children
who have been given a toy made by gods and they use it to clean up poop on the ground right they have no
idea and it's tragic i'm not i don't um i'm not trying to shame the humans i'm saying that they are the
they are like a victim of a tragic deception they are playing they're made of these divine
uh features and characteristics and the very likely that they that they are using to communicate
they don't know what it is they have no generally speaking and even the few people that do have an
idea mostly they have an academic idea exactly yeah the shell it's like you have um
and the motivation to to to have all these you know academic titles and all the stuff is either to be
renowned professors or something or you know financial reasons sorry
and to to to be you know and to boast about that and arrogance this is it arrogance and this is the
the motive they have you know and this is the inner ego ego and this is the symbol
for the cyclope the cyclope is the inner ego so he has only one eye because he sees only himself
oh aria you are like um all of the treasures in all of the ships that have sunken in the ocean
all coming up to the surface of the water and just glowing
right you are you are just so incredible
i must tell you that i have never found a a foreigner not a greek speaking you know a person
that has such a deep understanding of the real wisdom like you and i really enjoy talking to you
yeah this is what i mean i'm so happy right now i i'm like i'm having trouble staying in my chair you
know okay so uh so many things the cyclops yes yes i see i see okay yes yeah the humans
i adore them and i believe in them but it is tragic to watch them because they are like people who have
okay and they're like people who at christmas time they go to the tree they don't know why the tree is
there they don't know why there are lights they don't know why there are lights on the tree they
have no idea what that thing at the top the angel is they don't know what that is they think that's just
like it's just you know some goofy story or something they don't they don't understand that
this whole thing represents something absolutely primordial which they are made of they are made of
this thing they make the representation they put the presence underneath it and then but it is as if
this is a tree made by the gods not the humans and then they go to the tree made by the gods and the
presents are the gifts of the gods right and they take the wrapping paper and they throw away the
they throw all they burn up the they just that's just garbage get rid of that stuff we don't know
what that is we can use it we don't know what to do with that so just throw that away they keep the
wrapping and then they store the wrapping paper in these very special boxes right that are that are sort
of what would be the reverence for the wisdom and it's just representations it's like it's terrifying
to watch it if one has insight about the preciousness of life and the preciousness of our relationship
with origin and you feel like not belonging in this world you know yeah but also don't belong to this
world there are very few people that i can really communicate in depth i mean you know and heraclitus
says the best thing about the masses of the people you know heraclitus is a very important philosopher
heraclitus oh yeah yeah heraclitus and he says you know how he calls the people that are incarnated
and how you say dormants the ones that sleep all the time yes they are dormant dormant but there's
something profound that they do even when they are sleeping the gods are very um they're what is the
right word they are very efficient understanding they are very efficient the gods are very efficient and so
in the way that the humans have been composed when they are asleep they are dreaming
if they are truly asleep they are dreaming and if they are dreaming well what is dreaming how what
show me maria what is dreaming please yes i i will tell you how i explain the dreaming
first of all we must talk about the ether you know ether ether is what we call them
the heavenly fields of energy let us say there is no space there is no time everything is unity
unity unity the field of unity the field of unity the field that unity dwells
is called ether in in the orphic imns you know orphic imns a little bit yes there are 88 of those
who were given who were given by orpheus orpheus it was called the was called theologist which means
talking about gods it was very a divine being for for our culture and these imns were used
orpheus established the hallucinian mysteries hallucinian mysteries and the what they
chanted there were the orphic imns and these words have are very powerful have a very specific and big
power that can bring you in touch with spirits with using these words the vibrations of logos you know
this is this is very important uh what what you pronounce and what you vibrate in the universe
so orpheus has given some numbers in the 88 imns and the number five is the name for the ether
and the first thing it says in the first verse of this scene is that ether is the kingdom of zeus
and zeus is the cosmic mind let us say the creator of the universe so the ether is the place where it
duels it's like having um the palace of zeus is ether and it's not by coincidence that it's number five
because we we we we say yeah you have never heard of that we have four elements
four senses we have uh the the eye vision vision okay we have um hearing we have the smell
uh and we have the touch and we have the uh the the taste now we have five five senses but four of them
correspond to the four elements for example hearing corresponds to the element of the air because if
if we are in a vacuum we cannot hear anything we have vibrations of the air that vibrate
now the water is the taste you cannot if without saliva you cannot you know you have to make it
pulp and you cannot swallow um solid things okay so uh the taste it has to do with the saliva glands
glands that they give taste and give this taste so the taste corresponds to water and the the vision
on the eye side of how how you say the vision corresponds light to yes to fire to fire and then earth it is not
lit you cannot see it right you you need light and fire to to see and the touch the feeling of touch
it corresponds to the earth it is something must be solid in order to catch it there is only one
only one sense the sense of the smell that corresponds to what to ether
and it is the essence it is the essence yes the essence and and and it has been proved that the center
of the sense of the sense of the smell is is placed exactly over the
pineal gland i knew you were going to say that the pine cone yeah yeah yeah yeah exactly over over that you
we have the center and it was a noble prize in medicine the the one for the one for the person
who proved this so this essence uh and you you can see we we say for example from the flowers we take the
how you say how you say material nectar pollen pollen pollen or not pollen no we we have some um with
extraction with extraction of the extra not extraction oh um perfume perfume perfume perfume fragrance fragrance
fragrance yes the fragrance and there there are um uh scented uh liquids that derive from this
distillation let's say from this kind of this and all this essence i mean the the smell is contained inside
this uh liquid stuff that you can take from distillation and and you can smell you can have the smell in the
forest so when you close your eyes and you say this forest must be pine forest because it smells like that so and the spirits express
themselves through smells yes the flowers like for example the jasmine is always the same you have the same shape
geometrical geometrical shapes the same smells what is this there are divine beings spirits that uh preside uh oversee this uh
process of uh of of of having flowers or opening in the sun and all this stuff and give the same exactly
shapes and the same uh shapes and the same uh smells so this is not by chance what is the
a of this um material let's say thing that we call jasmine or lemon tree or whatever
and so there are uh let us say in in greek philosophy we call them lower gods
all demons and they uh the demons are not uh they don't have a negative um um a negative how you say
connotation yes a negative connotation and these are the beings that form nature yes they are more like
uh they're not there are things that resemble the bad demons i think but we'll get to that um yes
although there's different ways but the demons you mean they're a bit like um really skillful
very obedient engineers they make things at the behest of origin they make things and they obey
and they love yeah they obey and they don't have a free will they don't have yes yes now um obey the
law the cosmic law but they they love to obey the law they're not they don't feel bad about obeying it
they are made to obey it right it would be like um if my hand resisted me wanting to get the glass
but it's totally happy to get the glass it's it's it's doing what hands do it's i think it's like that
with these um demons that you mean here uh yeah so okay so i do i do have many i started saying
about the dreams but i have i had to say about the ether to understand oh yes because in in greek we say
that um we um listen um when uh we in order to to leave we need ether because the ether is like a source of life
that's why zeus has three names in ancient greek
we say we say zeus is zeus not zeus z-e-u-s the the e-u is called f not u or a i don't know
you distort the pronunciation so we have and whenever we have words start with e-u
the f i have always a positive connotation like euphoria you see euphoria
i mean bliss and happiness i mean that's that's really strange that particular word because the eu
is f but in this word the eu is also followed by f
yeah so it's very interesting because eu in in the zoos
we have we have z e-u e-u becomes f which is f and s now what i meant yes what i meant was in euphoria
we have euphoria we have euphoria ah in euphoria yes there is another f yeah so it's very interesting
because eu in in the zoos eu the u becomes f in zeps yeah and listen in euphoria you have eu and then you
you have f the word f in greek because when you have the word pharaoh like in in english it is fair
means bring in ancient greek so transfer you bring something to some to another place
for example uh infer means i bring the conclusion in my mind and i express let's say so differ means
via means two so i bring this in two in the state of two which is one is different from the other it's
not the same different the word is the a pharaoh in greek so whenever you have fair in the english
language it derives from the greek word pharaoh which means bring now when you say f foria
foria is then the noun of pharaoh which means uh the one that brings the f in your life and f means the
best state so euphoria is you know pharaoh which means bring the f and the u is f okay three three
names for zeus zeus zeus zeus zeus zeus zeus zeus zeus we're not zeus it's zeus which means that
inside this word we have four letters z e u which is called y this is the one the y actually is in
in greek and s so we have four letters like the four elements so zeus is the one that brings life
using the four elements okay and the life has an f inside it because life in greek is
zoe that starts with z okay so the one that keeps life of the f of the best state so zeus the other is
diaz which is and dia means through for example is something that goes through all the creation
yes and uh when you have the word diaz means that gives life life to everything that means this the
spread via you know means spread means and go through something so life goes through everything and
is spread this is spread this is this the idea is spreading with this and the word zevgnio that we
have the zeus zeus is bring together back so zevgnio means the the two opposite things where i bring them
together so from from the from the in the first place i i i spread life and then the second place i i take
all the creation back to me you see i this is zevs zevs zevs diaz zevs and diaz and the third word is zin which means
the verb zin in ancient greek means live
we have zin the one that gives life and diaz the one that spreads life and zevs the one that brings
everything together back to him all together this is it this is exactly the the angel showed me exactly
very i can't even say it i'm overwhelmed but but so that we don't get lost um please continue about
dreaming i have so many questions and things to say but please continue now i will tell you my feeling
about dreaming i have not studied it but i feel it okay now uh in order to leave you need ether because
this is a source of life right and it's the kingdom of zeus that gives life right you can take ether
in three processes in three ways the first way is through the breath because plato says socrates in
play in in kratylus the the book that i have written eight years of my life is kratylus is how the greek
language was formed is the plan for the formation of the greek language for the construction of the greek
language is given in kratylus and i it's my my expertise is there well it says that
how you take life yes yes about from the from the air it says we have air is the air that's why you say
air is air air is that we have air air and ether and ether is a fear theory so it says that inside
the air we have the ether and you can see feel it from the word itself
And because the kingdom of Zephs is the kingdom of the ether, and Ayr is Ira, which is Hera,
the wife of Zeus, see?
And if you say Ayr many times, Ayr, Ayr, Ayr, Ayr, you have Ira, which is Hera, okay?
And when we say that Zephs is always with Ira, means that inside the air you have the ether,
you have the power of life, because without the breathing there is no life.
So the life exists inside the air, it's not just the oxygen, it's the ether, you see?
See, the ether, it's like energy, it's like energy, let us say, it's like a wave, it's like something.
Yes, I want to just ask something.
We've had this idea of ether, which in English, you know, we say ether, but...
Yeah, ether, ether, we say ether.
Yes, ether, and the physicists threw it away, right, they threw it away, but I think maybe
they were confused, because maybe ether is electromagnetism.
Of course, of course, of course, it's not something material that you can measure or weigh or something.
They got confused, they were worried, they couldn't imagine, yeah, they got confused.
And it's over-vibrating light.
Yes, yes, exactly.
And the vibration is so intense that it's much more than the fire.
The fire, the first of the elements, is like the lower grade of the vibration of ether.
Yes.
You understand?
Yes.
Yes, yes.
We lower the...
When we...
Yes, yes.
This is how it is.
...vibration of ether, and the first vibration lower than the ether is the fire.
Then the lower of that is air, lower than that is water, and lower than that is the land, the earth.
You understand?
Oh, I see.
So the less it vibrates, the more solid it becomes, right?
The more it vibrates, the more fiery it becomes.
And when it exceeds the vibration of the fire, we have ether.
You understand?
Yes.
Okay.
Dreaming.
Dreaming now.
So you can take life, first, through breathing, because ether inside.
Secondly, through intercourse.
Because you exchange the ether with the other person.
It's like an exchange of ether.
Because the ether is inside us because we have life, and life is ether.
So we...
And if I have more ether means I have more power in my mind.
So if I go with somebody with less, not just cognitive ability, much more than that.
You understand what I mean?
Like you and me, we understand now what we mean.
So if I come into intercourse with somebody with very low vibrations, it's like sucking my ether.
I don't exchange the ether, it's like being a vampire of my ether, right?
So I lower this, the vibration of my ether.
If I come in a sexual conduct with somebody that has low vibrations in the mind.
Yes.
And the third thing that makes me take ether in order to live is dreaming.
Because, and I'm now at this point, the Greeks say that the soul is connected with the body through a cord,
which is called golden cord or, you know, it's like invisible cord.
What is it in Greek?
In Greek.
In Greek, in ancient Greek is olkos.
Spell.
Olkos means, it is from the verb elko, which means pull.
Elko means pull.
And olkos is something that pulls you to something else.
Spell it.
Please.
Please spell it.
To spell it.
Olkos.
O-L-K-O-S.
Thank you.
Yeah.
This is olkos.
Yeah.
This is important.
This cord.
This invisible cord that actually, it's like the eubilical cord that connects the baby,
the navel, we say navel or navel, how you say?
Navel.
Yeah.
The navel of the baby to the mother's womb.
So maybe this olkos comes through the belly button.
The belly button.
Yes.
Yes.
Maybe.
Maybe.
And the delos, it is the navel.
Is it not?
Delos, the island?
Ah, delos.
Yeah.
Delos.
Navel.
It's like a navel, a navel of the earth.
Yes.
Maybe.
Yes.
This is important.
There's so many things.
Oh, so many things I could share.
Okay.
So the dreaming is the gathering.
The dreaming is having this, this cord is extensible.
Very, very extensible.
And if it is cut off, then you die.
So in the Orphic hymn of death says that you cut off the soul cosmos.
And the soul is liberated from the enchainment, let us say, I don't know, of the body from this.
Imprisonment.
The imprisonment, yes.
The imprisonment of the body.
So it is liberated.
And while dreaming, this cord is extended so much to the point that it reaches the soul,
reaches the ethereal fields and takes ether.
Who gives the ether?
The guardian spirit that accompanies the soul in order to bring it into the body.
So the spirit takes your soul over there and it has, it's like having ether, taking ether from the ethereal fields and giving it to the soul.
Okay.
Supply.
It's like a supply of ether.
And that's why you cannot stand being alive if you are not allowed to sleep for more than seven days.
Seven days is the longest period you can stand without dying, without sleep I mean.
But you can survive one month without food or more, you see.
Without air, you cannot survive more than a few minutes.
Without sleep, you cannot survive for more than seven days.
And without food.
Your body loses the capacity to control its temperature if you cannot sleep.
It loses the capacity for homeostasis.
Right?
This is where you die.
To control the temperature, eh?
Yes.
Which is in a way to control the fire.
Right?
You can't control the fire.
You know why?
You know why?
Because when the soul goes over there, it goes together with the core, with the nucleus.
Because the nucleus of the soul is like the chemical atom in chemistry.
You have the nucleus with the protons.
And the protons is the word proton, which means first.
And noose, noose, which means mind.
The first, the top mind.
And that's why they are positive.
They are positive because whatever is connected to the cosmic mind has a positive connotation, of course.
But the electrons that are circling, you know, are orbiting the nucleus, are negatively charged.
Because I have the karma, and I have to pay off.
So, I resemble the electron that goes around my nucleus.
And you know how we call nucleus in Greek.
It's a very, very interesting word.
Pyrin.
P-Y-R-E-N.
This is Pyrin.
And Pyr is fire in ancient Greek.
And In means was in ancient Greek.
So, it used to be fire.
But now it's inside the body.
And this is exactly the reason why we have this temperature inside us.
It's, you know, because the Pyrin, which is my mind, which is fiery origin, is ethereal origin in my mind.
And it's like the element that resembles most this ether is fire.
And we say that the mind is fiery.
It's like, it's fiery origin.
It's the, yes, the element that resembles the mind is the fire.
So, I have the fire inside me.
And I have to cool it down.
Because if I come inside the body with a fire, it will burn it.
And what we need is an insulation of this fire.
And the insulation is called soul.
And in Greek is Psyche.
Like psychic.
P-S-Y.
P-S-Y.
And he is like he.
Like, actually, whatever we have in Greek with he, you write CH.
And you call it K.
But it's not K, it's who.
Like mechanic is mechanikos.
So, we pronounce, the CH is pronounced K, like only H.
We say mechanic machine.
It's mechanicos.
So, Psyche, Psyche, P-S-Y.
We say Psy, not Psy.
I don't know why they pronounce it Psy.
It's a complete distortion of the word.
Why they call it Psy and you write Psy.
Psy is Psy.
It's not Psy.
Psy.
Psyche.
Psyche.
Psyche.
Psyche.
Speaks.
Psyche.
Psyche.
Psyche.
Psyche.
Psyche.
Psyche.
Psyche.
Psyche.
So, Psyche cools down the fiery minds, you understand?
Mm-hmm.
So, it's core, the Pyrene, the core of the soul, the nucleus of the soul, is
fiery, and then the soul is like an insulation, of seven, let us say layers, like, you know with
the chakras of seven layers like the seven orbits around the nucleus of the chemical atom you see
in chemistry around the sun exactly and the seven planets around the sun so whatever you see in
astronomy is exactly the same with the one you see in in chemistry and it's exactly the same
when you correspond to the sun this is what i realized and because i studied chemistry
i am astound i mean wow look at this resemblance
the micro world is exactly the macro world it's also that um it is as if there are registers
or layers and in each layer the principles of the previous layer they are present in a unique way
and even the alphabet is like the it's like in a way
one could imagine that it is like the the proteins or the dna of of the mind the letters are like the
dna of the mind of god or something like this they are the the the little parts the little pieces
that when you send together they um each one becomes a unity that encompasses all of origin but in a
special smaller version maybe the word is hypostasis a lesser stasis right a lesser
representation or embodiment of these principles exactly and it's like having an organism
consisting of cells you cannot differentiate this it is a unity but at the same time a plurality
okay so i want to show you something very briefly when the angel was with me it didn't speak never spoke
it would make my mind it would cause my mind to see what it was possible for my human mind to see of
its way of seeing so what it would do is it would make me to see right did not speak and also it never
although it could do a thing like speaking which was to form this vision in my mind of a way of seeing
something and it showed me many impossible things i i had no idea something like this was even possible
i'm very imaginative i never imagined something like this could happen to me i hoped it conveyed messages
through the mind without speaking yes it made my mind see what it was possible for me to see
without the seeing killing me because if it actually opened the aperture of its mind i would be destroyed
right yeah close the aperture of its mind and transmitted the the living light of intelligence
right something exactly it's logos or something that's it this is yeah and i oh wow this is exactly i was
about to tell you about logos let's go
tell me something because i i i would like to to know a few things about you i mean your experience
what you do and how you are involved in this you know matters very interesting because i think
that the the souls the souls that have um that have been granted such deep understanding
must find each other yes somehow because uh if we we live in the period that
the enlightened minds and souls must come together because the light must be strengthened yes because
there's a lot of darkness around and i don't think this is by coincidence
no matter if we are greeks or hebrew or whatever we are
we are this is humans i mean humanity has done that the the soul has a specific origin from the heavens
and we we have all it's like being cells of the same organism of the same body and you i cannot say because
suppose i belong to the greek let us say race that uh uses the alphabet as the the the core of wisdom
you know that i am something more important than the other cells suppose that i am a cell
of them of the brain and you are a cell of the heart we cannot say that one is better than the other
then it's more important than the other yeah yeah we agree oh no we agree we agree very much
the humanity of the of the beings the unity and all these
differentiate you know the the um the points of view the the the this uh how you say uh the mentality
that uh is conveyed to us we are higher than the others and no matter what this is sorry for the
word is is bullshit no this is poison this is poisonous it is all the human beings are must be
um considered in the same way as cells of the same body if you will deliver and i belong to the heart
doesn't matter all of us are important for for the 441 you know what i mean the great the great the
grapes on the vine right exactly one of the grapes is the important grape it is this it is the fact of
the vine and where it comes from right exactly and also the finest and we are the grapes yes also this thing
right which one of these is the important one you need the whole thing is there one of the wings on
the bird one of the feathers that's particularly the important feather right you fly together
right you come together and you fly us moderns we are um we are broken we are broken very badly broken
because we think like the christmas analogy i gave right the wrapping papers the really important thing
throw the gifts away we in a similar way we think like uh we are trained to think this way the children
are scripted the adults have always thought this way the whole thing is a mess but we're trying to
think like i am the important thing darren the very important this darren thing right yeah the darren it is
like the shoe of my soul it is not the important thing the important thing is what we make when we come
together that's it what we have a mind for a mind is not really for thinking i think it is not for
thinking it is for communion it is for um an amnesis together communal unforgetting right yes the invocation
of living insight right to bring the living insight down and to circulate it among the people so that
they heal and they remember and they rest with each other from the terrible sleep of the side exactly the
cyclops right this yeah thing like i am the thing i am not important thing yeah and the best word i really
love in english the best word in english i like is the word remember because it has etymology there is
this etymology the word to remember it's like re means together again re like redo i do it again okay
rebuild i build again so remember is i bring again together the members of dionysus that is cut by titans
so uh when i remember i i i come together with all the other members and we become one you see yes
my my origin okay so when the angel was with me it showed me many things i call toys i call them toys
um this is complex why i do this i will explain it to you in some time at a time when it's convenient
for both of us but um i want to show you something very briefly so m right m it's like the eyes of the
owl it is the the feminine wisdom m right a yeah and there's different ways to think of each of these
it's not one way it's not like there's a lexicon that you read from you have to have like a poet you
have to play with the letters like m so it is the seeing of the mothers right and then a it is like the
first principle origin alpha right the origin the informing uh intelligence of god um r it radiates
it radiates it radiates out i this this dot above the i it is origin coming down into being and then a
is the the resurrection of that first principle from the radiance and this is maria
there is a letter a again you you said about a yeah so m a r i a maria yeah well the the mother's
wisdom informed by the first principle it's information the r radiates out like a radio just
like what you do you are a radio right you do this and then is the origin intelligence the
logos coming down into matter into one into beings right and then yeah is the way that those four letters
impress themselves and cause the remembering
this is just in your name right it's just a toy of your name but these there is a there is a way of
under of playing with the letters poetically that's very powerful in terms of um revealing revealing
something about character so my own explanation based on how i understand the letters in the alphabet
please you this okay uh first of all the m uh looks like a wave
and goes upwards downwards upwards upwards downwards downwards and downwards is mother earth and
on this planet on mother earth that also starts with m mother uh you learn things through
uh the feelings the way the feelings are like the sea and this is poseidon in in me i sometimes i am calm
sometimes i am wavy or turbulent or something okay yeah through the ups and downs ups and downs of the
feelings you have to learn how to calm down this wavy thing the first thing so m um symbolizes the incarnation
on mother earth and the learning process through the cleansing of the uh sentimental state from impurities
means means negative feelings you have to learn how to cope with fear with sorrow sadness with
hatred or whatever and with arrogance with there are so many things here that you have to control
so this is what you have to learn that's why the word learn in greek is ma thano it starts with m again
and um and and and minastic regis who has uh especially and his specialization is the the uh minuan scripts
of the minuans and the linear b yes he told me that the the syllabe the syllabe ma in
in the minuans in the minuans in the minuans in the minuans era era era era not era era yes
means learning learning learning process ma means learn now this is as far as the word the letter m is
concerned uh wavy feelings a learning process how to calm them down which takes
place takes place on mother earth in the incarnation of mother earth right okay and you come down you
are up and down up and down you come down also uh waking sleeping sleeping yeah you get the ether you
come back down you wake up yes you sleep at the ether you come back down exactly exactly so yes you can say
up and down right now a um in in philosophy we have the word the letter lambda in greek because the l is
like that this is lambda yes but you know the latin is like that but actually right you know lambda right
so uh the incarnation is also called lambda because lambda is this and with the incarnation we have the mind
which is my unity my uh my upper self
uh and it is divided into when it comes inside the body and this is body and this is mind so
the body structure and the uh spirit this is it's like the the particle of the the electron has is a particle
so it has body has mass and it also a way it's also a wave so i am a combination of the two body and mind
matter and energy let us say and this is called lambda now with the alpha
lambda these are connected in order to find the principle that you the cosmic principle the origin the
the the your origin because uh the principle is called archi and starts with a with a uh so in order to
find out to find out and be connected with the origin of the the original state of your being
with archi which means the start the starting point is archi and he means
beginning and also means power in ancient greek yes whatever is the beginning the the starting point of the
of the cosmos is also the power here's the power okay but it it is also like the uh the species on the
stamp that impresses the matter it has character specific character for each person right yes it puts
the character into the matter you think it exactly it's like the the dna
of the two cells that become a body they they merge and they they mate and the character
is transmitted to the to the body somehow i'm i'm with you okay m a yeah yeah um well uh the word
character character character character is in ancient greek you see character ch is ha
character character character character character character what i told you is character character character
okay the same now the the it derived from the verb haraso which means in uh how you said it not
when you have the metal for example and you take a something sharp that you inscribe yes inscribe
This is Haraso. Haraso is inscribed. So it's like my character is what inscriptions I have inside my soul.
Yes. Almost as if this soul is a book in which things are written.
Yeah, exactly. Now, when we have this, as I said, this means at the state of the lambda, of the duality, I connect this and I make them one.
So you must combine the body and the spirit, not focus only on the body or only on the spirit.
So if you manage to combine them, then automatically you form the letter A that you go to the original state.
So because in English, if I refer to my mother, I say ma.
Ma. Ma. Ma. Ma. Ma. Ma. Ma. Ma.
Yes, exactly.
And not just in English, in many places all over the world, though it's different.
In many places it's baba, baba, beta, alpha, but yes, yes, okay, I'm with you.
So ma is the letter A is the original of all the things.
And it's like showing you that you can reach the original state inside the duality if you try to combine them, okay?
So this is my point of view and my perspective.
And now the word rho, the R is rho.
It is, suppose you have this and rho is like the P.
You have the letter P in ancient Greek is the rho.
And you know how we write it.
We have a circle and this, okay?
Which means after, and rhoi means the flow.
It's the flow of life through the circles of incarnation, same flow.
Yes.
So rhoi means flow, it is in the central part of the word, Maria, which is actually the etymology of Maria is Mother, Mater, Rhea, which is Mother, Rhea of Zeus, of Zeus.
It's Mother, you see?
And Maria is the mother Rhea, which is also called Rhea, Rhea or Rhea.
We find both.
And it's the one that flows.
Yes.
Because life is in the field of transformation.
Everything is transformed and flows and nothing and stays the same.
This is what he said.
Yes, yes.
So again, you see that although you have a different and unique and important understanding, and I'm learning, I'm receiving, right?
Yeah, I'm receiving too, because it's very interesting.
I love the way of thinking and what you said.
Yeah.
So when I say radiating, right, R is like a radio, right?
It radiates.
It is flow, right?
It is very similar.
Keep going.
I want to hear.
Exactly.
Because radiation is a flow of light.
Right.
It's exactly that.
But the word Rho, and when you pronounce the word Rho, this is what Socrates says in Tratilius.
Socrates analyzes a few letters, not all the letters inside Tratilius.
And one of them is the word, the letter Rho, and says what's the tongue when you pronounce R?
It's not R. It's like R. It goes up and down, up and down, up and down.
Continuous movement of the tongue, which is like the flow.
It flows.
It's always in motion.
Okay.
A couple of things briefly.
It's like a galloping horse, too.
And also, I don't know if you have raccoons, raccoons, right, in Greece.
We have them here.
No.
We have them here.
And at night, when you see them, and they are talking, it sounds like this.
It goes.
It does.
It makes this.
The sound of Rho.
It makes the sound of them.
Yeah.
Keep going.
This is great.
I love this.
Oh, my God.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Right.
So, Rho is the flow and also it is the circle of incarnation and the flow of life inside the circle of incarnation.
Okay.
And I now, the I, is like a ray of the sun.
Mm-hmm.
And for me, yeah, it's like the thinner and the straight letter of the alphabet, the thinness, is the I. And we call it in the Greek alphabet, Iota.
Iota.
Iota.
Iota.
Yeah.
Listen.
The Iota has E and Ota.
Ota with O, Mega, not the, we have two O's.
Okay.
O, Micron.
Micron means micro, small.
O, Micron, small O.
And O, Mega and Mega means big.
Like Mega, you know, Megaton and Mega, Megacosm and Microcosm, you see, Macrocosm and Megacosm.
So, Mega means big and Micro means small.
So, we have the small O and the Mega O.
Omega.
All right.
In the beginning.
Oh, in the beginning, big.
Oh, in the end, small.
In events.
Omega, Omega.
Oh, no way.
You mean, at the end of the alphabet is the Omega.
It means like ending the big circle of incarnation.
Ending.
This is Omela.
Right?
Okay.
Now, Ota, in the word Iota, is written with Omega and means the ears.
Ota.
We say Oto, Rino, Larigo.
This is Oto, Rino, Larigo.
This is Rina and this is Ota.
Okay.
Ota.
Oto, Oto, something.
Well, Ota are two.
We have two ears.
The word Noos, which is mind, has inside the word Oos, which means one ear.
The one ear is Oos, the two ears are Ota.
So, Noos has the one.
And Ota, that I have two, I am in the duality, that's why I have two Ota.
So, in the letter Iota, you have the two Ota and in the Noos you have the one Oos, which
means that inside this letter you have a word, the name of the letter, you have a word that
relates this letter to the mind.
Because Ota are the two ears and Oos in the Noos, which is mind, is the one ear.
So, this means that I am the mind in the duality or the plurality and the Noos is the one mind.
So, this is a proof for me that this is a symbol of the mind, of the atomic mind, of one person's mind.
That is like the ray of the sun and the sun is a universal mind and the rays are the minds of the people.
You understand?
Yes.
So, Ota is the mind of the human, the human mind, which is the one atomic separate mind.
It's a small part of the whole mind, like the ray of the sun.
It has the same nature with the sun, but it's not the sun, you know, but it is light, however.
Also, yes, like one of the grapes on the vine, but there's something very strange happening right now with us that is powerful, I think.
You are holding up a pen.
Hold it up again, please.
Hold it up.
Yeah.
Okay, notice that up here, to make the pen work, I have to press this on this pen, right?
On that one, you have to take the cap off.
But also, right, inside the pen is ink.
And the ink is like origins intelligence, right?
Inside us, right?
And so, it has to be activated from above in order to be useful.
Yeah.
So, it's very funny that you select this.
Or the sound of a cave light sink that you are.
You remove the cave, right?
You take the darkness away like Plato's metaphor of the cave, right?
Where you go behind and out of the light.
Yeah.
I'm with you.
Keep going.
I love this.
Oh, my gosh.
Now, so, we have the eye, the iota, which is the atomic mind, the separate, the one human
mind that comes down.
And this is what will really connect with the A, again, the origin.
So, I suppose, you have M come down here in the wavy feelings in the wavy sentimental state.
Okay?
And you know that in the love, you come down here in duality, but you have the potential to go back again.
You have to experience the flow of life at all.
And, you know, in the many cycles like that.
And then focus on your mind and essence, which is the iota and the light inside you.
And this will lead you back to the A, to the cosmic principle, you know?
Okay.
In the animals, in the animals, the salmon, right?
It is born in a little stream.
It swims down the little stream.
It goes to the ocean, right?
And then it becomes very big in the ocean.
And then when life is ending and it wants to make children, it comes back.
But it often has to swim up a waterfall, which is impossible.
You can't swim up a waterfall.
Up a waterfall.
But they do.
They do.
Yeah.
Amazing.
And it's like the process.
It's a symbol in the animals of what we must do.
Yeah.
We must swim back up the waterfall that led us down into the duality.
We must cross and then come back up to this.
Very nice.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And although the water continues to flow down with great, you know, power, powerful flowing,
and we have to go against this power of the flow of water.
And this is exactly, it's amazing.
This is exactly the simile, when I say simile, the picture that Socrates gives when he explains
the word adhikia, which means injustice.
And it says...
Spell that word.
Adhikia.
Yes.
It's a, it's a, a, alpha, a, d, which is d, delta, we could say d, th, you could say d, but
we, the, the, the, the, the letter d, in, in the Greek, it is pronounced d, or like this.
Okay.
Adhikia.
Adhikia.
Adhikia.
Adhikia.
Adhikia.
Adhikia.
Adhikia.
Adhikia.
It's very nice.
Nice.
Nice accent.
Adhikia means injustice.
Okay.
I must say, my whole life I try to understand injustice.
Why?
Why are the humans cruel to each other?
Why are the humans confused?
Why do they make war?
Why do they torment each other?
All these things.
Why is there badness in the world?
It drives me.
And it is this concern that resulted in the angel coming to teach me.
It was a concern with this.
Wow.
This is what it came when I was trying to understand, with my whole spirit, I was trying to understand.
Tell me something, Darren.
How old were you when you first experienced this?
39.
My 39th year.
Wow.
In May of 2002.
Wow.
It was with me for nine months.
It was like being, it was like being made an embryo in the womb of the divine.
It was like living through my embryo genesis in the womb of the divine and then being reborn as a human again while I'm alive.
Wow.
Nine months.
Yeah.
Nine months.
So this experience lasted for nine months.
Yeah.
Lasted nine months.
Every day, every day, the teaching me.
Teaching.
Wow.
And this came unexpectedly.
Yes.
No idea this was even possible.
No idea.
Yeah.
Very.
In your dream or no.
No, no.
I'm writing.
I'm writing.
Okay.
I'll tell you a little piece of the story if you wish.
Yes.
Of course I do.
Because I have similar experience and I want to share.
Yes.
I want to know.
We, and we may have further conversations, right?
Of course.
I, I hope.
Um, but, uh, okay.
So let me try to be brief.
Uh, in the nineties, I, I am fascinated by language from like 18 onwards.
And even when I was very young, I had skill with language.
In English, we call this, um, hyperlexia, hyperlexia.
Like, uh, I learned to read very early.
Hyper means super.
Yeah.
Over.
Yeah.
And Lexis in his words.
Right.
So you, you, you have ability, let us say, to be fluent in space.
Yes.
But also with reading.
Like I was reading adult books when I was four or five.
Okay.
I was reading novels when I was five.
Like science.
Wow.
I read 2001 A Space Odyssey when I was five.
Okay.
Wow.
I was, I was good with language, but, um, I'm not trying to brag.
Many, many children have amazing gifts and the gifts are mostly, they are crushed by the society.
Society tries to crush the children's intelligence.
Tragic.
Anyway, so one day for long, many years, I'm experimenting with language.
I'm writing poems.
I'm playing with words.
I'm curious.
I can tell there's something magical here.
Anyway, one night I come home from work and suddenly I am gripped by an insight.
And I think I can see what is wrong with the humans.
I think I can maybe even make medicine for it.
So I start writing, writing madly for like two, two and a half hours.
Something is writing through me.
And I write like 150 pages of this book.
And I think I can solve the problem.
I have this vision.
A vision has me is what has happened.
I have been, I have been possessed by a vision.
I'm writing.
I've never written like this or anything like this.
I write and write.
Let me ask you something.
You used to write poems or something or you used.
Besides what you were doing, I mean, for your, for, you know, for financial reasons, how to make your living.
What's your, I mean, your job?
What did you do then?
Okay.
I am magically good with computers.
I'm a technician.
I build computers for businesses, for publishing, for writing, for publishing, for graphic design.
I make.
I make.
Okay.
Your domain had to do with writing, but from another point of view.
And, and you, I mean, your, you, but for yourself, you used to write things to keep them for yourself like poems.
Yes.
Yes.
But also I published magazines.
I published magazines of other writers.
Oh.
And to publish the magazines of other writers.
I had to write what they wrote.
So I had to write the writing of others, which is a very strange thing and useful to do.
If you want to be intimate with language or writing, you want to have the experience of writing what others have written.
It's a very, you know, and also editing, right?
Editing.
Yeah.
Ah, you do editing too.
Okay.
All right.
So you're, you, you deal with this all the time with writing.
All right.
All the time.
And also fonts are, are a specialty.
Fonts.
The style of letter.
If you are good in editing, my next book in English.
Yes.
Please.
Yes.
Good.
Or help you with computers.
Or help you with computers.
I love to translate other books in English too.
Yes.
Yes.
The Greek language.
Yes.
Okay.
I'm out of my mind.
I'm writing.
I'm like, this is amazing.
I've never done anything like this.
I pause.
I save the document.
I pause.
I get a notification on my computer that there's an update for the computer system, right?
There's an update for the system.
So I apply the update to the computer and it crashes during the update.
Very bad.
Shouldn't happen.
I'm a technician.
I'm the guy who fixes things when this happens.
I'm intact.
My computer crashes.
I'm like, okay, great.
Here we go.
Come on.
So I get the computer back together.
Everything's fine.
Except the document is gone.
Just that one document.
It's gone.
The one that you had written.
The one that you had written.
And you had written on the matter of injustice.
Mostly kind of about human cognition, its relationship with language, and that, and then injustice.
Follow up with humans, language, injustice, right?
This kind of thing.
Wow.
So it's gone.
My heart is broken.
I'm shattered.
I cannot recreate it.
The whole spirit of the thing is gone.
It's gone.
All right.
So you felt like having this inspiration and put it down in writing and then lose it.
Immediately.
So it is.
I am crushed.
It's gone.
Yeah.
I cannot do it again.
Never.
All right.
So a few years passed.
This was like that happened like in 1999.
And then in 2002, again, it comes this inspiration.
I start writing.
I'm writing an essay called Symbols and Sanity, which is a play on a book by a Polish man called Science and Sanity.
His name is Alfred Korzybski.
Very important.
That's a separate.
All right.
So I'm writing again.
And I think suddenly I realized that the network of human minds, there's a network of the human minds.
And it is like an environment.
It is like a planet.
It is a layer of what is happening on Earth.
This network of minds.
And I make that.
Wow.
Because I hear this.
And well, I don't want to interrupt you because after that, I will tell you how I
explain the magnetism, the magnetism of the Earth.
Yeah.
Oh, my God.
This is exactly what I feel.
Wow.
Okay.
So I see the network and I make a word for it.
I call it.
I call it the cognitium, cognitium, the human cognitium.
And I realize it is like a world in a way.
It is like a world.
It is like the Earth is a world, but it's invisible.
And the network is a real environment that the humans don't see.
And then I think, oh, there are, you know, organisms.
They are not Darwinian.
Competition is not what makes organisms do their thing.
The ideas of Darwin are important and evolution is real.
But what organisms do is they are symbiotic.
They help each other survive.
They don't transform into another species.
No.
No.
Never.
No.
Of course.
Never.
Even many biologists, they have realized there is no way to get species from evolution.
You can't do it.
Exactly.
Exactly.
They try to symbiosis.
Symbion in Greek means live together.
Okay.
Yes.
Okay.
So I realized something very important, which is I've already learned that the organisms
don't compete.
This idea, it's not wrong, but it's the wrong focus.
Okay.
Yeah.
But in the cognitium, there's, there are things and they're not organisms, but they compete
and they are, they are capturing the humans.
They are capturing the connections between the minds and they are using this to mutate
and they want to dominate the cognitium.
And I call these things thrisps.
Now, again, I'm not saying this is what it is.
Again, say again the last, not paragraph, the last sentence.
So, there is competition in the cognitium.
You call it cognition?
Yes.
Yeah.
In the cognitium, there's, there are things.
There are in the cognitium, the cognitium is a place that minds dwell, only minds.
Okay.
And the minds of humans that dwell the earth, they, they, they have a dwelling for the minds
that is, that is over the earth, like a separate earth in a, in a spiritual state that surrounds
the earth.
Okay.
Right.
And there the minds are competitive, are competing with each other.
The minds, no, the minds are like a media, a media.
They are like a water, right?
They're like a kind of water.
In the water, there lives something dangerous and it is competitive and it wants to dominate
features of the network and it wants to be contagious in the minds.
It wants to, it wants to infect the minds, right?
And it wants to control, not just the, not just the eye.
It wants to control what connects the eyes.
It wants to control the, the, the infrastructure that holds, that makes the cognitium whole.
It wants to control that.
And these things I call thrisps.
Th-h-r-i-s-p-s.
Th-h-r-i-s-p-s.
Th-h-r-i-s-p-s.
Th-h-r-i-s-p-s.
Thrisps.
Thrisps.
Thrisps.
Thrisps.
Thrisps.
This is what I understand.
they are they are a problem in the structure of the cognitium that is like cancer
yes i mean why do you call it like that it is like a virus kind of except it is more like a
complex thing like an animal is so i can see i look i can see the cognitium in my vision
and i see it is infected with these things which i call thrisps and then i'm writing this right
yes i this is a name that you just invented yeah it's a it's a neologism right neologism
neologism means something the new a new word
in greek if you were if you're speaking ancient greek you would neologize
in english we don't neologize you just use the words that are already made
but in ancient greek it was more common to neologize because greek greek gives you the
tools to neologize so exactly and with etymology yes okay yeah yeah yeah all right so i see the
thrisps and i'm like oh i can this is the problem these thrisps they are the problem they are
dominating the human cognitium and nobody knows about them um okay so then i go into my imagination
to make a word for the infrastructure what connects the minds right the network itself
and when i go in my imagination to make that word there is a light
there is a light and it starts to teach me impossible things
and i don't understand what's happening in my mind i am sitting right where i'm sitting now
and the light i have never seen a light in my imagination and it just starts teaching me
and it teaches me using geometric transformations of geometric shapes but the shapes have impossible
meanings there it is like pure intelligence flowing into my mind it is connecting all the
different branches of human knowledge history music mathematics philosophy language biology all these
things when it when it teaches me it teaches me as if they are one thing and i've never experienced
anything like this and i don't understand what is happening and then i stop and i think what is going
on i pause right and the light i don't see it i pause i'm in my regular mind again and i'm trying to
understand what is happening am i okay is this am i still a question uh when you say is when you said
there was a light there was what i mean in your imagination or you actually saw in my imagination
it was like there was a place in my imagination like a special room and when i turned my attention
toward that place which is the place where you make words in that place when i went to make the word
suddenly there is a light there has never been a light in my imagination but this is an experience
that you had while writing yeah where i'm sitting right now okay why without closing your eyes right
with the eyes open you feel this uh you feel this like in a an invisible state but you can really
see in quotation marks you can really see inside the invisible state that there is a light that
enlightens your mind and guides it to have deeper understanding of what happens and conveying these messages
uh in in intellectually i mean in your intellect without uh hearing or seeing something but you feel
that this state is light that conveys this message to you this is what uh you mean sort of i didn't know
in the beginning excuse me in the beginning i didn't understand what was happening but it was it was as
if so first of all let me be clear about something i am aphantasia aphantasia means you cannot imagine
images clearly i can't imagine images clearly it's it's a it's many of us many humans are like this they
they cannot imagine what you are a phantasia a phantasia a phantasia is a phantasia fantasy and a at the beginning
is something that deprives you of this uh quality so you you say that you cannot uh see even even in during the
um uh how you say when we close our eyes and and we try to imagine imagine uh when you do this uh
uh in vision in vision in vision yes when you do this uh you you cannot see images you cannot see black
this is what i am too i cannot see yes black but i i see black i cannot see i i hear other people
uh you know uh saying that i saw this and this and i never the only thing i can see the only thing i
can see is like black winged wings that do like that to me and they are signing it's like oh my god
beautiful something black wings wow and in the in the greek we say the word melas like melatonin means black
and the melas it is analyzed in the words me means no and lao means in the ancient greek see i cannot see
so the heavenly um fields let's say that you cannot see are considered to be the melas world world the melas
so melas so when you see black you are directly connected to this state that you cannot see with
the your eyes you see what i mean so these black wings these black wings because i have experience uh
with the archangel michael myself yes and whenever i i have how you call this i will dialogue is most how
how you call it um just a minute because i know the word but sometimes it's okay just a minute i write it
down
um meditation meditation so when you when i meditate i cannot see images i cannot see nothing but
sometimes i see this open this um wings coming and like as an energy from the black
thing that i see in in front of me coming like that to me and i feel all the messages
um in in my in intellect i mean in my it's like having messages in my mind not hearing something or
seeing something this is a that's why i understand what you say okay so let me i'll continue just a
little bit um so this happens i pause i try to figure out what's going on everything's normal i'm not
hallucinating i'm not using drugs i was just writing right and i can still write if i want
except now i'm not so interested in writing i'm trying to understand what was teaching me just now
and what it showed me which won't necessarily make sense but i'll very briefly tell you
it showed me a dot and if the dot goes just one dot to the side and then one dot to this side
and then back and forth and back and forth and back and forth like this if it does this very
quickly it makes a line so if this if it's doing this which is by the way the thing you were talking
about earlier where it god radiates and he draws back into himself right if it does this very quickly
it just looks like this it's just a line you can't tell if it does this very fast it just looks like
a line and it's white it's light it's doing this with light the dot is light so it does this and it
shows me that a dot can become a line and it also shows me that if the if the dot if the line it is
spinning it becomes a dot right and then a line and then a dot and then a line and then it does it this
way right and it shows me like this and then it does it both ways which that becomes a cross
and then it does it randomly on the plane right and then it speeds that up and that becomes a disc
and then it does it randomly off the plane right and that becomes a sphere of light
and it's trying to explain to me that what i think of as my mind is not mine and it is everywhere
in all of space in all of time in every letter in every aspect of knowledge in history in biology
in art in science in music in dance in dreaming in thought in math all these things they are one
thing and then it it it shows me the sphere and it zooms way out on the sphere and it draws a line
from the sphere very far away let's say many light years away right it makes a line and then it shows
me that if the sphere moves just very slightly this line that is radiating out of it will surpass the speed
of light now this is a very simple way of telling what i saw i cannot explain what it meant
but what i realized in the sphere there is a little bit what happens to the to this ray let us say so
imagine that um you are on the earth right or looking at a star and then you simply move your gaze to
another star right well like your your vision has traversed many light years instantly
right no problem with going faster than light in mind and also eventually it showed me
there's no such thing as time not the way we do
we are intellect the the logos is outside of time it's outside of time and so all of also time is
not complete it's doing this thing it's like it's breathing right so there is with each of this
breathing there's more of the past and there is more of the future the future is not an end it doesn't
have an end yeah something like this in any case so it showed me these things and i was completely
blown away and also i could not speak of them i had to learn how to translate what it showed me into
something i could say and that was very difficult it was much more difficult it was similar to the
difficulty of remembering a dream but it was much more difficult it would show me things that don't
exist in human knowledge and i would have to figure out how to first the first problem was that i could
not hold them in my memory they would show me it immediately fade i would have the insight an insight
so staggering that it could kill me with joy and then immediately gone and so i had to sustain the
insight in my memory long enough to begin to translate it into something
wow and that that so that's a little bit of the story um of what happened in in that time that that is
2002 yeah for nine months yes beginning beginning about when i was conceived in may and ending about
when i was born in december when is your birthday christmas christmas oh another copper corn in my life
wow the most important people in my life are capricorns i rarely get along with them but but when i do get
a lot of them it's amazing last day my mother's birthday what my mother's birthday it was on christmas day
a mother amazing my father also a capricorn on 14th of january my best friend uh mechanical engineer
on the 9th of january and my ex-husband on the 23rd of december it's amazing all the capricorns and very
important people in my life are capricorns i don't know this is a secret tell you secret about capricorn
that the angel showed me and by the way you asked who it was i don't know who it is sometimes i think of
it as the logos i asked it questions um and i can you know we can have another conversation about this
but um so it said things like in egypt they thought of me as thoth in south america i was quetzalcoatl
uh in in christian faith i am like metatron um all you know it was it was like
in in the greek myths i'm hermes uh yes because his thought is hermes
i must tell you that you know i'm i'm sure because it has been revealed to me during meditation and the
shocking experience that it explained to me uh all the bad stages of my life accompanied with
deaths because my life is you know it's like a process through through deaths i lost everybody
in my family except my grandmother and my brother it was amazing and the spirit explained to me why
this that's had to happen had to occur and how they helped me um
developing abilities that are useful in the work i do now it was amazing yes yes we suppose that death
is an impoverishment something is being taken away from us and it would never rare it would rarely occur
to us that the thing that is being taken away something far more profound is being given at the
same time the disappearance over here is the appearance over here right and so you know that is
is such a fascinating con i also have experienced deaths um and i've had experiences where i'm close
to death too but lately i have come to wonder and i have questions for you about this which we can chase
in a moment um i've come to wonder if perhaps we have this very backwards and that um death is like the shining
star and life getting born is actually a problem the thing you want to be afraid of is getting born
that's where you're going to have a lot of trouble right you don't have to be afraid of dying but you
want to be really scared about the possibility of getting born number one
exactly it's like a joke right it's like a comedian right he's like death no problem problem getting
bored now you're in trouble you get a body you're going to have a rough go right have some trouble
but um you're also going to have beauty and humor and play and discovery and anamnesis and love and
all these other things so it's also good but um it occurred to me something very strange a little
while ago after talking with a woman who was recently paralyzed from the from the chest down in a car
red and um we had the most amazing conversation uh and and i learned so much when i'm with her not
necessarily because of what she says but something inside her communicates to me and i can see it gives
me like there's a light that makes me see differently and what i was what i was thinking that's very
surprising to me is that what if as we walk through life we have we grow and we learn
but we also have a sense of what to seek right we have we have both desire affinity and also
disaffinity i don't want that get that away from me right we have this sense of what to seek and what
to avoid yeah and what if our desires and our learning and our love affairs our romances and our tragedies
and all these things what if they are being organized by our death leaking backwards into our life moment
to moment right why what if what if insight and awareness and affinity and disaffinity
are the intelligence of after our death speaking back to us while we are alive it's just a toy i'm not
saying it is this way but it's very interesting to entertain this perspective what do you think yeah
actually when i was 16
i had a experience with my father who had gone away i mean he had passed away
and he's 47 he was 47 and 30 days after his death he came to my dream which was not just a dream
it was a great experience and he said i want to show you to answer all the questions you may have
that's why i came here that's why i came here and i asked him to take me to the place where he was then
to the afterlife place and the amazing thing is that what i saw then it was so
um i mean it was like living it in reality i had an experience so intense that i i i remember myself
uh getting up and trying to find him inside it was actually here we used to have a mirror in the house
here now i have this uh study this uh very nice uh relief and we usually and he appeared from this mirror
and i i i came here in my living room trying to to find here and spot him and he told me even the time
he had he told me that uh it is nearly five o'clock and i i i i'm not allowed to stay longer than well i can
stay here before the sun comes out so when when i got up it was he told me the time five minutes to five
and when i woke up and i got up it was three minutes to five and i was so soft that i could not even
pronounce a word for three hours i was trembling like that and then what i saw then i found them written
in some um plates tablets or fake tablets we call them that are golden tablets that were found on the
chest of deceased people who were considered to be initiates of the last stage and they were going for
divinization you know and they found this and the description of the place where they were going
and it was written on these tablets and it was exactly what i experienced so um the transition between
the two places if you realize that and if and the elepsinian mysteries this is what you you experienced
you went there you saw what happens and then you came back and then you realize that this is
others are this are this is our world and the the others is considered to be uh dark and humid it's
like the home of my mother that i'm inside you know i come into this cave and and i experience the darkness
because there the ethereal fields are light always and here i experience the um
uh the opposites i mean dark and life and light life and death cold and uh heat or whatever words
uh so i have to experience this this love donna you know and when i realize that this experience is not
that pleasant because i come down here to pay off my karmic debts no what i did to others of course to experience
some pleasure because without it the life would be unbearable and we we are um
um we are bestowed how you say um endowed now it'd be down be down in doubt yes we are in doubt we are in doubt
with a gift of feeling the pleasure because the angels do not have
the free will to choose you know to do they don't have free will they they are
uh obedient or uh obedient to the to the laws of the cosmic mind and they perform what they they have
to perform but we have because we come down here in a field of duality i mean with all these opposites
and we have to experience the opposites and we it is up to it's up to us to choose the one or the other
way to to live our life and and we are the ones that express the essence i mean the mind and the purity
of the essence of the essence inside a world of duality and we are honored by the gods for that
because no angel can do that and i think that whatever you describe to me that i find fascinating about
the network and the the the the effort of something that i don't know how you call it to to
um to to um try to affect the minds of the people in order to orient them to other things that are are not
important for their evolution and having them as victims say of um sagging energy from from them
my english is not perfect but you understand what i say
uh so and that only Hermes only Hermes is the one that can establish the connection of this network
in the in the in its right state you understand what i mean we have we have a myth says saying that
Zeus was wrestling with typhoon typhoon typhoon is the the word and the typhoon is the spirit of the evil
okay the of the evil and Zeus was wrestling with it with him and he uh tried he he um
shot him with the bolt of of thunder but it was not enough for Zeus he wanted to also to wrestle
to wrestle with him and then typhoon uh got a scythe scythe that cut the nerves and the tendons then tendons
of Zeus here and here and in the legs and Zeus could not move and then typhoon took Zeus inside a cave
a cave which is called coricion and is um um in in turkey now turkey it was there and it was a cave and he put them there together with the
uh cut uh tendons and only Hermes it's also on this light could reassemble this and could listen to this it's amazing
and and and and and Hermes says i cannot do it by myself i need a human and the human
to his hand it's almost like the strong of a hill the key is trapped again
so that's what he called the earth being a human angel the throwing inasion if the
bush and he had no doubt about what you know i description enough that this is what the meaning of a deer
and beetle is not complete due to mature changes in the past kanav caroushiatsv.com
the word Ega, Ega means goat and Pan is a god like we call it fauna, like the fauna and
the flora, in Greek is Panida, Chlorida. Pan is the god who is the son of Hermes in our mythology.
And Pan means everything. Everything means Pan. This is what actually governs all the universe, Pan.
And Pan, as the son of Hermes, is the one that expresses Logos. Because Hermes is the god
of Logos. Logos means speech, means reason, reason. And also means a part of the whole,
which is, just a minute, I'll tell you, Klasma, Klasma, just a minute. Because I know that
somehow they, I miss, Klasma, Klasma, Metabolism. Fraction, I remembered it. It's a fraction. So
Logos means fraction. Logos means, and also means analogy. You see analogy? It has the
Logos inside. Analogia. So Logos means reason, means cause. What's the reason for that, okay?
means cause? Means cause. Means speech. And also it means fraction. Because you are a fraction of the whole.
Also ratio. Ratio. Ratio. Ration. Rationality. Ratio. What is the word that ends in Pan? That you were...
Agipa. The name of the human. Yeah, what is it? Spell it.
Write down. E, let's say, actually is Alpha and Iota, which is called E in Greek. The letter Alpha and the Iota, the I, together, are called E. So we have these letters in Agipa. E,
G, G is like G, like year, but we pronounce it G, like the Y, like year, okay? E, so you can write Y in order to know the pronunciation. And then again I, E, Pan, P-A-N.
E, Pan. E, Pan. E, Pan is the name of the human that Hermes uses in order to reconnect the cat tendons of Zeus.
There is something that I must share with you privately because we are recording that makes this story extremely important for me. We will talk a bit later.
Yeah, okay.
Okay.
I must, I must share with you about this. This is mind-blowing. I'm with you.
Amazing.
I'm with you.
All right. So, Egypan is, we have Pan, which is the god under whom all the living beings are. And we call Faun, Faun, Faunus, Faunus.
Like a man with a goat's feet and a wreath and-
Yes.
And-
And-
Porns here.
Yeah.
Porns, pipes, yeah, yeah.
Paun.
You know, Paun.
Yeah.
We call it Faun.
Porn.
And here it means, Socrates says that this is an image that shows the- it corresponds the- the body of the animal, the animal part of the body to the lying, lying, when you say lie, when you tell lies.
Hmm.
It is, we call Psevdis Logos, means the- the words you say are- you say lies, you tell lies. So, the lying part, here, and the human part is the truth. And then, but I would say that from the animal state of my existence, because like-
I- I- I have this animal desires inside me, like to eat, to you know, to make- to do- make sex and all this stuff.
All these are animal desires. And from that, you- you- a human part is coming out, which means the more- fine- and- sides, aspects of my existence. Feelings and mind. See, this is a human thing.
Down here is the- the- the- the animal state. And up here is the human state. And the cords here are like antennas that connect me to the upper world. Okay?
Down here. So, I- this is a challenge. Fun is a challenge. From your animal behavior, you have to ex- not ex- or not exert, how you say it, you have to exit, to take out from that, to- to evolve to a- to a better state, like the-
which resembles the human part of your body, which resembles the human part of your body, to focus on the finest qualities of your existence, which is the feelings and the mind.
And then, try to vibrate to such an extent that you can connect to the hands. So, this is the body of Pana. And the flute has seven holes, or seven, you know, which are the seven chakras.
So, it plays the human soul with his hands. And Pana is a shepherd, but the- the- the animals that he herds are goats, are not sheep.
Because the goat has a tendency to- to go up high, like the unicorn.
You see?
Yeah, the goat- the goat- the goat can actually climb up a straight wall. It can go up a- a- a plane.
And these are the spiritual heights. So, the goat is a- a symbol of the human soul that reaches the highest spiritual levels.
You see? And it overcomes the fear of death. And it can never be enclosed inside- how you say there- inside the place where you put the sheep.
Oh, a pen.
Stable.
Yeah, stable or a pen.
A pen?
Okay.
I just want to go back to something very briefly, and then we'll continue.
So, you know, the Capricorn, right? It's a very strange thing. It- it- it's a goat with a fish's tail. It doesn't make any sense, right?
Yes, it does. It does. It does. I will- I will tell you why.
Okay.
Okay.
Because, in order to reach this higher level of spirituality, you have to control your sentimental state and feelings.
And here is Poseidon, and here is the sea inside you. Because you are in the watery state of the feelings. So, your back, your past is full of feelings and up and down and wavy.
Yeah, but you have to control.
Exactly. And then your new state is the goat. You see? You leave back your turbulent sentimental state and you evolve into a spiritual being that reaches the, the, the ridges, the mountain ridges of the spirituality, let us say.
That's beautiful. Yeah. That's beautiful. What I- it's- it's even better than what I was shown, because it- it- often when we speak, it's like, um, I have a piece of something, and then you speak, and now it becomes a whole thing, right?
Yeah. So, in exchange, there's- there's like this remembering, right?
Yeah, and remembering, yes, exactly that.
So, what I was going to say is-
And I find what you say extremely interesting, because it fits, I mean, it, it, it suits all this understanding that I have. So, this exchange, it's another point of view, but actually, we talk about the same thing.
Same thing. It's the same over here. Yeah, the same over here. So, what I was shown was that the cap, the, the goat, the Capricorn goat, it's a goat for climbing in the ocean, and it's climbing in the ocean of the sky.
It's a star goat. The ocean of the upper waters, it climbs in the upper waters, right? And so, that's why it has this tail. But what you have shared, these two things together are much better than either of them by themselves, right?
So, I can tell you, I can tell you something that actually explains exactly what you were told. Now, because the state of the ether in Omer is called ice, and from that we have the word salt, because you write it with A.
A. And the word ice is the calm sea, and this is a symbol whenever Omer says, we have two words for the sea, the word ice and the word thalassa, which means the sea.
And when you talk about the heavenly sea is us. And when you talk about the human down here, the sea of our existence here of the material world is thalassa.
So, when he showed you this, that he tries to climb in the ethereal sea, because when you reach this state, you leave back the turbulent state, okay, this is another thing.
But from the one kind of sea, you go to another kind of sea, from the thalassa, you go to the alas.
Yes, yes, I see.
And in the genitive, we say the sea of the sea, we say ice is alos, and what derives from the alas is alas.
And alas means salt, means alas.
Alas, alatos is, alas in Greek means salt, and the genitive is alatos.
From the word alatos, we have the a, the l, the t, alatos, and we have a sign on the first a, and this sign is pronounced s.
Like super is from the word hiper, with this sign, and the sign becomes s at the beginning of the word, okay.
So we have alatos, and the sign goes s, and salatos, salt.
And that's why you write it with a, because it's the word alatos.
You see?
Yes.
And how you take the salt?
You have very shallow waters, calm waters, sea water, and then with the power of the sun, and then this water evaporates.
And it leaves the salt behind.
So this is the power of my mind, which is solar power, solar power, and here we have the evaporation of the feelings under the light of the sun.
?
Yeah.
luis b
It's very difficult.
It's very difficult.
Tell me, it's a lot.
I'm not going to...
They have only...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
sorry it's fine it's beautiful it's beautiful to hear the music of of greek language so beautiful
yes yes i'm so excited no no it's it's perfect um to hear this this beautiful music of you speaking
this way yeah i love it yeah okay i have many other questions um how are we on time how are
you doing how is your body do you need food water how are you and this lady here is a composer and he was
he he he got the second prize in a universal competition in california
in the year 2021 and 2022 continuously two two times for the composing of music for
orchestras and for
music for poetry that he took important poets greek poets and he made them she made the music and now
for the first time because we are friends i i met here one year ago and he we are you know it's like
you that we met and we said wow and every one of us has a certain uh task to perform in order to
to uh to be able to to re to materialize this unity you know we're more yes again and the first and he
she offered to make a music for some excerpts excerpts of socratic logos from kratylus and it's the first time
that the socratic logos is uh accompanied with music by this composer it is and that's why they
see she wants me to send here some images and all this stuff we went to a studio we we you know
and uh we found people that played with ancient
a musical instruments uh all this music and uh another person that sang very nicely from the
opera album and uh we will have a cd with the socratic logos sang with the music of bg yes
yeah because when you were speaking with her
in my mind i thought oh the beautiful music the music the music of their voices i love the music
this is what i'm thinking while you're speaking
it's amazing and then and then you tell me oh i'm sorry i'm sorry it's like you give me a beautiful
presence and they're like i'm terribly sorry right i'm so sorry to give you this beautiful thing just
forgive me it's hilarious um okay gosh so many uh so many questions so how are you how is your body are
we okay how is your time the only thing i i don't mind uh continuing but i i have to to send her a few
things that she needs now some pictures because she wants to to prepare the cd and she needs things
that i have on my computer so i have to to call you know another person that helps me with the computer
stuff because i'm not that familiar with this you cannot do anything and i would say we we could
if you wish and we could organize another meeting to to say more things because i find this extremely
interesting what you do now and i have this very very positive feeling and an inner call that i should
continue this with you and who knows how we can collaborate or something we can you know to to
find out things that amazing things that have solved us and we live this we experience this it's amazing
and i think because we cannot know everything we have to share experiences and ways in order to
to to to to to find out today the the cosmic truth and when you you enter this
path let us say you step on that you cannot get away i mean it's so
that you cannot go back to your previous way of thinking it's like seeing the light you cannot go back
to darkness it's true we can continue for 10 minutes 15 minutes right and if you wish we i can come back to
you on thursday night i wish because i have i have to go somewhere as soon as i come back maybe it is 11
o'clock at night here or i will tell you so it's good time for you i don't mind if we do it late okay
but today it's gonna be great because uh tuesday monday tuesday and mainly tuesday and wednesday
i prepare my lesson for the pythagoreans it is amazing
and i need so many hours to prepare every the the course every every time and it's amazing because
i cannot find uh some information for the analysis about the analysis uh of this and i have to
to like take from up there what you know and then write the script there are some passages
and then make pictures to convey to them to convey to people uh how i understand things because i cannot
we we don't have comments for it of ancient philosophers they went to the fire you know that
they burned them and we don't have the explanation of the pythagoreans and i i'm so blessed that i can
understand things that other people cannot really realize because and i i take advantage of my studies
the previous studies because as an engineer i understand about numbers
numbers and uh the lesson is the philosophy of the numbers
amazing and and yes exactly and uh tuesday and wednesday i am fully focused on that so on thursday
uh after i come back from i have to go somewhere and after i come back no matter what time it is i
will let you know on your email okay and we can connect we can continue right yes beautiful i would love
that um we should perhaps at some point exchange another way to communicate better than email if you're
comfortable with that so like a phone number or something but um you have my phone number no no
not yet but don't don't say it now you can email it to me or something just because we don't want it
on the recording okay i will give you my phone number and you can i have a viber what's up something
like that yeah yeah absolutely just so that we can be uh in immediate contact through our phones
yes i'm curious so you know one of the things i asked the angel about is is there evil and
the evil evil yeah is there evil and it it was reticent to assert that evil exists it it what it implied was
that um and i'm i'm very interested to have a a longer conversation about this with you but what
it implied was that what we think of as evil is not the presence of something bad it is the absence
of the intelligence and the light of the divine it is something that is missing it's not something that is
there it's something that is missing what do you think um yeah uh you uh because we we live in the
world of the opposites as i or as i said of how you say adversaries a word of adversaries there should be
the opposite of the good here because it's the material world like that right right important reason
however why there should be the evil here is the that this helps me pay off my karmic debts that's big
yes yes if if to you i expect something good to me if i do the you know if i do harm okay there must be
a way to to experience what i did to you in myself and there must be somehow a person to do this for to
me and this is very useful because i learn because i pay for that behavior and i learn not to repeat it
yes because you see whenever i realize that what happens to me is because of the bad behavior of the past
the past okay okay this is an important lesson i take so the evil uh
you know nemesis
hubris hubris summons nemesis
nemesis hubris hubris summons nemesis
uh hubris uh hubris arrogant hubris pride hubris it calls to nemesis and nemesis comes
he said he said yes
calls for nemesis yes exactly nemesis is hungry nemesis is hungry and hubris is a signal like food
over here here's food for you nemesis right i've got lots of food and the emesis is very hungry so he
comes running right okay you know what nemo means nemesis is from the verb nemo nemo means distribute
and nomos is the law is the distribution of justice
so nemesis so nemesis it means distribution of the law when the law is the justice
the cosmic law
balance the restoration of balance
of balance exactly the restoration of balance
the water is going like this the restoration it stills the water when the water is still it is a
perfect mirror of origin origin can shine on the water and it's perfect exactly this is what i say
in my you know lessons exactly this as you said so the the sea surface must be flat and not weighty
in order for the uh for the ray to be radiated backwards otherwise goes no it cannot find its way back
yes yeah so uh the the existence of evil is necessary uh to to teach you things uh that you should avoid and
not repeat them okay and the other thing is um that with this network uh this a thing that tries to
disturb this network and
exploit this and it actually is actually fed from humans negative feelings yes
yes it is it feeds on them especially fear fear hatred anger certain kinds of desire uh selfish
desire right altruistic desire it uh it is like the um the antidote altruistic desire the antidote
yeah exactly exactly so when i care about um my uh fellow humans
when i care about my this is the antidote yeah this is not just the humans the the creatures the animals
everything yes yes yes exactly okay so uh we we schedule this for next thursday yes okay yes very
gladly gladly and uh so focus on whatever you want to ask me and discuss i really enjoy talking with you
um and and uh thursday is uh the best time i have in the the week because it's right after the lesson
and i'm relaxing because the the preparation of the lesson is for you know it takes a lot of energy and
focusing all this stuff for me i understand maria okay uh i have not had joy like this in a long
long time i oh i just love your way in the world your spirit your mind
it's so beautiful so healing so filled with the light that you speak of yeah i'm so grateful
yeah thank you very much and tell me darren uh about your your origin you were born in
uh california in the states i was yes and i've i've never really traveled anywhere i've been in
california my entire life i haven't seen other countries um i have seen where the angels live but
not where the other humans live los angeles yeah that's um so yeah mostly northern california and and
you know i live in san francisco now for almost 40 years um and your parents are americans uh my father's
parents were from sicily and he grew up on the east coast in brooklyn uh and my mother's parents
were french canadian oh really just like we you know people in my ancestors you know sicily are greeks
you know that i know this is the origin that will you see common things yeah it used to be called
uh what you know you studied hebrew yeah but i studied hebrew but the angel taught me
it was the angel i studied it with and i learned gemetria i learned gemetria with angel
the new the number gemetria verse right how you spell it you matter a you
this is gemetria oh how how do you spell it this is a hebrew the jewish letters it's also greek greek
also has gemetria it's g-e-m-e-t-r-i-a it means the numbers of the letters the numeric
g-e-m-e-t-r-i-t-r-i-r-e-t-r-i-w-e-t-r-i-t-r-hi-front- dapat it
t crowded hebrew you studied
with the angel yes the angel
he taught you um the letters only or some words the letters and the numbers that are with the
letters and also words and then of course i play i read some hebrew i learn on my own a little bit
uh but yeah it used the letters to teach me principles and the meanings of numbers like in
pythagoras the meanings of numbers the meanings of numbers yes like what you told me uh looks like
sounds like the pythagoreans you know it's yes it is it's the same it is the same basic thing
it's just it's the true branch of the same tree right yeah and there's much to to be to be learned
here because i can't tell whether it seems like the greek predates the hebrew it's i'm not sure the
hebrew at least not the written hebrew i don't think it predates the greek but this is a complex thing
i just have one simple quick question there is this madman he's a classicist he reads ancient greek
his name is almond hillman you ever heard this name
we will talk about it further later no yeah he's a madman but we can learn something even from people
who are um spinning yeah yeah and what's your last name uh i shouldn't say it here because i use a pen
name but i will tell you when you send me your phone number i'll tell you okay okay so i will write
my phone number here you have the what's up what's up what do you have yes yeah i have whatsapp signal
telegram whatever yeah okay so what's up and you have viber too viber not viber i have boxer
voice no but i have whatsapp it's okay yeah we can whatsapp yeah okay all right so i'll write down
um now i will give you my phone number so next time we can send messages there yes okay yes all
blessed to see you maria i hope things go well with the composer that's a wonderful uh connection
and i can't wait to see the results i also i want to get a copy of your book so when you send me your
phone number please send me your website as well i was there once but i couldn't find the link
so okay yeah yeah because we had many problems with this stuff and it was oh uh finally it works
so we can uh you can uh you can it it's gonna be very useful for you i'm sure you will find things
there yeah i think so too you will you know expand your horizons with this i'm sure you will find
it's okay okay nice i will i will send you my phone number right that way bye have a wonderful rest of
your evening i look forward to thursday thank you thank you bye bye bye bye bye
