Hello, everybody. Welcome. Monday afternoon. It's funny. I heard Kurt Gimungal use a very
peculiar phrase, which he went on to explicate a little bit in a, as usual,
accessible, profound, brilliant way. It's funny. I'm looking at a gopher and it's
looking at me what with its left eye. I'm standing right near it. It's looking at me
with its left eye again, turned its face all the way to check, to check me out. But
also, whether an animal or a human being uses its left or right eye to explore the world with,
or, you know, obviously they're both linked. Okay, this turns out to be a really important
metaphor. So I've studied hemispheric lateralization for a long time. Prior to Ian McGillchrist's work,
I was already deeply aware of this problem and I didn't so much learn it from reading books on
neuroscience. I had non-ordinary assistance. Effectively, in so much as I can understand
what happened and refer to it in any kind of language, which pretty much doesn't work.
Apparently, what it seemed like, presuming that anything can seem like what I'm about to say,
I was being educated in real time every day by non-human intelligence and that's where I learned
to be really interested in the differences between the hemispheres on the surface of the brain
and then maybe particularly also the hippocampus and the corpus callosum. Corpus obviously means
body. I'm not sure what hippo means in camp. They mean things, these words, these word fragments.
They mean things. So I become very interested in them because it was shown to me that they were
crucially important not merely in the development of our species as if that could be mere. Language
is really weird, not merely in a universal sense, but yeah, not merely in the development of our
species but in the development of each of our own minds and lives because it was strongly
suggested to me that from the time we are conceived until the time we die, we are uniquely
wandering through the terrain of reiterating the phases of the development of human minds over the
history of our species and perhaps before. There was a long time ago, what, I don't know, 110,
130 years ago or something, a man who suggested, and you know it looks compelling on the surface,
right, suggested that the embryology of human beings recapitulates the development of the
forms of life on earth. So it basically from conception to birth or conception to some portion
of embryology or what you, embryogenesis where what you have is you know, a highly developed,
effectively human fetus at some phase in the development inside the womb. The process apparently
comes to a conclusion but doesn't. And this is one of the most staggering, I want you to imagine
for a moment, let's not be too concerned with whether his perspective was true or not.
Imagine that there's something very important we can see together from supposing that perspective,
right? As I understand it,
in the strangely materialistic, let's see, in the strange physical materialism and
eliminative materialism, bias library of modern science, and it's not too hard to see how you
get there, right? Because you need to know that's a night heron. Oh, I didn't mean to correct you.
I'm sorry. These are quite rare. It's very uncommon to see them. This one has learned that people
feed ducks here and that draws fish to the surface. Right, right.
It's very uncommon to be this close to one of these birds. I think it has
somehow learned either to not fear the humans.
Oh, I see what's going on. Someone's been putting out seed
and it's interested in food on the land. It's uncommon.
Well, maybe it just came up there to take a dump because that's what it did.
And if effectively that's something like a don't poop in the water, right, idea.
Which I think is probably true. It's a dumb thing to poop in the water you eat out of.
You know, unless you're human, in which case that's the first thing you do,
especially as a society, right? You do that and then you charge people to fix the problems,
right? It's an economic benefit. And the same thing goes for ideology.
All right. So recursive, reiterative embryogenesis, right? So it's like
this is an expansion of the original idea, which is just
reiterative embryogenesis. The embryo goes through the phases of the development of
complex animals on earth, right? It sort of starts out as a
a polywog and the idea was that
if one sort of sliced up the time frames of the embryo's genesis, what you would see
are images of the newly emergent complex form in the environment over evolutionary time,
right, from the beginning to now. But what I'm going to talk about and go beyond very quickly
is just something more interesting, right? That idea is very important. It doesn't matter if
it's true. It's important to be able to think and imagine and see this way. Because there are many
features of nature that aren't explicitly yes or no. Yes, it's true or no, it's not.
In fact, we will quickly understand, if we just take a look at human cognition,
that whether yes, it's true or no, it's not depends sort of on where in the sphere of
possibilities of angles of concern, right, angles of purpose, where in that sphere you're coming
from and why. Your purpose will determine how you read the data, especially if you're
if you're biased to seek a specific conclusion such as, well, there's no evidence of that,
therefore it's impossible, right? We hear this kind of talk all the time about things in physics.
It's impossible to travel instantaneously between two planets. What's impossible is that anyone
could know that, especially now on earth. We think that what we've discovered, we treat the field
of knowledge generally as if what we have discovered is a complete guide to everything,
which cannot be the case. This is like a child presuming that because they form the concept
associated with human silverware, right? They finally understood the idea of, oh, you hold
this thing, it's made in a factory, it's made of metal usually, and you manipulate the food with it
to facilitate easy eating, easy un-messy eating. Imagine a child who, this is their first,
which is ridiculous, wouldn't happen. This is their first concept and they now think,
I have mastered the universe. This is how our species treats knowledge, generally,
or at least a broad cohort of the population and scientists often speaks as if this is the case,
which is bogglingly idiotic. So let's imagine that a reiterative embryogenesis is happening,
or that something very closely resembling it is happening, and then instead of just reading
the sort of evolutionary record from start to now, what is happening is that the embryo is
actually testing the environment and temporality and adjusting its development to those signals,
such that it's generally reiterating the history of evolution of animals, but it's also
leaping forward into the future, sensing that and incorporating that information somehow
into its developing form. In a sense, you could imagine that the embryo is attempting
in a sort of a heartbeat fashion to go evolutionary history, close future, medium future, far future.
Then back, it gets that data, encodes that into the next query for evolutionary history,
establishes form inside itself, and then goes forward, reads the future, and includes that
information to whatever degree it can. So that's recursive, reiterative embryogenesis.
Now, I can't remember exactly why these two words are used, but once the
embryo's first cell, I used to have this slogan, remember your first cell back in the 80s when
I started studying biology and had my mind completely blown out of its sockets, because
minds have sockets, don't you know? There's the gametes, or the gametes, I think it's gamete.
It's G-E-M-E-T-E, which are the egg cell and sperm cell, and the politics of how they meet
is staggeringly beautiful and complex, because what definitely doesn't happen
is that the sperm cells have a race and the best one wins, like it's a competition.
That is not what is going on there. What is going on there is hypersensing at the
scale of cell cohorts on the side of the sperm, and extreme hypersensing on this case of the egg,
such that very subtle, extremely subtle fields of information are exchanged, modulated.
The sperm cells do not race, they draft. Drafting is a situation where
the cohort can promote someone to the front, so to speak, can promote, again, a smaller cohort
of sperm cells are promoted to positions of high opportunity for fertilization,
and then when one or more sperm arrive in the proximity of the egg, the egg can modulate
something resembling an electromagnetic manifold to apparently participate in selection of nearby
sperm. Now, it probably doesn't have a long time window that it can do that. That's probably a
process where if you get four or five sperm in near proximity, the egg can exert a selective
situation on them, as I understand it. And once again, I'm not trying to say exactly what is
true here, and neither am I trying to make things up. I'm proposing a theoria, if you will,
a useful as-if perspective, though I'm pretty sure there's some evidence for this particular argument.
And then so immediately after penetration, what happens is that the, all right,
so the sperm are driven by a spindle, and that spindle, which is essentially you could think
of it as the motor, or more organically, the legs, right, of the sperm, what it runs with,
what it uses to run. That spirochete-like element could also be thought of as a racehorse.
That spindle pushes the little bundle of
potent, a little potent package that gets delivered through the egg's membrane. That spindle is formed
of mitochondrial DNA. In fact, it's really just a strand of mitochondrial DNA. And
in that sense, it is an organism unto itself. It is effectively the DNA of the mothers,
the whole matrilineal line, all the way back to mitochondrial eaves, supposedly.
That's the DNA that is the engine that pushes the sperm to meet the egg, so to speak, draws them
together. And that's a profound temporal event. That's the birth of a universe. This is not,
if you want to understand something about the nature of understanding, then these really
foundational things like, what's going on between these eggs and sperm? This is a topic that won't
fail to enlighten you about almost anything. It's a hyper topic, right?
So, a sperm hits the egg. The little packet buries itself in the cell wall. Right on the other side
of where it landed, the spirochete, the mitochondrial racehorse, is still alive and sort of wiggling
and trying to, you know, do something useful. One imagines that the packet in the mitochondria
are in intimate communication, or the packet in the spirochete, the packet in the tail,
such that, in a way, this might be the organism's first experience of the loss of a companion.
Right? And a lot of people feel as if, this, I've never noticed this about to say before,
in fact, the companion loss. I've spoken of that, but not the implications.
So, your original, imagine that the masculine aspect of your original body had two parts,
and the feminine aspect was like a billion lunar cycles of information, in other words, the egg.
Many people suggest or say that they have the feeling that there used to be a twin,
that the other part of them wasn't born. And in some cases, this is blatantly a fact.
Right? There may have been a companion embryo that was aborted, or perhaps they are remembering
something. Perhaps there was a previous child who didn't get born, and there's structured memory
about that associated with the womb, in the same way that children's rooms are highly
in-charactered. Each child who arises in the womb, we should imagine in-character is the womb,
so that the next child grows up in their older siblings, in a library of their older siblings
transformations, relationally, with found intimacy here, because the child in the womb
are essentially one being. And it needn't be highlighted that every human being that we know of,
maybe two or three exceptions, or some small number of exceptions, test tube children,
was first an organ in the body of a female. So, you know, any attempt to denigrate women
is not only wildly unfounded, but openly ignorant.
All right, so many humans have the sense of a lost sibling, and I'm sure there are many
interesting and useful psychological explanations for this, but nobody ever thought that perhaps
the packet of sperm remembers its traveling companion, the one who brought it to the egg,
and got it there on time, and in the right situation, and everything was perfect,
but then that being that is the packet
was parted from its traveling element at the cell membrane, and had to leave it,
and probably observed was in touch with it over the span of time
after which that element is deceased. It essentially had to watch its horse die,
and that companion aspect turns out to be really important in ways that today I'm probably
not going to get to, although I might. So, some chemistry changes in the egg cell then,
and these are things we should have been taught as children, right? The fact that I had to
live to be 40 before, I had to have a non-human intelligence direct me through human literature
to understand these matters, and to understand them with reverence, right? Not merely with
abstract efficacy, no, with reverence, because these matters are holy, they are sacred matters,
not because we make them sacred, they are intrinsically sacred matters,
which is part of why they comprise hypertopics.
So, once the desired sperm of what can be chosen from, supposedly of the local sperm,
has successfully penetrated the membrane, and I'm sure there's a word for that membrane,
a technical term that I don't know. The egg locks the gate, right? The egg undergoes
some physical changes at the molecular chemistry level, I think, and the gate's locked.
A future sperm will bounce off.
Of course, there are, it is sometimes true that twins, there are cases of triplets and so forth,
right? Win, and that might have to do with the mechanics of the timing
of sperm arrival, or the mechanics of the eggs, the temporal interval over which the egg locks the
gate, so to speak. So that happens, and then I think it's called a blastocyst, is formed,
and that's going to become a human being, but it's going to go through a lot of complex transformations
over time. And this isn't human time, nine months at the scale of the cell,
that might be long enough to reiterate the history of the universe, especially if
you have an exponentially growing colony of cells, which is what the egg effectively becomes.
And by exponentially, it just means two cells, the egg splits into the vegetal pole and the animal
pole, I believe that's what it's called. That's the first evidence of binary polarity. People
will argue like there's no such thing as binaries, wrong, wrong. Transferring their existence in
various ways to category theory can get you in trouble under some circumstances, often it's crucial.
You know, is that thing boiling hot or not, right? That's an important distinction.
Am I on fire or not, right? There's lots of binary
features of our lexical and categorical consciousness that are crucial to preserve,
and I'm going to be so bold as to suggest that man and woman are one of them.
Egg and sperm, not the same thing. You know, you can scream at sperm all you want and tell them
they don't carry the masculine, right? It is true that they carry both, right? They're propelled by the,
you know, the mitochondrial DNA. And the packet varies in its content, I believe.
I don't think they, do they only contribute? I can't remember,
shit, that's really bad. I can't remember the contribution of the sperm in terms of the chromosomes.
Okay, maybe you'll have to add that in the notes embarrassingly.
In any case, you get the animal pole and the vegetal pole, and the egg
is not the contribution of the man. The sperm is not the contribution of the woman.
Male and female are actual biological categories, and the fact that there's a little blur around
the edges, notwithstanding, these are crucial categorical foundations that must be preserved
in my perspective. And I'm, I can't wait for the attacks. And I'm actually happy to have the
conversation because how we speak of gender generally, first of all, shouldn't be policed
or cancel, you know, cancel culpable, vulnerable.
But we could speak of it in a broad variety of useful ways, unless
some cohort thinks they have the right to make universal declarations about it,
even to overturn the fundamental polarity. They're in structured in physical biology.
Right? This is saying, you know, there's no tree there.
In any case, you get the animal and the vegetal pole,
and this goes on to further divide into pluripotent cell structures. These are cells that can
become any of the cells in the body. And by the way, that technology is pretty fucking incredible.
How, we should also notice that this is what nature is doing, right? Nature is using a super
position to generate a specific array of sub positions. And the super position is
superior to all, all possible productions at the scale of physical representation,
or at the, at the, in the register of physical representation.
And so I think those two polarities essentially become the animal and vegetal, and I'm not
positive about this, but I think they become the, they're sort of related to outside and inside
physically. The vegetal pole may be the inside, if I remember correctly, producing the organs and
bones and such. But I'm, I'm actually not a biologist, and it's been many years since I've
even had the urge to think about these things, like probably 20 or 30. In any case, you see here
the beginnings of bipolarity. Another thing that's always hilarious is when
we are bilaterally comprised animals, in the sense that
it says if we're split down the middle by a line,
and we have a right hand and a left hand and a right foot and a left foot and a right eye and
a left eye and a right ear and a left ear, right nostril, left nostril, right ovary, left ovary,
right lung sac, left lung sac. And I think it's actually important that only one side of our body
contains, so to speak, using the container metaphor in English, which I must trust, the heart.
And we associate our heart with emotions, and that's partly because our heart changes
when our emotional manifold transforms. Our heart changes. We feel it change.
Now, I'm sure people could form good arguments against that, but, you know, physicalist arguments.
So, the beginnings of this bi-hemispheric situation lie in the egg cell, right, and it's
first division. It forms a polarity, and that polarity develops over time. And, by the way,
I don't know how it is with your ears, but your right eye and your left eye, the right eye is,
I think it's a doubled situation, let me explain. So, the right eye probably belongs more to the
left hemisphere, just as the right hand, right foot, and so forth do. But it appears from what
we've been able to learn by mechanical study that both eyes are split so that the right half of both
eyes belongs to the left hemisphere and vice versa. Now, that's a really interesting arrangement.
Apparently, both aspects need both eyes, or rather,
the possibility of losing an eye has to be adjusted for by giving both hemispheres access to both.
So, you have probably noticed, as a human being, at some point in your life, whether or not you're
still aware of it, that food tastes and feels different on different sides of your mouth,
and probably in the middle.
People who are not right handers,
and to some degree, that is imposed on us, but there is a relatively natural
inclination underneath those impositions. I'm not sure if it's for the right hand,
by the way. It could well be left hand early in life, right hand later in life,
and I wouldn't be surprised to discover that particular situation like obtains.
So, you can see that, now look, underneath, let's be really clear, most people who haven't
really looked carefully at a diagram of the brain, they will imagine that the right hemisphere is the
right side of the brain, and the left hemisphere is the left side. Ordinarily, what is being referred to
is a layer of tissue on the surface, comprising kind of a hat, if you will,
with two elements and connective tissue between them, that's the corpus callosum.
And those hats are maybe, I don't know, I don't know exactly. Let's think like a half to three quarters
of an inch in thickness, and they're wrinkled, and the wrinkling
gives you more surface area, like a lot more. The wrinkles that we see in preserved brains
deprived of the dura, which is the circulatory tissue that feeds them blood, I think,
on the very surface. And I have actually seen these things first hand, like I know they exist,
because sometime in the mid 90s, I went into an operating room with neurosurgeon Francis Conley
at Stanford, and observed brain surgery for eight hours, just stood right next to her while she
opened up someone's head, and pointed out the various features of the anatomy.
Which I was super fascinated by. Kind of a dangerous and crazy situation would actually
took place there, but that's a different story. All right. So the cortexes are the structures on
the top of the brain, essentially, and they form a kind of a pecan shape from the side, right?
A crescent, they meet in the center, and they're subject inside the skull to
a kind of a twisting called Yakovlevian torque, I believe. I learned this term from
E. A. McGillchrist. And that means that the brain case itself is sort of twisted to one side.
I can't remember if it's clockwise or counterclockwise, but I think it's clockwise,
meaning that the left hemisphere has more tissue in the front, and the right hemisphere has more in
the back. Yes, I think that's correct. And it's the frontal cortex, right, where representational
cognition mostly lives. This is probably a relatively new feature in the evolution of our
species, and particularly the ways it has developed over the past, say, eight to 10,000 years, which
is very brief time in geological and evolutionary history. You're talking about a microsecond or
something. And I would argue we're not... In order to develop the left hemisphere intelligently,
an animal like ours would need outside guidance. Left to its own devices, representational cognition
will destroy all life. Without... I would argue that if we could look at a million planets where
creatures somewhat like us develop representational cognition, those unguided by other intelligences
would fail at a probably 90% rate right around the time they start being able to make bombs,
and very, very few of them would survive. And then there would be some that had...
generated an apocalypse, but some humans lived, or some of the intelligent... Right, I'm sorry.
Some of the representational cognitives lived and preserved the stories of what happened,
but you'd still have the same problem. In the same way, children won't develop
representational cognition at all, if raised by animals. And there's only a certain phase of
their development within which they can... They are inclined to be able to develop it, right?
Wild children brought home from the wilderness can't learn English and don't care about the bizarre
rituals and absurdities of society. Objects, rituals, and absurdities. Behaviors, objects,
rituals, and absurdities. They are animals, mostly. And so you can see that in our species,
there's a specific phase of our development in our own lives, in my life and your life.
We went through this phase, and it's important to understand that we were recapitulating,
to imagine, I should say, that we were recapitulating the developmental history of our species,
as we developed from infants to wherever we are now.
There was a phase during which we were inclined to be able to be in language and
enculturated. And if we were in language and enculturated by an actually advanced intelligent
people, then we would acquire their skills, defenses against ignorance and coercion,
and all the broad arrays of intelligences that humans are fully capable of developing
in an intelligent context. Unfortunately, nearly zero of the children will find themselves born into one.
So we're born into toxically deformed contexts. And that's crippling, though many of us
eventually develop a sort of a two-mind system, right? And of course, it's much more than that. We
have a secret mind, a secret plus companion's mind, a companion's mind, a social mind,
and a public mind. And many people, perhaps, don't differentiate between those. We also
have business and private and all these other kinds of little sub-mind compartments, so to speak.
The poor human children. So on planets where there's no actual intelligence and the human's
break, right, the representational animal breaks off from nature, which is a source of infinite,
infinitely diverse natural intelligences and is probably the telephone. If you got to call mom
or dad and you need to send a signal, the way to do that is through nature. So if you send the signal,
for example, let's say you have a species that doesn't realize nature is the phone,
so they start tearing that stuff down and burning it up and making little representations of
rectangles in banks and things. They may think that doesn't send a signal, but everything in
time space gets the signal, especially all the creatures on your home planet and all the ecologies,
and that's the worst, effectively the worst signal you could possibly send.
The best signal you could send is, ah, hello. We recognize that we belong to an ancient family
and we are calling because we are in trouble. That would be a decent signal. Of course, you
have to be careful. Time space is a lot like a forest. If you start yelling, help, help,
then you might attract predators. So you need to tailor the signal and the way it is sent
in such a way as to produce good recipients, right, and to select for good recipients.
Desirable recipients, this is another way of saying it, or beneficent or altruistic participants.
And the altruistic participants don't tend to be highly military, but they're very powerful.
They're powerful for a weirder way than the military participants. They're powerful because
every being that ever existed is on their side, right, like the entire line of your
ancestors would stand up in their graves and cheer if a truly beautiful altruistic act or situation
were accomplished. I mean, this is what the idea of triumph actually means. It doesn't mean
perverse incentive zero-sum games. That is not what it means. And there are intelligences
even within us, right? The human cognition is sort of a mirror of the intelligences of time
space. What you can find in there, you can find in time space. So you can find things like
the misbehaviors that we that terrify and horrify us. And you can also find intelligences inclined
and empowered to do, to perform astonishing, beautiful, restorative, noble, honorable, dignified
situations, right, transformations of situations.
All right, the hemispheres. So
here's where I'm going to, I'm going to branch here,
probably, unless there's something else I need to say about the hemispheres. So first of all,
normally they're both active and they both contribute to consciousness. But the representational
aspect is trained to dominate our lives and bodies, our nervous systems, and so forth to a degree.
In childhood, as we undergo in language and in culture. And there's a lot of different
ways to look at these processes and many useful and intelligent purposes that can direct our
explorations. It's not that the right hemisphere is good and the left is bad. It's something far
weirder than that. It's that the, okay, well, there's different ways of thinking about it. One is just that
as, you know, McGillchrist characterizes
McGillchrist characterizes the right hemisphere as the master
and the left hemisphere as the emissary.
And tell, you know, spins the tail. There's a similar, I think, I mean, what I was shown was
that Cain and Abel in the Bible represent this. Though it's very confusing now.
It's confusing because there's, it's so much more complex than I originally was able to understand.
But McGillchrist paints it as if
over the developmental time of our species, and particularly over the recent span,
recent being maybe 25,000 years, just kind of a random number there, but not too random.
The emissary became so powerful that it largely occluded the master. And what is the master?
Is this some kind of slave? You know, no, no, no, no. It's not that at all. It's,
you would probably prefer not to have to drive your car with a foot, right? And your pinky is
super important on your hand and enables many features. You can get along without it.
But what you actually need is a palm, right? You need a place that unifies the members.
And you also need a wrist, right, that leads upscale to the directing intelligences
that animate the members according to purposes.
So what you wouldn't want is your hand leading your body around.
What you want is your mind leading your body around. And even then, you're in danger if the
representational aspects dominate for lots of reasons. They're super powerful and useful tools,
but it's like being dominated by a tool. And you actually need your heart and your dreaming mind
and your creativity, your playfulness, your intelligence, all of these things are crucially
important contributors to the context of consciousness. So if you just become very clinical,
then you're likely to end up in a situation with perverse incentives and zero-sum games.
And you're even likely to end up in that situation at the register of yourself,
right? Like your own psyche and stuff. So the master in this model, maybe master's the wrong word,
I would just like the unified, what the tree of unified intelligences of origin or something like
this, which is what I imagine the right hemisphere to resemble.
They must not be encompassed, silenced, or have their resources shunted off into
left hemispheric styles of living and thought and so forth. Or rather, I mean the way that I think
of it is like the left hemisphere, the right hemisphere is origin and the left hemisphere
is the laboratory. So the right hemisphere is memory in the sense of evolutionary filial
originary intelligences and so forth. But the left hemisphere is the representation of those.
So the left hemisphere is a bit more like a museum where the old skills and abilities are
there in structure, but dead inside kind of. And the tools are very powerful,
but you don't want your right hand going around attacking your body,
the universe, the world, the sun, the earth, right? We're processing them either.
So there's this crazy imbalance in us and it becomes, the ironic thing is
McGilchrist and I both were aware that we could use the tools
to serve the original purposes of the trustworthy aspects
of our consciousness and psycholinguistic concerns.
Just need to test my mic here. Test, test.
Okay. Now,
there's a whole long story here about
the strange evidence for the conflict and the problems that arise from it. So the idea of
rectitude, correctness, the idea of being right, getting it right,
all of these have to do with the predilection in conceptual awareness
for the structured aspect. One of the things the right hemisphere does rather adequately or even
in a very profound way is to interrupt narratives that have gone sideways and are starting to become
religions in the left hemisphere's sort of way of life.
Um,
there's so much to say here. The circle is probably the most primordial form
in terms of forms. The angle is also primordial but to a much lesser degree.
If an angle is part of a triangle, if an angle is a radian, that's super important to darn near everything.
I'm just watching two young boys, right? And they're just like stomping away
on the ground and they're really interested in what they're stomping on.
And this I do find very peculiar. I mean, this looks to me like kind of a failure on the part of
the parents, but uh, one of the little boys after stomping away madly and then looking at
the bottom of his shoe for evidence of successful stomping. He said, I want to destroy more.
So they went looking for more creatures to obliterate.
I wonder what the right hemisphere's role in that is, if any. That might be like the kind of the
evidence of the, uh, ascending domination of left hemisphere-like features.
You see, there's no connection to the life forms there. And it should be relatively obvious
that at least at the scale of cohorts, right, our society, civilizations, corporations, and so forth,
we perform transactions in the biosphere as if nature doesn't matter, is dead inside, is just
there to be converted to commodities and representations of value or power or longevity
and so forth. And so huge problems here.
Yeah, vast trouble. Now, I'm not sure what's going on in the little boys. They're early in
their developmental cycle, but by three, they've already been thoroughly infected with
representational cognition. And by the way, what did I mean earlier when I said on worlds
where the development of Repcog is not intelligently guided by external intelligences or symbi, you
know, think of the concept of symbiosis, um, the symbiogenesis of human representational cognition
or, excuse me, of the alpha representational on a planet like ours, whatever that creature might
look like. I would suggest that it's very likely that in the early development,
and throughout perhaps the first, I don't know, three, 400,000 years of our development,
we were associated with non-human intelligences, possibly a broad array of types of them.
But it's not my goal here to go on and on about that topic. I just want to point out
that imagine children, imagine a science fiction story and what happens to the children
in a situation where
right around the age of those boys I just saw, right, right around that age,
all parents disappear. So they've been infected with representational cognition
and they're going to continue to develop it but without the guiding intelligence
of experienced beings, okay, experienced at what? Experienced at having minds and forming minds
both individually and together, which is the most important thing you can do. If you're not
doing that. Now there are still helpers here on earth even if there are none in the sky,
right, none in the beyond of time space, none in time space itself.
There are, the earth is a library of anciently evolved symbiotic intelligences
and we can contact and learn from them because we are made of them and quite possibly we were
made for them. The humans turn out to be something resembling the shepherds of life on earth whether
or not that was a God given role. Because of our prowess with technology we will decide
at least for the near term evolutionary future if life continues and also which lives continue.
In other words which forms, right, not necessarily by, you know, looking at a list and going,
okay, let's, you know, let's preserve the tigers and the platypus. The mantis shrimp, yeah, okay.
But we have this power because of the decisions we make
at the scale of our societies and civilizations.
Have a determinative influence on the future.
Left and right.
Left-handers are much more commonly ambidextrous and have certain tasks that they prefer to do
with each hand. You can see that the idea of preference for handedness has a much deeper
expression in left-handers where not only are they often ambidextrous and or partly ambidextrous,
there are certain tasks that they prefer one side to work with. It seems hard to imagine,
there are probably benefits to both, but it's hard to imagine that there are profound benefits
to favoring a single hand. Evolutionarily, developmentally,
all kinds of features and perspectival
orientations are important and usually if you have more options
you're better off, especially if you can combine them.
I never intended to,
it's so funny what happens when I, when I start to make a recording because
sometimes it's usually I have a specific idea in mind.
Often what happens is that I get carried away with the preamble because
there's some interesting sights to see in thought and imagination in that direction,
so I get really excited about the preamble. The actual thing that started this recording for me
today was a topic that I've only been relatively recently introduced to.
Now obviously, I grew up in California and my parents were progressive liberals for my
young life and instilled liberal values in me. What do liberal values really mean?
They mean, so progressive means we want a better future for us and our children
that is, that the capitalizes on the principles of human cooperation and equality,
I mean something like that. Equality where? Equality before the law and before the treatment
in and of society. Also privacy, fundamental important human virtue, privacy. Fuck that up,
you're screwed, you're going to get totalitarian societies in the next 10 seconds.
So it's not just the freedom to speak in public, it's the freedom to speak unobserved in private
and also the freedom to live unsurveilled.
Now the left and the right may share some portion of both of those values,
whatever the left and the right refer to, presuming that the political left and the
political right refer to actual things, which is a pretty big presumption especially today
when nearly any word you can select no longer refers to actual things and
my son's nine-year-old niece turned to him yesterday and said,
I don't think we're living in reality anymore after seeing a horse with a beard
in the park, a real one.
And I don't think that the horse was actually the cause of the comment.
I'm not sure, I honestly, look I, I don't even know what to say, I'm fairly articulate,
I know many other articulate minds and I've listened to many of them
and one of the most commonly said things today is I can't make sense of anything anymore.
Nothing makes sense, identity doesn't seem to exist, the categories are all exploded and blurry
and being manipulated on purpose for a variety of Psyops and so forth.
And I think a lot of that's true, in fact the Psyop part is really for sure true.
And what we're not realizing on the left, which you know like I said I was,
I was lefty most of my whole life no longer. I'm not sure what I am but
the forces which have captured the left look to me to be,
there's a few gems in there, it's not all poison but that looks really Psyoppy and similarly the
forces that have captured the right look really Psyoppy but one of them is less likely to get us
killed right away and it isn't the left. Oh my goodness what are you?
Okay this is really something, what are you? I guess you are a form of carp?
Carp are gathering together right next to turtles gathering together
in what must be either sunbathing or premading behavior or both what must be.
See how the left hemisphere works, it must be this or that. On the other hand you can't just
get rid of binaries. It's perfectly, I just want to make one statement before I continue.
There's no problem with human beings inventing new territory or exploring gender.
I probably, I mean there's certain places I would personally draw the line
but I wouldn't try to draw it for others much at all. What's not cool is people telling us
there's no such thing as women and then demanding that we have the same that if we don't
you know if we don't lock step with their category transforms we are bad or fascists or
shouldn't be allowed to speak or etc etc etc. Shouldn't be engaged in conversation and so on.
Or that we would be punished for saying something like
there are primarily two genders associated with humans. The things we have invented at the outskirts
are not, are experimental and it is not incumbent on anyone
other than those who wish to, to assert them as facts.
I'm probably getting some mud on my face here
but that's okay. I'm willing.
So this right and the left thing, all right, here's the actual problem.
When I was a kid I was very patriotic. I thought this was the greatest country on earth.
America the brave, the brilliant, the beautiful, the true. I don't think there was ever anything
quite like that going on but there were phases where it was pretty good and it certainly wasn't
the worst. Now when you have a group of monsters the fact that you've been enslaved by the best
monster of the group doesn't help a lot because the monster is still going to be doing horrible
things in which you will become complicit. And until we actually develop even on a small scale
of 10 to 15 people something resembling an intelligent collective upon whose purposes and
perspectives and orientations we may lay our trust with relative sureness
until we establish something that's intelligent. We also, we are associated with cultures and
societies and corporations and shit based on where we're born and when we're born.
So these things are inherited in a way. We didn't build the societies we live in. They landed on us
and we don't have to do this but if we're not going to do it we have to do something better.
We can't just go do something worse or go do something ridiculous though you know sometimes
doing something ridiculous in the name of making a statement can be useful.
But my point is this,
over the ensuing years after my childhood when I learned more about war, corporations, technology,
ecological devastation, prison hearing, propaganda and all of these things it became very clear to
me that my country was not good. It was not a country I would agree with. And of the two branches
of politics if they're conceded as a binary basically described as quote democratic and
quote conservative or democratic progressive or conservative and or with some liberal you know
in there somewhere whatever the hell that means and then eventually things like libertarian
and all the little sub chunks right. I always identified as a liberal democrat whether or
not I participated in the voting process which is such a sham that it's almost like I don't even
know. Do I want to put my face in a sewer and then you know how can I possibly vote for things that I
have no you know. That I did not myself compose nor did I agree to compose with others and to
which I and my children and everyone I know will be subject. How can I that just seems fundamentally
bad unless you have an intelligent voluntarily organized society the concept of democracy
is impossible to implement. What you get are very complex thris like diseases masquerading as virtuous.
It's bath time for the ducks here. They're having a little group bath.
You know recently someone asked me to comment on the situation between Israel and Palestine
and I'm just making that bookmark. Whatever the hell became of the political parties in the
United States both of them descended into open insanity. This like straight up power play nonsense
rival risks dynamics bullshit lying propaganda controls favor trading back room dealing
underhanded conservation of assets across generations of wealth crimes straight up
fucking rape murder drug dealing you name it all that shit is going on.
And the organs particularly the military bureaucratic prison and political organs of our nation
are mostly counterfeit intentionally intentionally counterfeited.
And there doesn't seem any possibility of correcting them.
Though we'd probably be wiser to retrofit them than to just dispose of them wholesale presuming
that even something like that is possible of course something like that will happen if there's
a major war. So but here's the thing I understand the history of my nation to some degree at least
you know the span from the before of colonization to the waves of colonization that took place
and also many of the complexities of that process that are not ordinarily
to common people. I know something about history I'm not an expert
and I'm not claiming that the founders of the colonized nation of the United States
were beneficial altruists or but they they took some principles that were pretty profound
and encoded them as foundations.
I also don't know the histories of the foundations of other nations but I suspect that many of them
lie in war and colonization not all of them I don't know but I was born here and I live here
and if something directly threatens the nation I live in I am unlikely to side with it.
There are perhaps examples of exceptions.
Missions that intend to build actually intelligent societies might get my attention
or my participation my cooperation but if something if someone wants to like take down the
United States I'm not on their side and if they want to take down any foreign nation I'm not on
their side with some exceptions right if that nation is acting
cruelly or inhumanely or stupidly or aggressively then just like you know the drunk guy at the bar
we need to we need to cope with this somehow hopefully blows don't have to be exchanged
but if they do then let's you know let's do so as effectively and quickly and
you know un-injuriously as possible
and here's the problem other nations have set their sights on the United States
on acquiring it controlling it or possibly destroying it
and
it's not because they have a better idea of how to be human or they intend to
rescue the planet from nuclear devastation or some noble mission it's a straight-up
military objective it's a military economic objective
and in the beginning of problems with immigration you know my ancestors were immigrants here
our country has generally
been a sort of haven for others and particularly those who suffered
religious sectarian gender-based you know any kind of persecution in their home country that was
serious we you know we our country maintains a sort of a balance sheet of
how many foreign people we can import
and I'm well aware that people from specific countries come here
particularly South America in search of a better life for them and their families and
and
also to escape you know catastrophic hardship
hmm what was that about that was weird
however
you know I don't know how to solve the immigration problem and I think it's very complex
um and I don't even really understand the scope of the immigrant immigration problem like an
expert or even a well-educated person what I know is that each day somewhere between
10,000 and 100,000 people from other countries pour into our nation
and I mean there is a question about does anyone actually possess their own nation
is it a possession what is it what's the relationship or are we there are we the
conservators of a nation
over the past couple months listening to experts
um usually X CIA or X screen berets talking about topics like the Darian gap which you can look up
and what's going on with China one of them had written three books on
what was it Chinese information warfare
uh and who interviewed him maybe was it Chris Williams I'm not sure
he he went down to the Darian gap and sort of checked into what was going on down there
this is a place where thousands of immigrants heading for the United States show up every day
um and where they are fleeced and murdered and raped and tortured except the Chinese who mostly
aren't and the Chinese have their own camps you can't get into them and it's clear that these
are not ordinary immigrants after having you know spoken with a number of them
many of those spoken with were clearly not ordinary Chinese people these were
trained intelligence agents
coming into the United States by the thousands per month and sometimes you know the tens of thousands
per week uh now something should be obvious which is that
wars are expensive and dangerous and painful but you can have there's like 50 ways you can
avoid direct conflict and one of them is just by replacing another nation's population with your
own internally and here's the actual problem that i'm facing presently many of the ideas
many of the ideologies
that presently dominate the democratic party what we might think of as the left and maybe there's a
left part of the right as you know as well so to speak and these words are very easily loosely
applied many of the imperatives that currently orient the left are lethally dangerous to the
future of the possibility of our nation i've never been much of a patriot but what i'm seeing going on
now is catastrophically stupid you know the left's idea that anyone who wants to live here
should just come on over it's we're all better together is fucking insane and won't work because
there are bad actors and i mean you know it's the same thing as like well we'll just you know
let's just give our military to every nation who wants a piece of it
we should have better solutions than military conflict as of i don't know 200 years ago at least
but uh in the in a world where we don't you can't just do away with the military because you're a
nice guy and want to you know want to be a good neighbor similarly you can't ignore
immigration issues because those people become voters and they become economic powers
inside your own nation in the same way you don't you don't like go down to the store by cancer and
swallow some directly um anyone with any concern for our nation at all would realize that our
government is absolutely failing to protect the future and the present of our nation as regards
the specific problem we are not formally paying the the proper kind of attention to the issue
hi
clades with strong subcultures that enter our nation will establish those subcultures
and their subcultures and their behaviors will select for participants in those subcultures
and will establish themselves as powers socially economically religiously politically
as if the united state the existing milieu of the united states is just a petri dish filled with
various nourishment media now someone could argue yes that's the whole idea of this experiment
no it fucking isn't um obviously we should reforge our nation every 30 to 50 years i think
you know that principle is something i took from the founding documents quote unquote
which we never did and that's part of why we're in such a fucking mess we being you know we actual
americans and look i'm very aware that uh immigrants from other nations come to america
and do provide you know in terms of the the structured systems we have in place the economic
systems the commercial systems all of these um they you know they show up and they do they do
hard work they work really fucking hard in many cases they're not just sitting at home
you know watching tv getting a check from the government every month though perhaps some portion
of them are they participate meaningfully in our economy and in some ways you know better than some
percentage of of our own people do however demoralized and uh disaffected our own people may be
China is pouring agents into this country um we've seen the same strategy elsewhere there's
many python cartoons about it that i've seen so they must have done it in britain as well
in my own neighborhood and i'm not saying this to be racist um
i am profoundly outnumbered by asians and over 30 years what does it mean i am profoundly outnumbered
by asians um i am now a minority okay other people have experienced that no no problem but
why am i a minority i am a minority because of a massive transfer of wealth generationally
let me be really clear it is extremely expensive to live in san francisco
even if your housing is taken care of
where's all the money coming from
how do why is there i mean over the past 30 years for example
the number of restaurants in my neighborhood that are asian has probably quadrupled right now i
don't mean the number i mean the prevalence uh like a four fold increase um when i walk around
on the street probably a third of the people that i see are asian and i'm not biased against
asian people in fact quite the opposite um i've been a student of asian culture since my early
20s i studied tai chi i made some attempts at learning kanji and have studied a bit of chinese
language and um japanese language i am in a a xenophile i love human beings i love all the
different kinds of human beings and when humans from other cultures and or ethnicities and or
genders show up around me i'm usually fascinated and you know open to collaborative human being
gaming together um but that's not what's going on what's going on is uh kind of a sectarian
right a a chunk
wow there is a lot of action here are those really carp
now we've got carp minnows and turtles all hanging out in the warm spot
but i can't actually tell if those are carp they don't look like bass catfish or
fish
in terms of international politics the chinese are
anciently intelligent right this is a civilization civilization that makes america look like uh
what a four-year-old um they play the long game generally speaking and
because their efforts are fundamentally intrinsically unified under the party
in a way that ours are not that no western nations really are
um communism is very likely to win uh any kind of military or domineering game over time
historically the capacity for the development of new technologies was one of the things that kept
our nation relatively dominant
uh but we have failed catastrophically as a nation to capitalize even in even in the
regular representational senses right of policy economics law education health care
we have totally failed to take care of our nation its infrastructure our people their
well-being their future um which is the reason we have a nation now you can you can think like
well i'm anti-national great if this thing falls apart with you in it what you're gonna see prevail
in the place of the relatively benign systems that you see today will be abject tyranny right
you won't want to be alive in that kind of a thing so whether or not you're a fan of the united
states per se we take a nation we take our nation for granted we presume it will always be there
that it's at least relatively stable and reliable and so that is not the case i'm sorry
it's just not true pragmatically i mean unless you want to live in red china or under a russian
czar you'd better take care of what you've got right and actually care about it even if you
oppose many of its transformations and policies this is our nation and it's not just our nation
it's pivotal in world politics if our nation were to fall either via conflict or internal
transformation by being flooded with immigrants particularly say from china and or iran syria
et cetera um hamas hezbollah you're not gonna want you're not gonna like the outcome right
it's gonna be living here will be misery but if our nation falls
the rest of the nations are next in line right the west of the the rest of the democracies
are going they're not going to be able to stand on their own um whether or not we are
truly good or bennett benevolent or intelligent has nothing to do with it you've got the ravenous
maws so to speak of various corporate and national players that are racing for dominance
and we have to protect our own nation whether we are patriots or not
it's the nation we live in
and it does take care of us to a degree and here's the problem on the left
which is where my mind you know imagines i would be right we have a bunch of imperatives
that are supporting the enemies of our nation and creating factions within like
political causing political schizogenesis right into smaller and smaller tribal cohorts
and some of the ideals that have infected the left the dei nightmare um which again you know
virtue
it's it's so bizarre that the branch of dialectic concerned and that introduced to us the phrase
virtue signaling is also the branch compromised by that
um
people have attacked the idea of meritocracy and i am still sort of digesting some of those attacks
but a friend of mine who'd been a nurse
uh in a neonatal trauma ward for 30 years and is about to retire right she this woman worked in
vietnam of women's rights and women's bodies she was in her retirement speech which she has
to have vetted by the administration she said that another that a woman who had inspired she
was talking about a woman who had inspired her and how articulate she was and i said you can't
say articulate and my friend said what what you're like yeah you can't use that word because it
it segments people into a hierarchy and the people who are not included will be offended
the people who are not articulate may take offense um i think they actually went so far as to call
that hate speech right in other words to sing the virtues of another human is hate speech because
those humans who have not achieved or right will will feel somehow deprived of of human value or
so yeah what the actual fuck is going on
i mean that same woman underwent a long complex assault on her
her moral and ethical inclusive behavior i mean this is someone who spends her life arguing
for inclusion so we have this problem where there's essentially a a library of thrips or mental
diseases that have somehow been injected into the left under the guise of producing equality
valuing diversity and being inclusive of all people right this is the idea of equal treatment
that's what's on the flag right the idea of equal treatment what's underneath it i don't
fucking know but i mistrust it catastrophically it has the stink of psyops all around it to me
uh so it's very confusing for me in this phase of my life i watched my father become conservative
as he got older and i was like the fuck is wrong with him what is he thinking right he is can't be
good he's a he votes republican what what my dad but i now and it's not just because of aging
it's not just for that i've aged um
i can see there's a real danger here of our country being taken apart from the inside
and essentially taken over from the inside along with the problem of the catastrophic
inefficiency of bureaucratic government right that's a real fucking thing
um we as a people if we were unified
it's all good it's all good
if we as a people were unified with and for each other in the history of future of life on earth
as i might say um then you know we could fund our government with probably
six percent of what it currently requires for funding maybe 12 at the most and with the
and we could fund the military with probably 10 percent of what it presently devours
and we could have an effective efficient economic political and hopefully ideological
nation
right now what we have is the opposite of that but even that is incredibly valuable and it
mustn't fall if it falls the rest of the planet's going with it to whatever force takes it over
so you know if you don't want your grandkids presuming that we get to have any marching around
in little red costumes with a star on their pocket i don't care what your politics are you have to
care about the the history and future of this nation which is our nation if you're american
and if you live in a western nation which is allied with the united states then you know this
also has to be your concern because your nation won't survive very unlikely to survive the devastation
of ours you might not like grocery stores but if they go away what are you going to do
grocery stores are a huge problem i agree the the trash the products the poison the money
the politics the power i get it
so yeah we're in we're in bad trouble it's clear that china has set its sights on the united states
and they're pouring well-trained cooperative chinese mostly young men into our our nation daily
i mean you had a cup of coffee it's getting filled with motor oil i mean it doesn't take
much motor oil that that's not coffee anymore right how much motor oil do you got to put in there
not much so it's very peculiar for me in my in my accelerated decrepitude to find myself
concerned in a similar way about immigration this problem must be solved this cannot be
uh bait for political um
you know bait for political count accusation counter accusation bullshit debates of lying
politicians this has to be dealt with this nation won't survive many of the modern nations are facing
in the near-term future monumental waves of immigration and how are they going to cope with
that you know if we have a society with any any degree of intelligence at all the problem
must be seen as crucially important and has to be addressed in a bi you know in a multi-partisan
display of actual human intelligence about the future of our country
so i'm quite concerned about this um china is doing a lot of very weird things and they may be
straight-up siapping the united states the citizens both for and against like once you have an issue
that can divide americans just pump that shit up and you win it's really easy to overcome an
opponent that has 16 fucking conflicting uh like direct directives in consciousness
oh yeah do you know nancy de stefanis who the heron lady i've seen her i've never met her yeah
oh she's she's quite a character um i hadn't seen the second one but i just yeah there's three
yeah much easier to see them in the evening
so
hmm all right so i'm kind of the thing that i really wanted to point out here
is that many of the ideological underpinnings of current left-leaning politics, which, for example, you know,
hmm, what are they doing that's really troubling to me?
If I'm going to have brain surgery, or if my banker is going to do something with my investments,
or if there is a complex threat to my security, health or well-being,
what I don't want is people who are selected based on some criteria about how many people of each ethnicity,
religious belief, gender perspective, we need to get on the team so that everybody's equally represented.
What I want are experts. I don't care what they're, you know.
The selecting criteria is demonstrations of skillfulness and efficacy at doing whatever it is that's crucial to our survival,
or, you know, the, um, sorry, a little distracted there.
Yeah, it's not so much merit as it is expertise, right, the demonstration of expertise.
I don't want to go to a doctor that was given a certificate, not because they passed the boards or whatever,
but because, for example, no, I'm not going to make an example.
You can imagine the cartoon example I would make. They belong to this ethnicity, this peculiar variation of human gender,
and this peculiar ideological and or religious background.
Um, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
We need, in the places within our society that demand skill, we need people with skill, not people who are selected to fulfill a quota system.
Um, the underlying milieu among the Democrats is apparently something loopy, which is pro, apparently it's like pro-immigration or something.
Yeah, let everybody come in who wants to come in, or something like this. I don't even know.
I don't actually know, but the functional outcome of the battle in our political system, the battle between 19 different lying factions,
each lying for their own reasons, is going to get us snuffed. It's not going to work even in the short term.
Um, you can't let hundreds of thousands of people per month from other countries pour into our nation and conserve the structure of the polis, at all.
And that structure, our nation and the future of many other nations depends on it, whether we like it, you know, whether we approve or not isn't the question.
It's a structural thing. If you pull the pin on that grenade, the planet is going to go off, right?
So I'm quite concerned about what I've learned about that recently, and I take it very seriously.
And I'm certainly neither a Republican nor a Democrat anymore, but my, although I believe in the idea of an intelligent democracy, I've never seen one established,
the exception cases are small groups, perhaps resembling like the Sea Shepherd Conservation Society or something.
Small integral groups who function for the sake of a noble mission together, that can work out well.
But I've never seen a nation established according to these principles.
Ours was counterfeited, you know, very quickly after its inception, and taken over by interests of power, money, actual prison nearing, and so forth.
So that's a big mess.
Now, where am I here? Okay.
So there's one, I'm very concerned that I hear people speaking Chinese all the time all around me, and I love the sound of other languages, and I love the diversity of the place in which I live.
I actually do really believe fundamentally in diversity, but it has to be enacted.
It can't be provisional, and it can't be diversity over, you know, as an overlord, right? Either.
It has to be naturally, to some degree, naturally enacted, with, you know, experiences of cooperative life paths, and concern, and education, and so forth.
Okay, so there's one more thing. I'm going to pause for a minute and see if I can come back with it.
Alright, Israel and Palestine.
I'm not very well educated. I know little pieces of information about both, you know, both sides.
The problem, one of the problems we have today is that because false flags are possible, we have to consider them, even if the data doesn't immediately point in that direction.
Alright.
The United States has certainly conducted a number of crucial false flag operations to get us into wars.
Now, the idea that somehow the Israelis co-opulate some faction within the Israeli government, set up what happened is distant from my thought and concern.
Nonetheless, I need to mention it because it's fucking 2024, and the faces, whatever we see on the face of phenomena, is just not even half of what's going on.
No matter what might be going on, and I don't know what's going on there. I honestly don't.
But, taking it face value,
killing civilians is fucking unjustifiable. I don't care who's doing it. I don't really care why.
And the atrocities committed ostensibly by Hezbollah and Hamas are real atrocities.
The atrocities responsibly committed by Israel are real atrocities.
These are fundamentally unjustifiable.
Now, I've heard Sam Harris say things like, look, you got a bunch of people running around out there who are like, we're going to kill you and your children as an act of religious expression and faith.
Like, we prefer killing you and your kids to our own survival, right?
That you have to basically obliterate any faction of humans that thinks this way. You've got to get rid of them.
Especially if they're a significant threat.
I've heard him say things like this. I don't really understand exactly what he means by get rid of them. Obviously, he means kill them.
But what does he mean? How do you determine who is them?
Israel as a nation is endowed with the power to defend its interests with military might.
But blowing up hospitals and schools because this is where Hamas and Hezbollah like to hide their infrastructure, there's no, you can't, it's impossible to justify that.
And again, I'm very ignorant on this topic and so I don't really trust my own opinions and I'm happy to be educated by those with other opinions.
But most of the intellectual, intelligent Jewish people among my friend groups, they are not in favor of the slaughter of civilians.
And you know, Israel as a nation is not the same thing as the Jews and Hamas and Hezbollah are not the same thing as the Palestinians.
This is a very complex and problematical category problem here, again, right?
And I've spoken of this in previous videos, I now remember. We shouldn't confuse Israel with Jewish people and Hamas and Hezbollah with Palestinian people.
The fact that many of the participants fit into some, you know, category notwithstanding. We need to think much more carefully about this.
If anyone is standing around waving flags and cheering for the slaughter of, you know, civilians, those people are the problem and I don't really care what their ethnic or political or, you know, nationalistic origin is.
It's fundamentally inhuman and bad.
So for the moment, I'm going to leave that there remembering that I've discussed this in another of my recordings.
So grateful to have had this time together. Thank you for joining me. Please take a moment to support my work in whatever way feels appropriate for you if you're enjoying it.
I wish you beautiful ways, days, relationships and opportunities. Bye-bye for now.
