...discovered country of conversational possibilities.
Luca, so glad to have you back here again, very excited.
I know it's not every day that you're over here on the West Coast.
You probably don't think of it this way, but there's another distinct difference between
where you live and where I live that maybe hasn't entirely occurred to you.
I'm curious.
You live in the beginning of time, and I live in the end.
This is apocalypse land here.
The sun rises on you, and it sets on us.
That's not a minor feature of our worlds, right?
The sun rises for you many hours before it rises for us.
Hmm.
Is that not set?
Oh, wait.
Uh...
Yeah.
Help, help.
Wait, wait.
Let me think.
When it's 6 a.m. here, it's 9 a.m. at us.
So yeah, it rises for us.
First.
Yeah.
It sets for us now.
Right, because Japan is the real line of the rising sun, and this is, you're right, this
is literally the last place basically on Earth that it's like set.
I mean, according to the, I mean, it's a circle, so.
It's true.
According to the linear time zones.
Right.
And so we are both the future and the apocalypse out here, which you can see very clearly in
a variety of the ways in which we might be uniquely specialized here on the West Coast.
Um, tech, particularly, computers, stuff like that, mostly starts, starts its development
here.
Though there are features, I'm sure there, there are aspects of human technology that
get their start on the, on the East Coast, perhaps you might know some of them, I'm not
particularly here.
It's definitely mostly here.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So we're sort of like the future and the end of time out here, and that's very different.
The spirit of that, the energy of that is very different from where you are.
If the future is more disconnected, we're way more disconnected out here, right?
Because we're literally, we're in the actual future of every day of sunlight, right on Earth.
So yeah, this is something I was talking with, um, with a mutual friend we have who was visiting
here not too long ago.
I was talking about with him.
It rarely occurs to people from the East Coast, they just don't think that way.
Yeah.
This is the kind of thing that mystics would, would, would promote, would propose, excuse
me.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Hmm.
To me, it's more, to me, it's not really the future.
It's more the, yeah, the end of time resonates, but I think cause it's the, it has the continuation
of the linear progress narrative of the future, which is not the actual future.
And it's actually the dying kind of already dead system, but it's still, the corpse is
still moving, you know?
The zombie.
The zombie of linear modernity and like the progress narrative and all that stuff.
Right, right.
Which, you know, when you, like I, a few weeks ago I was watching Sam Altman speak like in
preparation for this trip partially.
And also cause I was using chat GPT a bit more and I wanted to like see this, the soul
of the founder, you know?
And like feel how that's manifesting in it.
It's just such a simple progress narrative.
Yeah.
Which is, holds, he's kind of like, his body's kind of like forward craning, you know?
And there's, it's very like immobile.
It's just, he's just like immobile and he's this floating head and he has just this linear
progress narrative of where AI is going.
Whereas I feel, to me, Asheville is like much more of the future cause it has this like mycelial,
connected weaving and embodied intelligence is like people realize that that's the future
and are like centralizing that in their lives.
So it doesn't feel that way yet.
I mean like any future, like it's, it's still in the embryo stage and it's, you know, the
mother and the father are much, much, much more powerful beings than the embryo.
But the mother and father are like, in this case already dead, in my opinion, like I think
modernity is already in like, it's basic vitality is already dead.
And it's just the carcass is still left.
Um, what do you suppose it's basic vitality was dependent on?
Where does that arise from?
Um, I mean the first thing that comes to me, I don't know if that's it, but it's like the
shared vision of like the basic laws of reality.
Like if you read people from like pre 1980s or like 70s, like maybe pre postmodernism,
they're all like the laws of the universe.
Like everybody is obsessed with the laws of the universe.
And like, it's like, I've discovered the laws of the universe, like, and you know, there's
no one who's not saying that, like everyone has different visions of what those are to
some extent.
But there's this shared sense, like we can access the laws of the universe and like,
we're like building on, you know, the whole science narrative, we're just like building
on past knowledge and stuff.
I feel like with postmodernism, um, and then also like more, uh, flows since then as well.
Um, yeah, that's just not there anymore.
Like we don't know really what reality is, but for the most part, we know, except again,
like Silicon Valley in that sense feels almost archaic in certain ways in that, like with
some exceptions, like it feels like most of the thinking here is still in that like
linear absolute, like single system of the universe that we can understand and that we
must follow in order to be like in harmony kind of attitude.
Um, I find that somewhat surprising, the idea that humans were trying to harmonize, it didn't
seem like there was any harmonizing going on, it seemed like a total domination.
Well, yeah, that's the thing is like, it's about dominating.
Yeah.
Once we know the laws, we can dominate.
Right.
Exactly.
The harmony, but the harmonizing is like the facade layered on top of it.
Yeah.
That's to make it seem it's a facade.
Yeah.
But I think the people who are in it, I think genuinely are believing, maybe not all of them,
but some of them, I think are genuinely believing that they're harmonizing, but the
true energy is, is, is domination.
Yeah.
Especially prior to post because postmodernism, you know, it's like, you know, you know, you
know, the Foucault like prison thing and stuff, the panopticon.
Panopticon, of course.
So with that kind of stuff, like they all revealed like, oh, like the power dynamics going on.
Um, and you know, you can take that too far for sure as well, but there is, you know,
they revealed all these power dynamics and the domination and like colonial stuff and
all that.
But prior to that, I think people didn't even really know that there was domination happening.
They just thought they were harmony.
You know, the missionaries going to, you know, kind of like the jungle civilizations and being
like, believe God.
We're like, we're harmonizing you into the laws of the universe.
And I think they genuinely thought they were like,
put this collar on.
Yeah, exactly.
Let me change you to this wall.
Yeah, exactly.
We're going to harmonize you right now.
You're going to be really grateful for this a little bit later.
Right.
Exactly.
Which is, that was generally energy then.
And now obviously we like, there's enough breaking of that frame that there's like,
Oh, it's a, that's not what it is, but it feels important to technology.
It's not just like evil people trying to be dominant.
You know, it's people like who are harmonized, trying to harmonize.
Sure.
A lot of them and a lot of them not, but a lot of them are trying to harmonize.
And, but the underlying energy is like, even Sam Altman.
I feel like he's a good example just cause I was recently interacting with him and not,
I mean, not literally, but in a video.
Right.
Um, and because he runs like open AI, which is playing such a big role in the AI revolution.
And his, he's, I don't think he has any thought that he's dominating anything.
And, you know, in many ways he's doing that less than, you know, a hundred years ago technologies
were doing and in many ways more.
Um, but he's not nefarious.
He's just, I, you know, that's the kind of issue of evil is nobody thinks they're evil.
Really even Hitler, you know, didn't think he was evil.
I know, but you can see so very blatantly in, uh, even recent situations, right?
Where something starts out with an edict.
Like we're not going to do bad things.
We're not going to serve the military.
We're not going to, you know, blah, blah, blah, blah, make up any kind of fancy, blueish,
happy go lucky, you know, flower child bullshit you want.
And 10 fucking seconds later, it's over.
Oh yeah.
We're going to do what we're the military now.
Like, yeah, come on here.
Let me bend over and take my pants down because I want some more military money or whatever.
Like I've yet to see a single technology.
And this is part of, I know I'm being, I'm being hyperbolic, but
I haven't seen a signal, a single technology, um, maintain those initial oriented, ethical,
not one.
Yeah.
Right.
Um, nothing like no examples.
So when humans tell me like, you know, it's going to get a lot better.
Don't worry.
We got this this time where the kids are going to make this happen.
Right.
I'm like, you know, you're full of shit.
When the money meets your ethics, the money's going to win.
Yeah.
Right.
Almost.
I mean, every time.
And if it doesn't, I mean, if, if it doesn't, if you resist, you'll either be bought out or
they'll just be like, yeah, fuck your patents.
Mm.
Right.
This is for the good of the nation.
Yeah.
Well, that, I mean, that's kind of directly relevant to me since I'm running a startup.
So like, I'm thinking about it, like, I mean, unless you have something of high military
value, you'd be unlikely to come under that.
Right.
Fair enough.
I guess we don't really have that.
Seems unlikely.
There's also the difference.
I was talking to someone about this a few days or yesterday, actually, that in San Francisco,
capital is very like ingrained in the field.
So you kind of can't avoid it no matter what you do.
Whereas in Nashville, it's not.
And that was a big decision I made when deciding where to be based, but while building it.
Am I based?
Cause it's, you know, it's kind of a marriage of worlds.
It's like the tech startup.
I call it like the sun powered tech startup world.
Cause it's like hardcore Yang energy.
And it's just like, I mean, even in a physical sense, it's like sun energy, you know, like
the amount of electricity, like literal electricity that's pumping through the system, like lights,
but also like all the data centers and you know, all the, the supply chains and everything
that's enabling people to just eat like high energy foods all the time really easily.
So, you know, you could get really granular with how that energy is pumping through.
And then also just like human labor, like life force, human life force being channeled.
So it's all this like sun powered tech energy startup.
And then what I call like the mountain elf, gorilla warrior lineage, and they're kind of meeting
in the middle, ideally in flourish.
And so far that that's going really well.
Like the Sandinistas kind of thing.
Is that what you mean?
The mountain elf warrior?
Well, the, the elf, that would be the gorilla warrior part.
And then the mountain elf is like a modification on that.
Cause we are in the mountains.
Like Asheville is literally in the mountains.
And that's not a, it's not like trivially in the mountains.
Like it's, it's in, in the mountains and you feel that on a daily basis.
Like there's a withdrawal and there's like, there's more like nooks and crannies and spaciousness
to be like, okay, we're like truly not in the system right now.
And we're in this little like valley and we can like actually just like, there's like spaciousness
to in this little bubble that we are in, in this little valley.
There's cause there's a lot of little, I don't, I don't mean the Asheville Valley.
I mean, there's like a thousand little valleys and all the mountains and stuff.
And you know, you find your little valleys and you go to a friend's house that's in a valley
and then you're in another valley and they all, you can kind of like really kind of sync
up and create a little bubble.
And then you get this gorilla warrior energy.
We're like, Oh my God, we're actually outside of the empire now.
And now we can actually like move instead of just be like in the sticky dough of it all
the time.
Um, so that's the gorilla.
We're apart in the mountain elf is just being really deeply grounded in the land.
Um, and like in resonance with the land, both through rituals, but not in very like performative
rituals or anything.
Cause then you kind of lose the essence of it.
Sometimes it's very quiet or you're just on a walk or sometimes it is a more elaborate ritual,
but it doesn't have to be.
And, and listening to the land and the, in my case, the trees, like trees are my main portal,
but for some people it's the earth itself or it's like the animals or, you know, it's insects.
I think for you it's more insects, if I remember correctly.
Uh, hard to, hard to get.
Okay.
There are two things that it's hard to, um, improve on in terms of like transmission reception.
The first one is mountains.
Good luck.
Right.
Mountains are ridiculous.
I mean, they're literally absurd.
The only, the few times I've been around them, one was Shasta.
Right.
I don't even know how to begin to talk about it.
And I can say.
Right.
Some very simple things.
Like when we first got there, there had been a storm and we were, um, out in front.
We were in a little town, might be the town of Shasta.
I don't know.
There was this sort of makeshift snack shack.
We got some hamburgers or whatever.
There were some picnic benches outside.
It was still raining, though not hard enough to not be in the outside.
And I looked up at the mountain and, um, there was purple and green and orange and red and
blue lightning.
Wow.
Just like constantly, like nothing I've ever imagined even possible.
Like it was ridiculous.
Hmm.
So I'm sitting there watching this light show with like purple.
Wait, what?
Green.
Stop.
Yeah.
And, and I, I started hearing this, like.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I'm like, what's next?
You know, I turn around.
There's this old Navajo guy behind us.
It's like singing to the lightning on the mountain.
He starts telling us the story of the flood a long time ago and how the bear was looking
out for all the animals and took them up to the mountain to protect them from the flood.
Hmm.
This whole flood story, um, explained to me that the mountains are all in a sort of relationship
with each other, like a big family, that they're doing something very important that
we can't see.
And all of this was validated to me over the next, over the coming like three days of being
like, I saw the mountains doing this impossible thing with energy from the sky.
Hmm.
All this crazy stuff that I never imagined.
Yeah.
Um, and, uh, that guy was, turns out to be a very well, he said that he was, you know,
a Navajo elder and whatever, but it turns out that, uh, actually like a few months ago,
someone was talking about him to me and he's passed away now.
And I looked him up and I realized like, oh yeah, that's the guy who was standing behind
us that day when he was singing to the mountain.
Um, so yeah, mountains, the ocean also similar.
Yeah.
Desert as well.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Desert.
Um, so certain living places are really, really intense.
The only desert I've ever been to is Death Valley, but it was mind blowing.
Yeah.
Um, and then trees.
I would almost go so far as to say you need one of the three, you mean mountains, desert,
or ocean.
You need to have like a spiritual connection to them to be able to not be in the matrix.
Yeah.
Do I believe that?
No, not to not be in the matrix, but to be, to have enough spiritual force to be able to
do anything about the matrix.
Hmm.
remove yourself from the matrix without those possibly, but then you would just be not
in it, but you wouldn't, there's like, you need an additional something to feed.
Cause the matrix is an extra, I was going to say extra terrestrial.
I don't know if it's not that, but, or maybe it is, I don't know, but I just more mean outside
of yourself.
Yeah.
Extranious force.
Like non, non inorganic, non organic.
It's not so much that it's inorganic.
It's that it's like huge.
It's more like the strength of it.
It's monumental.
Maybe that's a good word.
And so you need an alternative monumental force to ground in, to be able to like, you
know, us as humans, we're like very small in relation to these huge forces.
So you can withdraw from it on your own.
Probably.
I don't know.
But to actually have like, you need, you need to, you know, it's almost like streams,
you know, like if you step out of this one river, it doesn't really work that metaphor,
but you need another river that doesn't work cause rivers don't clash.
So I don't know, but you just need an alternative strength of force.
Okay.
Mounds, deserts and oceans to me feel like the place where you can source more directly from
the earth's energy.
And those places feel like the most pure, I guess, like pure loose from the mate.
Like a forest is nice, but it's like, it's a little too like soft almost.
And like mountains, deserts and oceans.
There's this like primal power to it where you can, and you just, I mean, I'm sure you've
had this experience too.
And I think probably most people have at some point in life where with one of those three,
maybe you just feel the like massive power of that force.
Yeah.
I never felt related.
Well, I don't know.
I guess I did.
I do feel related to the ocean power.
Maybe I feel related to all of them, but I, yeah, I feel like you're like a in between,
like kind of fairy floating between them all and like synergizing them.
Yeah.
I really identify with the water though, for some reason.
Yeah.
Um, I wouldn't say I don't identify with the desert.
Like the first time I was in that desert, it was 127.
Man.
Yeah.
And I was just like totally up for it now.
I wanted to just walk out into the desert in the heat.
My friend's like, no dude, that's, you're having a delusion.
Like you're not going to be okay.
I was like, but it feels amazing.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I know.
Like prophets walking out into the desert is like, that's definitely like a mythical
archetype.
I mean, it's kind of similar with the cold of the ocean.
Cause the ocean here, I don't know how it is on the East coast cause I've never been
in the ocean there, but here it's pretty fucking cold.
If you're, if your circulation is decent, you've got about 30 to 40 minutes before your
muscle systems are going to start shutting down.
Yeah.
But you don't feel like that when you're in the water.
You just feel like, Oh, this is amazing.
Yeah.
I just want to stay here forever.
Right.
You just get happier.
The colder you get, you get happier and happier.
Yeah.
Which is sort of hilarious.
Yeah.
So.
Yeah.
So the, or yeah, go ahead.
If you had a quick, I was going to return to the mountain elf, sun powered startup thread.
Um, so yeah.
And the, it could be ocean or it could be, I don't know if it could be ocean actually at
it cause it, but it could be desert in any case or, or mountain.
I think those two, in any case I feel confident could be this, you know, alternative marriage
forest.
In my case it's just mountains cause I'm a water person.
Um, I've, I've, I've resonated with deserts before and I spent two months in Santa Fe
once the Santa Fe Institute, um, which I have mixed feelings about.
But anyways, the desert there was very powerful, but it's not my like Nate night native element,
I guess.
Yeah.
I've been in Reno for a year.
So there was some desert connection there, but I literally started crying when I touched
like rotten wood again after a year.
It was like pretty good here.
Actually it was close by.
Um, yeah.
Yeah.
It's so, it feels so good.
I know.
But it's so funny cause you don't usually think of rotten things as being like, yeah.
Right.
Yeah.
Look at the rotten shit.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Crumbly.
Right.
Weevil infested.
Yeah.
Um, so yeah, but the mountain elf in the case of flourish, like it very much has that mountain
elf gorilla warrior energy and there's a, there's like an, there's a few more.
Um, yeah, there's a, uh, an independence you could say to the, to the energy of it where
it's not cause all the startups here are like still matrix interwoven, even when they're
like kind of somewhat anti matrix or breaking out, they still like loop back into it.
Where, and where's this one with the mountain elf gorilla warrior energy?
It's like, uh, again, sitting in that alternative energy field of the mountains.
Um, but then it has to, you know, if it's, if we're just sitting here, you know, we're
just out here doing our nature things in Asheville, but like, it's not having systemic effect or
it is, it's rippling out somewhat, but where I'm coming from is like wanting to like,
uh, materialize that in like systemic change.
Um, so that's where the sun powered tech startup, which is the way I think of it is this huge,
like almost like the biggest pipe imaginable, just like spewing gold and sun energy out.
And it's just going to like into the sewer or something, you know, like the next email
startup or whatever, you know, and just tapping into that thread a little bit and like diverting
some of it and even like 0.1% of that diversion is still like just a gushing monumental amount
of energy.
Yeah.
So tapping into that.
And then I made the decision.
So both of those are like integral parts of flourish.
And then I made the decision that it was more important to be grounded in the mountain elf
one, like on a day to day basis.
And, you know, like now I'm making a foray into the sun power tech startup hub, San Francisco.
And, you know, I've met so many people and like really kind of tuned into that energy.
And also in a tangible sense, like the resources from there, the people from there, et cetera.
But if I was grounded in that, it would like this, it would drag you, it would drag me.
And this is the more important one to, and this one drags me a bit away from that as well.
So like, it's important to have some balance, but given that I have to live somewhere, it's
so much more important to be going here.
And this is the hardest one too, because this one is more in the field of Western civilization.
You know, like the, if you ask anyone, startup founders are like quite elevated as like a role in society.
And everyone knows of San Francisco, it's a huge city, or it's at least like not people wise,
but for sure capital wise, and for sure, like in the imagination and the mythical landscape.
Whereas the mountain elf, like, you know, most people are like, the fuck is that?
Understandably, like, it's not really talked about much.
Yeah.
What are you even talking about?
Yeah.
What are you even talking about?
Yeah.
Right.
Exactly.
I've gotten that a few times.
Yeah.
Tell people about it, which totally understandable, you know, cause it's just not in the field
as much.
And so it actually is in the culture.
It's in the culture so deeply.
Right.
It's true.
Right.
It's deep in the culture.
It's just not so much in the tech bro wonderland.
But in, in almost all of the workers in tech, L-O-T-R is fucking the Bible, dude.
Yeah.
I mean, it's just like, what?
You done?
Of course.
Elf power.
Yeah, let's go.
Pointing towards it.
I just spoke to a friend from a few hours ago.
I was hanging out with a friend of mine who used to live in Asheville and lives here
now, who's a body worker.
And she was saying, you know, we were just reminiscing a bit about when she first moved
to Asheville and she was talking about how, you know, in SF, everyone would be talking
about how they want to start a farm, live on a farm with friends.
Everyone was like fantasizing about that.
And it was like a strong desire.
And then she came to Asheville and everyone was actually doing that.
And then she just noticed, and I've noticed this as well, that the big difference between
if you're in a place like this, the pathway into doing that is like super hard and a few
people manage, but it's very, very hard.
Like, where are you going to start a farm here?
You know, like it's logistically, financially, and also just energetically, like you're really
bucking the trend there versus actually coming and doing it is like a different story.
So it's the same with that.
I feel like probably a lot of people you could talk to and they would, you know, maybe it
would take a little bit of explaining like what is mountain elf energy and then they would
be on board with it.
And this has been my experience too.
Like when I'm talking to people about, you know, not just mountain elf energy, but the
range of things I'm doing and there's resonance and alignment, but like, it's a whole other
step to, to actually move into that.
And you have to like, there's the, you know, I'm here and I'm imagining and then there's
like, I've leaped into that and I've made the sacrifice of giving us like the comforts
of the matrix and the like, not just the material comforts, but also the psychological comforts.
And you know, it's a big, it's kind of a, it's not just a big thing.
It's like a huge thing.
And that's the important thing for me to be grounded in.
So I'm not just getting lost in this fantasy because the fantasy loops back on itself into
the matrix, which is what I was talking about with this looping is like, okay, you have the
desire to break out of it and you know, live an independent life.
Exactly.
But then the fantasy, then you just, you get into the fantasy and then the fantasy gets
hijacked to cause you to, again, you think you're harmonizing, but then you end up dominating.
Yeah.
Most, you know, often in subtle ways that you don't even realize.
I mean, this happens.
Perpetuating that, that flow.
You almost don't.
Um, it's one of those things where it's like, add water, makes its own sauce.
Uh, you don't even really need, you don't need culture for that to happen.
It, it, it's, it's endemic in, in one of my views.
And I don't just have one.
Let's be really clear about this.
Thankfully, I'm not like a, um, single value thing, but in one of my views, I can see that
there are features of human representational cognition that lends, that lend themselves
very vulnerably to this particular issue of, you know, you form a sort of moral or ethical
fantasy.
You're not actually doing it, but you know, you think that because you like.
And believe that way that naturally you're going to be doing that.
And you end up doing.
Right.
Pretty much the opposite of it.
Yeah.
But you can justify it because someday you're going to put the money towards something really
beautiful and amazing.
Right.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Just keep spinning the snail shell of this in your mind.
Yeah.
And it doesn't even really require a nefarious culture.
It's.
Yeah.
It's almost like.
Right.
Generating and self fertilizing is the problem.
Right.
There's some self.
I like that.
Yeah.
There's a weird vacuum feature in modern human cognition that I think arises probably primarily
from just the idea of individuals, which is a really strange idea, actually, if you think
carefully about it.
So I'm not.
I also have experience of being an individual and so on.
I just doubt it.
I really doubt it dramatically.
Yeah.
And also, joy for me is almost always being with and for other people, whether that's
a momentary situation, like the one we have tonight, or some kind of ongoing situation
where we're collaborating day to day.
Yeah.
You know, they're sort of fighting the good fight, except the good fight really isn't
a fight.
It's some kind of weird.
The act like half theater, half play, half detective novel.
Half.
It's got a lot of halves.
This thing has so many halves.
I gotta tell you.
There's no end of halves to this thing.
Yeah.
Like, you know, this is what I mean.
Being human.
When we're allowed, when we're in a context that supports our humanity, it's diversely empowering.
And when we're in one that's depriving us of humanity, it tends to become single channel.
Right.
It tends toward that.
What do you mean by diversely empowering?
So, like, you get fed in a lot of different ways.
Oh, yeah.
And so, what that means is you're not starving in each of those ways.
And if you're not starving in each of those ways, it's very difficult to compel you to
defect.
Right?
Once you're, like, suffocating.
Right, right, yeah.
Anything.
They can sell you oxygen tanks with nothing in them and you'll collect them like your life
depends on it.
Right?
Like, this is the weird part of representational cognition.
You can be sold things that resemble what have been stolen or evacuated.
Right.
Yeah.
So, it's just something that I'm aware of.
And I would argue that in a nearly complete vacuum of anything resembling intelligence,
the artificial product is next on the fucking agenda.
Boy, let's have some of that.
Yeah.
Right?
There's a lot of intelligence around here.
So, let's get some non, you know, let's get some mechanical kinds.
Yeah.
Um, though I definitely want to explore, we can continue on the thread that we're on,
but I want to, I'm hoping we may explore that topic some because-
Which one?
Are, what they're, what is referred to as artificial intelligence, which I think is a
hilarious piece number.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Totally.
Uh, yeah, we can get there.
I'd also like to talk about it.
Cause, uh, yeah, it's so strong in the field here.
Um, curating databases is not intelligence.
I don't care who says what, that's a curated database.
That's, that's what it is.
Yeah.
As far as I can tell, if it becomes something more than that, I'd love to hear about it.
But it looks like a curated database to me.
Like AI in general, you mean?
Yeah.
Yeah.
That's just a way of curating databases.
As far as I can tell so far.
I mean, unless there's things I haven't heard, heard, ever seen yet, but I didn't mean to
get ahead of ourselves.
Yeah.
Let's bookmark that.
Cause I'm curious what you mean by that.
Sure.
Um, yeah.
In terms of the artificial products, like that were fed that fill the hole, you know,
that we were, we talked about that last time as well.
And I feel like now we can add this like looping behavior of like the, the, the internal,
this is totally loose of like buying products and just the internal self soothing of like,
like you were saying, like you, I've, you, you phrased it so beautifully.
Like you believe that you're, you know, you have these desires to break out of it and you
believe that you're doing that, but you're not quite doing it, but you're kind of doing
it.
And then there's a like relief and I call it like self soothing.
It's like, you know, I'm in, I'm in and participating in a dominating culture and I, I'm not breaking
out of it, but I can self soothe that I know all about how it's dominating and that I have
the desire to break out of it.
And that I'm like doing, doing, yeah, exactly.
And I'm kind of doing things that are helping us break out of it.
And I can, if you know, if I, I'm squinting my eyes and I can convince myself that it's
like, this is true.
I can see the good part.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Exactly.
And to me, that self, I feel like both like tech startup world and woke world are both
and, and like another dozen things are, or I mean a lot of Christianity as well are like
instances of that.
Health insurance.
Health insurance.
Yeah.
Say more.
Yeah.
No, I was, I mean, I was making a joke.
I mean a joke based on recent events in the media and so forth, but yeah, go ahead.
Right.
Yeah.
So health insurance has got to be the greatest oxymoron of two words that have ever been put
together, but please continue.
Yeah.
So you have this, all of those three are self soothing loop or not, not by definition always,
but in general how they manifest is a self soothing loop of, you know, I have some awareness
on a visceral level and, or on a head level that I'm in a participating in a dominating
culture.
Um, but I'm, I don't have the something, you know, I don't have the, the willpower.
I don't have the context or I don't have the like a sense of agency to genuinely break
out of this and kind of truly devote myself with all the sacrifices as it entails and the
joys, but the sacrifices are more prominent at first.
Presuming those are required.
They're not always, I don't think that's just.
Yeah.
But they feel like they're required while you're in it.
I mean, this is more the mindset of where that self soothing happens.
So you don't want to go that far, but you want to do something.
You can't just sit here and participate in the dominated culture.
So then you get something like wokeism, like, Oh, you know, but it's not actually doing
anything.
And same with tech startups, like, Oh, I'm changing the world, you know, but you're not really kind
of for the average tech startup, you're not really making any change to the system.
You're just perpetuating it.
And maybe a slight modification happens.
I mean, you're either building the Death Star or TIE fighters.
Right.
I mean, yeah, exactly.
So it all just like loops back and then, but then, and the self soothing is actually a
very important part of the system.
So, you know, now it's wokeism and tech startups and, you know, the other dozen iterations.
And in every age, it's like different self soothings.
And I think actually a lot of counterculture both had elements that were authentic and also
had some self soothing elements, especially as it started mutating.
But it's important thing to point out, because I think there's a strong sense, which I totally
get.
And I used to have this as well.
Like, okay, whoa, I saw that everything is fucked up.
And now I'm, or not everything, but you know, this like dominator energy.
Exactly.
And now I am doing something that feels like it's doing something against it.
So I'm okay.
I'm fine.
It's fine.
You know?
And that is, but that loop, like if in order to keep people participating in that system,
despite the fact that it has some visible shortcomings, there has to be a way for them
to continue participating in it while being able to self soothe that they're not participating
in it.
So it's like built in.
So like, basically, if you realize that you're in that loop, that doesn't mean you've
broken out of the system.
It means you're actually fundamental, that is part of the fundamental nature of participating
in the system is that you have a self soothing loop that helps you feel like you're fighting
the system.
Yeah, I mean, I would like some alternative language there, like, I would call it intent
cloaking.
Right?
So your actual intent is being cloaked.
Right?
You're cloaking it in, well, I'm working towards something.
I can see the problem.
I'm working toward fixing the problem.
Meanwhile, I'm, I'm Darth Vader's massage therapist.
Right?
I don't know.
I'm making a joke.
Yeah, yeah.
Not to cashier on your friend, the body worker at all.
But that just came out at random.
Yeah.
So, fuck.
Yeah, there's, there's a bunch of weird problems.
I like, I don't object to the use of the language self soothing.
So, we walk ourselves to sleep, particularly if the more isolated we are, the more, um, perhaps
desperate we become for any feeling of comfort or wellbeing.
Hmm.
And so it's not unnatural or even necessarily reprehensible.
Right?
Yeah.
We have to, it's important that, um, somehow we invent together social, relational and vocational
and educational contexts that aren't concerned with fighting.
Right.
Yeah.
They're just concerned with establishing something authentic enough so that we can flourish in
it.
Right.
Yeah, totally.
Yeah.
I think that's a really important reframe cause it might sound from how we're talking about
it, that the thing to do is to withdraw even more and to fight even more.
But we're at, I think what I'm saying, it sounds like we're also saying is like the loop
of fighting it as part of not stepping out of it and creating a new thing.
And the true move is to like own your agency as an alive creature.
Yep.
The way I had a huge reframe a few weeks ago where I was like, instead of like, I am living
in the United States, it was the United States is living around me, which is like the United
States kind of like in some sense stops here.
I mean, this is kind of not true, but the feeling is like the United States kind of stops
here and here is like me as an organism.
But then of course it's like interpenetrated all over me.
But the core energy of it is like, I'm an organism.
Yeah.
That is alive.
I was born from a mother that is not an abstract nation.
It's like my mother was a fleshly creature and my father was a fleshly creature.
And I'm a fleshly creature.
And that is much more than a citizen of the United States.
And on top of that fleshly creature, I'm a citizen of the United States.
And so there's a, there's like an agency in that, which is like, okay, I have to obviously,
obviously account for the fact that I'm a citizen of the United States.
You know, the laws, the norms, you know, etc.
But I can agentically choose how I'm relating to them.
And I don't need to let them like completely define my reality.
A priori, I can, and I'll choose to let some of them define my reality.
You know, it would be very hard to just completely not have any of them defining my reality, but
I can choose.
And then I can also within that universe of being choose what I as an organism, who is
a citizen of the United States chooses to do.
And then that's where you break out of the self soothing, but still participating loop into the
like, okay, now I'm just focusing on like creating bubbles or yeah, wounds, like organic
wounds, like what we were talking about the other day, focused on creating or participating
in organic wounds, whether it's humans that are full humans together.
And then that's, that's what it's about.
And then the fighting the system doesn't really even matter at that point.
And then it's almost the opposite.
Like what I was saying with this, like, you know, sun powered energy.
You want to like harness it and tap into it and relate to it strategically and recognize
that it does have a lot of like, um, way, like if you relate to it agentically, it goes
from this like evil empire to a specific entity that you can have a relationship with.
That is a lot more powerful than you, but your relationship with it is not predefined.
If that makes sense.
It does.
I'd like to, um, take a moment to comment on a few of the things that rose in my awareness
while you're speaking.
Yeah.
So often think in terms of what I sometimes think in terms of what I refer to as all the
fours, which are root concepts or principles that underlie the category tree in all languages.
Remember you talking about this.
Yeah.
And those in our time have been badly damaged as if they've been lossily recompressed again
and again and again over time, primarily by science and commerce, a war and other things.
But importantly, um, so before I'm anything, I mean, I want to be careful here.
I also don't want to go on a long lecture.
So I'll make this brief before I'm anything.
I'm everything.
And then I'm a being.
Yeah.
And then I'm an organism.
And then I'm an organism local to the sun, moon, you know, this solar system.
And then I'm an animal.
And then I'm a human being.
And then as a human being, I'm a representationally cognitive human being.
Not all human beings have to be that way.
There are many who are not.
Right.
Especially people that are uniquely minded.
They're not representational cognitive.
Wow.
Yeah.
Right.
They are humans.
They live with representational cognitive, but they don't participate in that game.
Certain autistic people or just uniquely minded.
Yeah.
I never thought of it that way.
Are not actually representational cognitive, though they live among them and are dependent on them.
So in that layer, in the layer of representational cognition, that's where your United States citizenship lives, not in any other layer.
Right.
It's a representational thing.
Yeah.
Right.
And so that is.
I think there's some threads pointing down because like my body tensions, for example, or, you know, certain like patterns in my like nervous system.
So I would say threads down, but, you know, it's like a wart or something.
I got you.
I don't want to say we're in the negative sense, like, because I don't want to, you know, vilify that piece, but it's mostly on the surface and has some threads going down.
Yeah.
We would agree about that.
That representational cognition is not entirely separate from biology.
Right.
Right.
Which is essentially what I think you're pointing at.
Pretty much.
Yeah.
Okay, great.
So I want to be a little bit careful here, but just to be because we're being recorded.
And that's another feature that I'd like to get into in this conversation.
Oh, yeah.
Function of privacy.
Oh, yeah.
Um, but, uh, I don't give a shit about the United States.
Hmm.
Nothing.
I don't care at all.
Mm hmm.
Like, I'm not, I'm patriotic to some of the principles the country appears to have perhaps
been founded on.
Hmm.
But the degree of implementation of those principles, as far as I can understand it in
my lifetime is somewhere near zero.
Hmm.
So I just don't.
Hmm.
I'm here.
You know, I don't.
It's a very complex mess for me.
Um, I don't trust the origins, structure, purposive, agent of nature, intelligence, or any
of those things of this construct.
I don't trust them.
Hmm.
Um, are they better than some of the other similar constructs?
Perhaps.
Hmm.
Yeah.
But if you line up like 27 serial killers and go like, okay, which one would you like
to support?
Right.
Right.
I'm not going to be a happy boy.
Right.
And if there are guns pointed at me of various kinds, which there are, um, you know, like,
uh, nominally or, um, financially or circumstantially, uh, relationally, then I, I might pretend.
To be anything.
Um, I don't, as a human being, I don't feel the necessity of acting with integrity toward
representational systems.
Ow.
Hmm.
I feel the necessity of acting with integrity toward beings.
Hmm.
And organisms and living places, humans, right?
Hmm.
That I feel the deep felt sense of, we should, we must act with integrity here, but representational
systems.
No, I don't, I don't care.
Um, I'm not going to go after them necessarily, but I'm going to try to do anything I can to
help humans survive their domination.
Hmm.
Hmm.
And there's a couple of other things I wanted to mention that in the terms of like little
taking notes.
And one of them is, um,
there's a certain kind of opportunistic awareness.
Um, that's common, for example, in martial artists.
Hmm.
Um, with the old men who are teaching me push hands.
And I want to be really clear before I start talking about this.
I'm not an expert at any of these things.
I don't consider myself like a master or anything like that.
I've studied Tai Chi for about 40 years.
Oh, well, I, so I'm not like brand new to the block, but I'm, I'm not speaking as an
expert.
I'm just speaking as someone who plays Tai Chi.
Right.
And in watching a skillful people play Tai Chi.
Okay.
What is the form of, I used to have this two word phrase.
I hope it'll come back to me.
Um, but it's a similar thing that's used by intelligence agents.
It's like an operational opportunism where they immediately sense and take advantage
of vulnerabilities without even thinking about it.
It's it becomes second.
They train until it becomes second nature.
And with one of the old guys I used to practice with, if he could get a finger on you,
you're going to fall over right now.
And there's nothing you can do about it.
You can be eight feet tall.
You can wait 300 pounds.
It doesn't matter what you got.
If he can touch you with this much force, you're going down.
It just doesn't, it takes less than an ounce of his power to completely steal your balance.
Right.
And then he'll catch you to make sure you don't get hurt too.
Right.
Both things.
So when you think, when we think about fighting, we've got the wrong fucking idea.
Yes.
We are arrayed against monumental forces, monumental forces.
The moment they stiffen, it's over for them with anything that has any sort of active opportunistic intelligence.
Right.
Those forces expect to be unstoppable.
They're operating in a broad variety of ways that make it absolutely vulnerable.
They've just, it's just a sort of David and Goliath thing.
They've never seen anything show up that could even pose a threat to them.
Those things could fall in a day.
They are way more vulnerable.
Our societies, the systems that enslave us and are ripping the world apart.
That stuff is so delicate.
And there's like five other important features of this problem that I think are rarely understood, which are things like, you know, the earth is doing something.
It's not just sitting there like a rock.
That's a being.
She has a history and a future.
She has friends, including the sun and other things that, you know, the humans are thinking like that.
Well, they're not thinking at all.
Like it would never occur to the humans that if you piss off the sun, you're going to have a really seriously bad time.
Right.
And if you rip the earth apart, you're going to anger things that you don't even know exist.
And they're not going to be friendly towards you at all.
They don't give a shit about you.
They care about the complex biosphere and its diversity and all of the things that that diversity supports and makes possible in time space.
Right.
I've heard people say like, why would aliens come to earth?
Humans boring.
I have no idea whether the aliens find humans interesting or not.
But the earth is absolutely preciously fascinating.
She's doing 15 things I could name to you that make her unimaginably valuable in time space.
Yeah.
And they have to do with things like making certain forms of biorelational temporality, which turns out to be a very valuable sort of commodity, not a commodity, but a resource in time space.
Most of time space isn't relational in the way that the earth is complexly, explosively relational.
Right.
Yeah.
So conversely, if you do things that help protect the living places and the world and the history and the future of living beings on this planet, you acquire allies that the monumental systems of devastation don't even know exist and don't believe in.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Right.
They're like, yeah, from bullshit.
That's the mountain health thing I was talking about.
Exactly.
The mountains, the deserts, the oceans.
Yeah.
That's exactly it.
Yeah.
There's a scene in some fantasy book that isn't necessarily written where the queen is like, okay, they're coming for us now.
So bring your heroes and those I trust, I will open the coffers of the ancient gifts to them.
I will give them one day, whatever they need, if they are true of heart.
So I think this kind of thing, although it sounds very, you know, sort of fantastical, is actually real.
The earth is a being.
Yeah.
Unfortunately, she has a very long phase of attention.
Right.
So it takes her, you know, a long time to notice if one of the organisms is misbehaving.
Right.
Well, unfortunately for our species, I suspect she has recently figured it out.
Mm-hmm.
It's only been, you know, 700,000 years or something that we've been misbehaving on this grand scale.
And maybe really only 200 or 300, but it's been devastatingly bad.
Yeah.
So those are some of my thoughts.
But the main thing, the main thing I want to get at is an opportunistic intelligence focus on the features of what we could think of as Moloch or Wetiko, or I'm not, I'm not a big fan of the names.
Yeah.
The absences that have captured the humans en masse and are essentially marching us toward various kinds of eschaton or whatever.
Okay.
Hmm.
Whew.
Yeah.
Wow.
I'm a little embarrassed at that tirade.
No, don't be.
That was beautiful.
No, it's something like if you've ever played Tai Chi, you realize I've watched people come.
Yeah.
For example, at the old guy, Gilan with force one time, like try to push him over.
Oh man, did not go well for that dude.
Yeah.
The next time I turned around and Gilan wasn't doing this to him.
Basically, Gilan just let him exert force and redirected it.
And the next time I saw that guy, his feet were up here and his face was just like swooping in the ground like a broom.
Wow.
And I was like, okay, I would like to learn more about this.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
What comes to mind for me is Vietnam, which is just, it's a very clear physical representation
of what you're talking about, which is this like empire force coming in with, with force
and being like completely defeated by a way weaker force, like in force terms weaker, but
which had that opportunistic intelligence.
Yes.
And so, and I don't want to be too kind of tactical opportunism.
That's the phrase, tactically opportunistic.
Yes.
Yeah.
I don't want to be too militaristic about it.
I also don't want to be, I don't want to be too un-militaristic about either.
Like you don't want to be, you need some militarism, I think in the way to relate to this kind of stuff
for it to like have the sharpness.
I don't even want to fight.
Yeah.
I don't want to fight.
I want to say something so astonishingly human and amazing that nobody is willing to be left
out.
I want to just absorb the energy that's feeding those other systems.
Yeah.
With something so beautiful and amazing.
And that, that should not really be that hard to do given that most of what we're faced
with is garbage and immiserating.
Yeah.
Well, I think that's where the, the partial militarism comes in, which is like on the,
on the aggregate scale, I think it's a mistake to be militaristic.
Cause then you're just, you have no agency.
You're just in opposition to a system and you're fully defined by it.
But then, so, you know, like we were saying, instead of being in the self soothing fighting
loop, you're, you break out of that and you're like in the agentic creating another thing
or joining another thing loop, or it's not a loop then it's like a, it's a path.
Yeah.
Um, but then in that manifestation, I think on a local level, you do have like skirmishes.
You could say like, you do have to, there are moments literally in your own mind as well.
Like literally just sitting in your living room, you know, or taking a poop, you know,
like, yeah, I think there's a sense like, Oh, it's only when I'm in this like grand,
like moments that this is happening, but it's happening all the time.
There's a lot of these skirmishes.
Yeah.
Basic features of human awareness and sensitivity and emotionality.
Just basic grasping.
Right.
Is something you don't want to fight it, but you also don't want to be captured by it.
Yeah, exactly.
And so exactly.
So that's where the partial militarism comes in, which is you do have to have some sense
of like this tactical opportunism in relation to that.
And then also on a systemic level, to some extent, like, I don't know how to put words
out and partially cause I'm also still figuring out those contours, like in a, like, you know,
on a day to day basis, I'm trying to figure out the contours of this in terms of running
the startup.
Like, where is their militarism?
Where is there just focused on this alternative path and that kind of thing?
Sure.
So I can't, I don't know yet, basically, in some sense, I have some ideas, but it's not
firm enough yet.
But what I do know is there's somewhere where you do need this tactical opportunism that
it does, that is like in some kind of confrontational relationship to Moloch, whatever you want to
call it, mainly by blocking it out.
That's the main thing it's doing.
So versus like, you're not trying to destroy it, which is, I think maybe what you're getting
at as well.
You're not trying to destroy it.
You're just trying to block it out.
And then this thing is just so good that people will like come into it.
But for this thing to be good, you do have to have like a somewhat confrontational, like
not quite confrontational.
I don't think you need to block it out at all.
No, no.
Here's why.
Any incursion toward you by this energy is pure benefit.
And again, I'm not an expert, but watching the old guys and learning with them every day
for a couple of years, because once I discovered them, I just showed up there every day.
They would always say like, someone reaching for you is a gift.
Let me show you how.
Reach for me.
Oh, my God.
The pain you would be in if you reach for them would be instantaneously.
You would realize like I've made the worst mistake of my life.
Wow.
So they would just absorb the energy of an incursion and turn it to their benefit in every
case.
Right.
And in such an anciently evolved and profound way that if there's an incursion, it just
strictly becomes a benefit for them.
Hmm.
Yeah.
That makes you think of like, there's no such thing as bad publicity.
It's very, which is, you know, like the bad publicity is an attempt to grab you and you
can like just adaptly.
Exactly.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Um, and also, you know, of those men, there were two sort of different styles, right?
The British guy, Paul, I know none of these men will mind me naming them.
I don't mind me naming them.
So the British guy, Paul, he was a fairly experienced master of a set of skills called
Chin Na, which is joint locking.
Dude, you don't want to touch that guy because he will spin you up like a fucking pretzel in
ways that will make you wish you did not have an animal.
Yikes.
I mean, and he's, you know, 78.
Uh huh.
Okay.
Um, yeah, it's a bad, bad day if you reach for him in a way that he doesn't want to be
for, or even if he's just trying to teach you a move and you law, the Frenchman, his
power was softness and he's so soft and kind of weirdly adaptively springy.
But if you touch him, it fails in a way that doesn't go well for you.
Right.
You're going to fall down and then he'll have to catch you.
And then it's very embarrassing.
And so any, any, any way that anyone ever formed up against him, it generally went really
bad for them.
Um, not in the sense that he's trying to hurt them, but in the sense of the opposite of
what they were hoping for quickly ensued.
Right.
So this is what I mean by tactical opportunism.
There's a way there's like a tangling way where you just tangle the person up or the force,
whatever it is, you tangle it up.
Um, octopuses are brilliant at this, but even praying mantises are quite good at it.
Uh, and then there's another way where you absorb the power and it just, they're no longer even
able to remain coherently structured.
Right.
Their structure just fucks up.
And it's very contagious.
Once he like, he doesn't have to touch your whole body.
Right.
If he can just get a finger on you in one spot, your whole body will inherit the falling down
from that spot.
Right.
So watching these men do this sort of thing is really fascinating for somebody who thinks
about systems and how to, A, do something different than them and succeed and B, how
to absorb resources that they use and then just redeploy them.
Right.
Or resources that are involved in them.
Um, and I think for the future, it's important that people who are listening are aware of
these options.
Um, it may be difficult to find people who could train you in such things though.
Any good teacher of martial arts or Tai Chi would give you a lot of ideas.
Right.
Um, yeah, I almost want to, well, I guess you named it already, but I almost want to like
give it more form.
Like what is, what is that skill?
Redirection.
Well, redirection feels like one skill of a batch of skills, which is, um,
So both of them understand the structure of the body very, very deeply.
Right.
That's one thing they both have.
The image that's coming to me is like linearity versus nonlinearity in the sense that, you
know, you have this force, like the way that, um, the system, et cetera, whatever you
want to call it operates is fairly linear in terms of forcing, but it also has a lot of
like tendrils, I would say.
So I, I think we do disagree on the extent to which it's fragile.
Like I think it's actually very resilient and anti-fragile and adaptive.
Um, we'll find out.
We'll find out.
Yeah.
Um, but yeah, so things that are, um, well formed up, most things that are highly structured,
they are not very flexible, I guess.
But then for me, it's, you know, I see it having existed for thousands of years and having
absorbed things like Christianity and, you know, all the other things that have happened,
you know, I mean, even like Protestantism and, you know, all these other things.
Maybe what we mean by it differs.
That's possible.
Yeah.
Um,
But I'm not opposed.
I'm not opposed to what you're saying.
Yeah.
So, but anyway, so with the skill, so there's, there's a linear force that is not attuned.
Okay.
I'll, I'll, I'll use my hands a lot for this.
So there's a, so here's the substrate of reality and then there's a linear force, which
is like not attuned to that substrate.
So it just comes like this and this kind of connects, this actually very much connects
to the guerrilla warrior in the mountains thing as well.
And like the, in Vietnam, the terrain is what won the war.
Also in South America.
And exactly.
In any guerrilla warrior situation, like knowledge of the terrain.
Draw them out of their comfortable terrain.
Exactly.
And know the terrain so well that you're like synergized with it.
So you have this linear force coming not attuned to the terrain.
Yeah.
And then you fully sink into the terrain.
So that's such that you're like co-computing with the terrain.
And then you have this tactical opportunism that almost emerges naturally because you're,
you're that you have an intuition for the terrain that can flexibly adapt to the linear
force.
Actually you've merged your intelligence with the intelligence of the terrain.
Yeah.
The terrain's intelligence is anciently old and deep and the intelligence of this linear
thing is very shallow.
Right.
Doesn't tend to go well.
So even though it has way more force, that force can be like, you know.
Yeah.
A similar thing happened in Afghanistan with both Russian invasion and the United States.
I couldn't believe the United States was invading.
I know.
Wait, you guys didn't see what just happened 15 years ago?
Yeah.
You're thinking what?
What?
What the fuck are you thinking?
Every single person knows like don't invade Afghanistan bro.
Just don't, don't even.
Just don't even try.
What?
Yeah.
Anyway.
Yeah.
It's very similar.
fruitful to like, look at these, like the U S has all its military wars have been failures
in the last few decades.
Yeah.
Um, mostly or entirely failures and all for the same reason, like literally what we're
saying right now, like that is the core essence of why those wars were lost despite overwhelming
force.
Yeah.
There's this weird thing that's in the background of our conversation, which is that the underdogs
form a sponge.
Oh, right.
They just form a sponge and it absorbs the force and, and stickily traps the opponent.
Right.
Right.
This is what happens with both Paul and Gilan.
They do that.
They're, they're spongy in this way.
Those are the Tai Chi masters.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Okay.
They're Matt.
Gilan is probably pretty close to a master.
Right.
Paul's just very skillful.
They're both old men, but I, I, I watched Gilan click.
People thought he was, he was kind of, he's like one of the doc holiday figures around here
in Tai Chi.
So people would show up at our practice area in the morning.
You're like, I want a PC.
Yeah.
Right.
A lot.
Right.
Which is hilarious.
Cause Gilan is like this loving, soft, hilarious, like playful guy.
Hmm.
And these dudes would show up with a really serious look on their face.
Hmm.
And I just feel like, Oh, you poor motherfucker.
Hmm.
Cause after the first four of those and I watched them just get ruined.
Hmm.
I was like, okay, this is going to be hilarious every time.
Yeah.
Look at that comic book.
Um, any case, uh, I just think it's important that people who've not been exposed to these
ways, these knowledge paths have some awareness that they exist.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And not, they're not just knowledge paths or also, also tangible action paths.
Yes.
And I can confirm for my own life and the lives of many people.
I know that it actually works.
Like you attuning to, in this case, it's not the physical, I mean, it's also the physical
terrain, but it's also the psychological and intuitive and spiritual terrain.
And when you attune to that, like things just work really well.
And like, you really can sponge up those forces and like on a very, like, not in a like movie
way, you know, like, cause a movie or just seeing the surface of things, like no one's
inner dialogue is revealed really, you know?
Mm-hmm .
So I'm talking really on the like, both on that level, the external level, but also in
terms of my inner life and how I'm navigating and how others and the relational webs being
built and things emerging.
Like it really, I mean, this is kind of only fully clicking for me now.
It really has that same flavor as like all these words we're talking about, but a lot
less militaristic in the energy, but the same flavor of like, there is linear force in opposition
to this, but it's just quite easy to, to just like sponge it up and with way less force,
be attuned enough that it like resurges up behind the linear force or I dunno, the metaphor
gets kind of wild there, but sure.
And it, and it works.
Like, I think that was a huge thing that I, you know, I heard a lot of people talking
about like following spirit and you know, all that kind of stuff.
And I, it, I was like, there's no way, you know?
Like, and then I started doing it and it, it like, it's kind of, uh, impossible to communicate
in words how well it works and how bad it can work really badly.
Like it's, there's like anything you got to train in it and you know, you can't just like
one day just like, you know, suddenly know the terrain, you know, it's like a, it's a
learning process and a tuning process.
So it's not immediately works perfectly, but it works like the core energy of it works so
fucking well.
There's something you said earlier that's super important, which is the difference
between giving something lip service and actually doing it.
And you were talking about this in terms of farming, like forming a farm and stuff like
that.
People have the difference between them having a dream of something and actually engaging
in the process of chasing it.
And those are, they're not always, um, entirely distinct, but they're really, really different.
And a lot, it's not uncommon that people who talk about, you know, living in the spirit
and so forth, which I'm putting weird scare quotes around.
Yeah.
It's no, no, understand.
It's not uncommon.
It's a corrupted phrase, even though it points to something.
Yeah.
It's highly value laden with a bunch of nonsense, little branches on, on a tree that is probably
a real tree.
Right.
So, uh, it's just really, it's challenging for some, so it's sometimes challenging for
some of us, myself included.
Um, when I hear certain phrases and I'm not connected with doing something and the person
that I'm with, we're not actually doing something.
We're just talking, for example, although talking isn't an action.
Um, I get, I can get itchy about it, uh, much as I think you can.
Yeah.
I just want to really highlight the difference between some conversations are actually, um,
effectively preparatory toward the transition into inaction, embodiment.
Right.
And other sorts of those conversations are like this kind of self soothing thing you're
talking about.
Yeah.
Right.
Yeah.
They actually lead to the non inaction of the thing.
Right.
Yeah.
No, literally.
And that's the problem that I'm having.
And it's hard to articulate that.
So I'm sorry it took you that long.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And even with myself, right.
I'm not even putting this on other people.
This happens in my own mind.
Yeah.
Right.
I've noticed.
Even internal dialogue.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
There's nothing you can evade because you're aware of it.
Right.
Right.
That doesn't help you do the evasion.
Yeah.
Like you have to actually do something differently.
Once you become aware of the problem that you're being captured by this sort of fake snail
shell of that loop.
Yeah.
I think that's the big fallacy.
This is a little tangent.
The big fallacy of therapy is like, I'm aware of it.
Yeah.
Yes.
I've surfaced it in consciousness.
But nothing's changing.
Yeah.
Right.
Yeah.
But it feels like I know.
So it's good.
Yeah.
I mean, that's a big thing for me with founding flourishes and creating this like full alternative
healthcare system that is not reifying therapy as the modality for growth because it's not.
It's it is.
It's not like nothing.
And it is actually a skillful counselor.
Yeah.
It's very powerful.
Agreed.
Agreed.
A regular old therapist.
It's sort of a dice roll.
Yeah.
But at that point, it's your it's less about the therapy modality.
It's more about the human being.
It is.
That is enabling that.
So, but I'm just talking about the modality of therapy.
The fallacy that's at its root is like, I mean, you know, I know I'm kind of like straw
matting it to some extent.
No big deal.
You know, I'll leave it to people to flesh out what I'm saying.
And like, it's more a thing you got kind of got to discover, like do therapy and then
you feel this energy and kind of see what I'm saying on a deeper level than just this,
somewhat superficial way of putting it, which is knowing, knowing about it and having this
representational cognition shift in my understanding of my reality.
It doesn't automatically percolate down into all those other layers.
Correct.
Right.
So you like you had all those layers.
It can, but it's not automatically like now.
Okay.
Now my, you know, what was it?
The human being, the animal, the organism, you know, eventually, eventually you get to
the being at the top.
I go the opposite direction from most of the humans.
Yeah.
Right.
Or like being organism, animal, human, representational cognitive.
Yeah.
Exactly.
Citizen United States.
Right.
Exactly.
And therapy is operating on the representational cognitive.
Yeah.
And it doesn't automatically go up and you need other modalities or a very attuned, skilled
human.
Yeah.
Like that.
It can work there.
Yeah.
It's weird.
Um, it's like you said earlier, there are threads that go down into the body from the
rep cog system.
And so a skillful therapist can actually manipulate.
Yeah.
Even the bottom of the thread.
Yeah.
By playing up here in rep cog.
Right.
They can manipulate down in the body.
Right.
A good, a good counselor.
Totally.
But that doesn't come from the therapy modality.
It doesn't.
That comes despite the therapy modality because the human being is particularly talented
at that.
I would argue that it's, it's either an, a sort of insight skill or it's a spiritual
skill or it's a combination of those.
Right.
Right.
Yeah.
Okay.
So that was a tangent.
Remind me of what we were talking about right before the, I had such, I had so many
thoughts on it.
I forgot what the thread was.
No.
Oh, I remember now.
Okay.
Language.
I was really excited to talk about language.
Okay.
Great.
Which is a favorite topic.
I'm all in.
You just stepped into my Ferrari.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Let's start the engine.
Yeah.
Cause of what you were saying about these two different flavors of conversation.
Hmm.
And I want to like dig into like almost what do they feel like or what are their characteristics
of these two flavors?
Cause it's very hard or, and then eventually it's very easy, but at first it's very hard
to attune to like, what are these two flavors?
So one is the conversation that is towards enactment and like facilitates that process.
And the other one is the one that blocks enactment.
Mm-hmm.
Uh,
I call it making face noises.
The blocking enactment one.
Yeah.
I do it all the time by the way, just to be clear.
I'm not.
And the, I, and the blocking enactment is that self soothing energy.
Right.
But the other one also feels good.
So it's not like, Oh, if it feels good, it's self soothing.
Correct.
Uh, maybe the, the question I want to pose also for myself is like, what are the signals
that can help, you know, which type of conversation you're having?
I don't know if we can even answer that, but like, Oh yeah.
Yeah.
I mean, I think actually just asking the question, the very simple question is something like,
um, is our conversation leading towards something we can do together?
Um, cause if the answer is no, it's pretty obvious that it's not that kind of conversation.
Yeah.
Hmm.
I guess I have a broader definition of it.
Like, I think this conversation is more in the enactment because it's like, um, let me,
yeah, let me put words to it.
I'm kind of exploring this in real time.
It's all good.
Um, what I'm imagining is almost like, you know, we're, we're creating sparks and then
the sparks, like, you know, they go into the ether through this microphone and this camera,
and then they come into another person and then they can like create slash awaken, um,
some kind of structure in that person that opens the door to like some action that otherwise
was either a little bit blocked or maybe would have taken longer or wouldn't have happened
at all.
So we're maybe not enacting, but we're downstream.
There is enactment happening.
Okay.
So those kinds of conversations would seem to me to be catalytic of action.
Yeah.
They're not necessarily direct.
They're fertilizing.
Hmm.
So now this comes, this brings back the same question though.
How do you tell the difference between a discussion that's fertilizing?
Right.
And one that's spinning into the self comforting.
Right.
Exactly.
Yeah.
Which is so hard to tell.
Yeah.
I mean, you don't always have to tell that it's not like the most important thing to figure
out.
Yeah.
If, um, you know, people have different kinds of language for this.
Some I've heard the term generative, right?
We're having a generative conversation.
It's not my goal to indict any conversation that is seeking insight and learning and wants
to see better.
The people want to see better together.
They're not simply, um, dancing on the soap boxes of their pet theories, biases, history,
historical behavior or thought.
So to me, whenever people sort of get together and they're like, you know, we really let's
see better together.
Let's see beyond where we've seen before somehow, if we can.
Yeah.
That's seems fertilizing.
Generally speaking, it may not lead to action, but it will lead.
It will tend, it will have more of a potential to get outside of the self comforting loop,
right?
Because it's going to question previously held positions.
It'll draw those in usefully into question.
Right.
And that breaks up the spiral a little bit.
Yeah.
What are your thoughts?
Yeah.
The, I, the seeing better together feels like the essential thing.
Do I feel like we're trying to see better together?
And I don't know what the right signal is for that.
But, um, that feels essential though.
Cause, uh, cause if it's, it can still feel really good to see better together.
Cause you know, one thing you could say like, Oh, it feels uncomfortable.
Cause my beliefs are updating.
But like maybe you are, you already with the, like in our case, for example, we already
have a lot of similar site.
So us seeing better together.
It's not like we're like, Oh my God, like my world's getting shattered.
It's more like, you know, Oh my God, I can see a little higher.
You know, it's so it's, it feels really good.
Um, so maybe it's, we're in danger of self comforting.
Well, no, we are, but I don't think we're in that trap.
I mean, who knows?
Yeah.
Let's find out.
Yeah.
It feels like we're not, not because it's feeling uncomfortable, but like, yeah.
Cause I think self, you know, self soothing obviously feels for the, actually it feels,
I think if maybe this is a, and you know, I'm kind of spitballing here, but a piece of
that is also, there's some slight feeling of sliminess or numbness at the root of it when
you're in the self soothing.
Yeah.
At least for me, it lives.
I often feel it in my shoulders kind of, and you know, like there's just like, there's
just like, there's just a very soft slight numbness or something.
Yeah.
I get gut tension.
Yeah, exactly.
And like, I get slightly more fatigued.
Sometimes I'll have like forced manic energy from it, but there'll be like an underlying
fatigue that's there or something.
And so there's, I think there's a lot of like, if you really attune to your body, maybe
that's the simple answer.
Like your body will tell you.
I like that.
If you're really attuned to it, like, on all the levels.
It's way older than anything you can think.
Yeah.
Literally older than what, how the age of the humans are described to the universe.
So that shit is old.
Yeah.
You can probably trust it.
Yeah.
It's hard to stay intellectually sharp and pay a lot of attention to my body.
Well, yeah, it would get challenging there.
Yeah.
Okay.
There's some other topics I hope to explore.
How are we on time?
Do you think?
Um, 736, I have to pee.
So in any case, I'm going to go pee.
Yeah, we can.
Um, so maybe we can pause.
Yep.
I'm good.
I said I'd show up like 830 to 9 at where I'm going next.
Okay.
So I'm, we still got some time.
Yeah.
Great.
I'm going to leave it running.
Leave it running.
And I'll just cut it out later.
Cool.
If even necessary.
Okay.
I'm sorry.
Okay.
Okay.
Yeah.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
So.
Okay.
All right.
Okay.
Oh, so we're going to do this.
I can't think of so.
I'm going to leave it running.
So.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
All right.
Okay.
Let's go.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
I can sense when you're tired and stuff.
Yeah.
I'd love to know where that comes from.
I've studied it a lot.
I have no idea why it is so.
Have you ever been hypnotized?
I haven't.
I remember you've asked me this before,
but I have yet to.
It is the trippiest fucking thing.
Yeah, I remember the first time it happened to me.
It was pretty mind-blowing.
Are we still recording?
Oh, okay, cool.
Yeah, it took like 15 seconds or less.
Someone's just standing in front of me like,
would you like to feel better right now?
And I was like, yeah.
And they're going, okay, I'm going to touch you between your eyes.
When I do, you're going to feel a whole lot better.
I touch you between my eyes and the whole world changed.
And I was like, what?
What?
What is this?
What does that even mean?
Like, what could that mean?
You know, we think we know.
It reminds me of the Tai Chi guy in a way.
Yeah.
It really is kind of similar.
There's so many.
I think I have a book on my shelves called
The Future of the Body somewhere up there,
although it's buried behind some other books at the moment.
It's very interesting.
Let me just see if it's sitting here.
Yeah, there it is.
Murphy.
The Future of the Body.
It talks, it's a broad exploration of non-ordinary features of being human.
Last week, I had the extremely joyful pleasure of interviewing Marla Freese.
She's a psychic.
She talks to dead people all the time.
She's actually the real thing.
She can do what she says.
One time we were talking,
and she led me up my front stairs,
in through my front door,
told me it was in each room,
you know,
in 18 statements with no questions.
There's no cold reading going on here.
This is like someone who can see inside my house
while we're on the phone together.
Oh, okay.
So yeah, we're on the phone.
She's in LA.
She's like,
okay, you got this many steps in front of your house.
I met someone who could do that with my house, too.
So yeah.
Doors on the left, you know, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
I've actually done something similar myself.
I know what they're doing, essentially.
At least I think I do.
I've had the experience of doing it.
So yeah, there's all these.
This goes back to the idea that whatever the hell we are,
a very tiny portion of it is human.
And even that portion,
like whatever the sort of circle of our humanity is,
what we've got,
what we're thinking about and touching
is like 2% of that circle or something, right?
Yeah.
So there's like these much bigger circles that we are.
And we're touching just a tiny little features of this in here.
Yeah.
And part of what a good counselor is,
is someone who's just like,
hey, let's broaden that scope a little.
Let's give you a little more experience
of what you can be and who you are and blah, blah, blah, right?
The thing is, though,
I think the counselor,
you know,
we have this and the counselor helps you go to this,
which feels awesome and is great.
It is great.
But like,
you know,
and that's...
They don't blow you out.
Exactly.
And that's where we need other modalities,
some of which already exist,
some of which are still being developed.
That get you to like,
it literally feels like being God at this stage.
Not like God in the sense that you have control,
but God is like...
I would say it's so funny.
I would say it negatively.
I don't know why,
but it just occurred to me,
I would say it like,
it doesn't feel like not being God anymore.
Yeah.
Yes.
That's so much better.
That's so much better.
I don't know why I wanted that.
No, that is so much better.
Okay, okay, great.
It's true,
because you're like,
holy, I've been this all along,
you know, like,
yeah.
I've been this all along
and I've been wondering why I forgot,
you know,
like,
that's the feeling when I'm tapped into that.
I'm like,
why did I forget that this is what I already am?
Like, it's weird.
Yeah, this is weird.
I love this old Greek word,
anamnesis,
unforgetting.
Unforgetting.
It's the opposite of amnesia.
Right, right.
And so,
I think we're probably born
fairly enlightened
and I also think there are non-human intelligences
with us when we're little.
Oh, for sure.
I've held a five-day-old baby
and I was like,
what?
Yeah.
At my son's birth,
I was like,
wait, angels come?
Yeah.
Babies are born?
What?
You know,
there's amnes.
I mean,
I could not see them,
but it was obvious.
Yeah.
They're there.
Oh,
it's also been like that for me at weddings too
and deaths.
Those three things,
weddings,
births,
and deaths.
Yeah.
But,
okay,
so there's this whole domain
of non-ordinary experiences
that fascinate me
and many of the people
with whom I love to talk
are fascinated
or have direct experience of this.
I think we mostly have things backwards
in that the ordinary
is mostly like a kind of a prison system.
Now,
what I don't mean
is that washing the dishes
or, you know,
like chocolate would carry water.
those things
have a non-ordinary aspect
that's infinitely deep
even though they're ordinary.
I feel like that's the Buddhist
inside of like
the bowl of rice
is the universe.
Like chopping wood
is the universe.
Like it's full stack,
you know,
already.
Yeah.
So I'm not casting shade on that
when I say ordinary.
When I say,
when I'm using the word
in this conversation right now,
what I mean is
how we usually think,
feel,
and act
as isolated humans.
That's what I mean.
Yeah.
But I want to talk about
at least one of the two topics
that we probably don't have time
to explore deeply
but we could touch on maybe.
I might get a second wave of energy
so we'll see.
Okay.
So.
I already feel myself
pepping up somewhat.
Yeah, it's not water.
It is, yeah.
I have studied
how humans respond
to observation
and I am extremely...
Being observed.
Not just to being observed
but to the idea
that they might be being observed.
Yeah.
And what might be observing them
and why.
So humans, it turns out,
are incredibly tropic
toward observational situations.
In the sense that they pay
a lot of attention to them
and some humans,
some unusually minded humans,
get so focused
on the possibility
of being observed,
particularly negatively,
though you can see with things like rock stars
and so on
that the opportunity for positive observation
in crowds is compelling.
But I'm concerned here primarily
with the possibilities
of negative observation,
critical,
critical and or
persecutory observation.
So in schizophrenics,
for example,
realizing that the term is outdated
and that labels are weird,
all that's just granted.
I'm just using the term casually.
What happens is
that parts of the mind split off
and they begin simulating
what often happens.
Parts of the mind split off
and they simulate
negative observation
and all kinds of trouble ensues.
We are being...
Like the other,
the part of the mind
that's split off
is negatively observing
the rest of the mind?
The part of the mind
that splits off
begins to simulate
possible negative observers,
including God,
the government,
China,
I mean,
you name it, right?
Joe up the street.
Right.
You can imagine
endless droves
of negative,
critical observers
and this part of the mind
can just sort of bubble,
right,
and just start producing
simulated negative observations.
Observer systems.
And once that happens,
that part of the mind,
that aspect of awareness,
it eats a lot of energy
and so it naturally
wants to be sustained, right?
It thinks of itself
as doing an important function
and so on.
It also...
So I'm aware of these things.
Humans are observation-centric.
When you and I come together
and we talk,
there's this positive observation
that happens between us,
which is very...
nourishing and catalyzing
and fertile for me.
As in us
observing each other, right?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Positively observing each other.
Like,
I'm so happy you're here.
You're amazing.
I love you.
Yes, what have you got?
What's your brain today?
I can't wait.
Fuck yeah.
I like what I said.
Mr. Rogers' Neighborhood.
I mean, I'm from the 60s,
so that's a trope.
But it strikes me
that if we cannot have
the felt sense
or reasonable assurance
of privacy,
we will not know
what our minds can be
because our minds
will necessarily edit themselves
based on what they think
the repercussions
of being observed
will be.
So,
I have a big investment.
It could be a pipe dream,
but I have a big investment
in the possibility
of humans,
modern humans,
using technology,
having private conversations.
What are your thoughts?
Using technology,
having private conversations.
What do you mean?
Having the assurance
of privacy
in a technological conversation,
say, over a phone
or, you know,
any kind of system.
Yeah.
I'm thinking,
because there's people
who just don't care
about observation that much.
They're lying.
They will not,
they are editing their minds
moment to moment.
Most people are not aware
of what their mind is doing.
Right, so you're saying
that they're intrinsic,
it's intrinsic to being human.
It's not impossible
that you couldn't care.
It's wildly unlikely.
Yeah.
Your psyche is watching,
okay,
there are layers
of consciousness
and some of what I would call
the deeper layers,
which are not available
to ordinary consciousness,
and I can show you
those things.
Like, these are real things.
They are aware of nuances
on a level
you cannot imagine.
They're like a baby
listening to its mother
talking and it doesn't
speak English.
Right.
That baby knows
it's like its survival
depends on every nuance
that's coming out
of its mother's mouth.
Right.
It is aware
of very complex
manifolds
of opportunity,
threat,
all these things.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I mean,
there's a few thoughts coming.
One is like the,
there's a lot of,
there's a large possibility
space in that observational
dynamic.
Like,
for example,
our previous conversation
orbited this.
Yeah.
Like,
for example,
wanting someone else
to see you
as being free
from observation,
for example.
So,
that's almost like
a short-circuiting
system
because then you're still
in the loop
of caring
what someone thinks
about you.
but what you want
them to be thinking
is that you don't care
what they think about you
so then it almost
like frees you
from that loop.
I've definitely met
people that are in that
and know people
personally.
I mean,
that's funny
because that seems
to be,
I know this is
a weird aside,
but that seems
to be like a,
an asserted virtue
of pickup culture.
Let her know
you don't give a shit
what people think about.
Yeah,
true actually.
Yeah,
well,
and for,
probably for good reason
because I think
it indicates
that you have
high agency.
Yeah,
it's also assigned
confidence
and other,
you know,
conceivably valued.
Right.
There's actually,
this is reminding me
of a study
that powerful people,
they're,
I forget which part
of the brain it was,
but the part
of the brain
that helps them
attune to other people
is literally
like somewhat withered.
Yeah,
so checked out.
No,
they actually,
some of the
synapses have like
disappeared.
A lot of them have
and like you can
actually see it
in the MRIs.
You can see the
difference in activation.
Yeah,
yeah.
Which points to
this thing where like
that it can atrophy
in a way,
yeah,
like pretty strongly.
I mean,
most parts of the brain
do undergo atrophy
even just over aging
or by through
illness or injury,
but it's weird.
Or like lack of use,
yeah.
Yeah,
but it's also weird
because
humans are so much
different than how
we frame and imagine
them in the sense
that damage,
injury,
and atrophy
cause,
okay,
it's not that nature
hates the vacuum.
Nature doesn't mind
vacuums,
but she doesn't like
this wild imbalance.
So if something
disappears over here,
it's very uncommon
that new things
don't appear over here
too.
It's not never,
but it matters.
I think what I'm chasing
could be a bit
of a pipe dream
because for as long
as we have technology,
we're going to be
subject to being
nefariously observed.
But I'd like to,
I'm fascinated by the
concept of building
systems that are
unobservable.
Yeah,
I was actually feeling
this on the way here.
I tried a Waymo
for the first time,
which is these like
self-driving cars
that,
you know,
are all over SF now.
I hated it actually,
which I didn't expect.
And I was texting
my partner about it
and she said like,
you know,
she got like,
felt a lot of
contraction in her body
like when I told her
I was getting into one.
But she told me
that after I hated it,
so my hating it
was prior to that comment.
But the,
I felt very observed.
I mean,
I was being observed.
There's like a camera
in there,
you know,
and like the,
you know,
like if I'm in an Uber,
the only other entity
is the person driving
who's just looking
at the road,
you know,
and is maybe
listening to my conversation
or maybe looks back
every now and then,
but it's clear
what that other entity
is doing observationally.
Whereas in the Waymo,
I mean,
the entity,
the other entity
is the entire fucking car
with cameras.
And it's like,
you know,
I took off my seatbelt
because I wanted
to take off my jacket.
Just take off my seatbelt.
The whole car started blaring
like,
put on your seatbelt.
So there's just this.
There's a comedy skit here.
Waymo stands for
way more observation
than you want.
Right?
Yeah.
And it's,
there's no location.
It's not physically located.
So it could be anywhere.
And I really was feeling that
like it feels like
it's just all around me.
And this thing
is observing everything
around me too.
Like it's observing me internally.
It's observing the entire road.
You know,
whereas the driver
has like,
they have their eyes
and they're,
you know,
they're and they're building
the mental model.
Whereas the Waymo constantly
has eyes all around it.
And there's,
I mean,
you know,
in terms of how that
affects me
as a being
inside that car,
it was a very unpleasant feeling
of like
entrapment.
And
I guess like
to what you're saying,
like I felt very
observed
and it caused me
to feel more like
constrained into norms,
which is like weird
because you would think
it'd be the opposite
because there's no driver.
So there's no other
observational.
That's what I was expecting.
There's no other
observational entity.
See,
this goes way
but it was the opposite,
which is interesting.
into my homily
about
absences
appearing as presences.
Right?
Oh.
You're having an extreme
experience
of the absence
of humans
appearing as
the presence
of threat
or, you know,
the presence
of at least
discomfort.
Yeah.
Significant bodily
discomfort.
Yeah.
And it's,
I mean,
there's so many other questions.
But there is the presence
of the AI as well.
But it's true.
I guess it's not really
like a,
it's not really a presence
in a way.
Yeah,
you're right.
If you have no idea
how to parse
your safety,
you can't tell anything
about the opportunity
or threat landscape
once you step
into that thing.
Oh my gosh.
Wow.
There are zero inputs
for you.
None.
All the inputs
are outside of you
and your capacity
to make any kind
of judgment
about your well-being
have disappeared.
That's crazy.
Yeah.
Something just clicked
for me in that.
Yeah.
It's a catastrophic
subtractions,
array of subtractions.
Right?
It's like the
computer says what?
Convenience.
Wake up, people.
Yeah.
Wake the fuck up.
Convenience.
There are two things.
There are maybe
three things.
Convenience.
Safety.
Safety is your friend.
Right?
Yeah.
And then advertising
and or pornography.
Like both of those
two things basically
are the same thing.
Yeah.
Yeah, that's crazy.
It ties to the vigilance
stuff we were talking
about last time.
It does very deeply.
And that car was,
and this isn't,
none of this was
like consciously
happening really.
And nor was it
like sharp.
Like it's not like
I was like,
oh, I am more vigilant now.
It was just kind of
a vague discomfort
and now that we're
talking about it
I can kind of
point to it.
But yeah,
there was just this,
my vigilance
could no longer
just my,
just not vigilance
in like an anxious
kind of way
but just my basic
vigilance as a being
instead of being
like tied to an
individual
and you know
I trust this person
to drive well.
Because they've done it
many times before.
And I mean
I'm sure the AI
has also done it
many times as well.
So it's not like
it's not materially.
I would argue
that the AI
doesn't do things
but please feel free.
Fair enough,
fair enough.
But I think
what I'm getting at
is like
it's not because
I'm tangibly
less safe
necessarily.
Maybe I am.
How would you know?
That's the point.
I don't know
and like in terms
of my,
not my representational
cognition
because that layer
can be like
okay the AI
is trained
blah blah blah.
But in terms
of my being
I'm like
there's no being
I'm in this
I'm floating.
Who are the beings
that are currently
keeping me safe?
I mean even in death.
Who is the tribe?
You know
what's going on here?
Even in death
you've got more
you've probably got
more you know
more beings
walking you through
the tunnel
than that.
That's like pure
absence.
And it's being
it's the same
fucking thing
we were talking
about where
like you take
everything away
and then you give
them the wrapping
paper.
Right.
Right.
Yeah well we got
a really
really talented
machine.
Right.
It's got your
back bro.
What?
It doesn't have
a back.
How can it have
my back?
It doesn't know
what backs are.
It doesn't know.
Yeah.
There's no knowledge
in there at all.
There's no
it's it has no
skin in the game
because it has
no skin.
And then you
got the voice
stuff.
You know like
it has the human
voice.
So I did a little
side way for this
part to tell me
all about it.
So there's two
thoughts.
One is so I did
a side job once
where I was
training in AI
like like the
big ones.
Like I had a
meta AI project
like Facebook's
and Gemini
like Google
Gemini.
And there's
like literally
like hundreds
of thousands
people around
the world
who receive
bad answers
and then
rewrite those
answers to be
better or they
select between
different answers
like you know
there's various
ways to do it
but it's
humans training
the AI to be
better directly.
So there's a lot
of like you know
what's in the black
box.
A lot of it is
literally just
humans selecting
good answers.
So AI is less
self-generated than
people think.
By the way this is
what I mean by
a curated
database.
Yeah right
exactly.
A database can't
curate itself
you need humans
to curate the
database.
Yeah and there's
literally hundreds
of thousands of
people who are
employed including
people with like
very good
educations like
me who like
there's a lot of
like elite trained
people doing this
as well.
It's not just like
people in Bangladesh
or something.
I got you.
And it paid
pretty well as well
like you know
there's also poorly
paid versions of it
but there's also a
well-paying version
of it that employs
a lot of people.
I just saw that
and thought it was
a snake which is
really interesting
because snakes are
major imagery in my
life.
Mine too.
Oh yeah cool.
So that's kind of
a nice coincidence
but anyways.
I'm glad that you
thought it was
possible there could
be a live snake
in my room.
I'm very happy
about that.
Please continue.
Yeah okay well
that kind of
distracted me actually
so let me see where
that's making me
want to go.
Oh yeah okay
so the AI being
trained.
Yeah and some of
the questions that
people are asking
because you basically
get like the
conversation history
of someone's asking
this thing a question
and a lot of these
people are relating
to it like as an
entity.
Yes.
You know like it's
not just hard not to.
Yeah exactly it's
hard not to and it's
answering as an
entity and it's
trained to answer as
an entity.
and then there's the
absence but it's an
absence of humans
and you go and I've
actually started noticing
this in myself like
sometimes like in the
past few days especially
because I'm in a new
place you know and
there's less of like a
human relational field
here that's really deep
even though I'm having
great connections with
people that's not the
issue but like then I'm
back in my room alone
and I'm like and then I
noticed there's like a
little poll of like
talking to chat GPT which
I've never indulged that
urge and I don't think I
ever will just to do it
casually but it's
interesting to notice
that and I've it's
really it's such a
distinct feeling like I
have a vacuum right now
and I want to fill it
with this wrapping paper.
No no there's something
much weirder which is
that you're in its
terrain.
And that that's
actually really
interesting.
There's so many things
here we could talk
about so the human
scene because I've never
had that urge in
Asheville.
Yeah the human
seem to think that
first of all I've only
met very few humans
that have any concept
of what I call the
cognizant which is a
network of human
minds and by the way
the whole planet is a
layered array in this
toy in this perspective
it's a layered array of
cognizant starting with
viruses cells complex
or plants complex
organisms right each of
these things have their
own sort of branch of
the cognizant but the
humans think that
they're they don't
believe in the
cognizant they don't
think that exists they
think you have separate
minds right and they
treat everything this
way and they think
this way yeah that's
actually formally
impossible there's no
chance of you having a
separate mind but we
believe that and they
also think that the
machines that they're
making aren't connected
to them they think
their minds are separate
from the AIs there's no
chance of that being
true once it's affecting
humans it's affecting
you it doesn't matter if
you live in the mountains
you know where you can
go right there's a layer
of reality that the
cognizant is and it's
just like an environment
but it's invisible and
so if you put a machine
that touches that
environment intimately
so yeah I would argue
that you're actually
feeling the difference
between being next door
to the systems that are
that are this that are
making this and being
far from them but
interacting with them and
so you're feeling the
gravity of the locality of
that of that domination
right over the human
cognizant locally to the
right interesting that's
interesting tech tech was
born because I've also
been going on Facebook and
Twitter way more this past
week and they're also
literally see this is the
other thing it doesn't
have to be the machine it
can be that the humans
around you are doing it
both of those things would
be gravitic right right
right and you it would be
really difficult to identify
that gravity if you weren't
familiar with its with its
characteristics so that you
say like oh I just saw
this cue here that now I
sense that this is what's
going on it would just be
hard for you to come up
with that on your own
yeah not impossible but
difficult yeah yeah so
you're around people who
are doing this all the
time and a lot of those
people are isolated in
various ways or they have
brief intense social
contact and they retreat to
isolation again yeah right
so yeah I'm claiming that
this is a feature of the
change in the local
cognition hmm that's really
fascinating that makes a
lot of sense to me and I'm
excited because I'm flying
out literally in like in
four hours my flight leaves
yeah I'll be missing you
yeah but we got to do this
remotely yeah for sure and
I'll be back as well like I
feel like I've built a
mycelial network here that
that feels quite good
overall and I can't spend
more than 10 days here I
think because of
right it's like sunburn
yeah right it's not
literally like the sunburn
of the tech sun power tech
startup thing it's I've been
here for 40 years and
nearly nowhere else right I
mean you must be sunburned
yeah I'm crispy inside but
soft on the outside right
um but yeah it's going to be
very interesting you know and
I'm my partner's picking me
up and I've got like a
reading group looking at
Joseph Campbell like
immediately when I get
back right on I'm going to
be in the forest which you
know I live in the forest
like my roommates imagine
that yeah it's going to be
very that's like something
that happens after I die or
whatever yeah so that's
going to it's going to be I'm
going to feel that it's like
basically what I'm saying is
I'm going immediately as soon
as I land into the like I'm
immediately entering the
fullness of that cognizant and
I'll probably like write about
that translation yeah yeah
yeah like it's just going to
be a lot and the best of ways
and um and yeah that brings me
to like what what about the
people here I mean yourself
included like what do you how
are you guys surviving like
what are you going to do like
how do you make your way
through this you know luckily I
don't live here so I can after
11 days leave but if I was
here I don't know what I
would do honestly I'm like
a space fan right I'm
subjected to hard radiation
isolation and so forth but I
learn things that are really
difficult to learn in right I
I acquire intelligence so I'm
tactically opportunistic and I
acquire I acquire I like to
think that I acquire intelligence
that will be useful to the
other beings that they can
actually enact in meaningful
ways yeah so it's a little
bit like you know self
sacrificing if you if you look
at it this way this isn't the
way I look at it all the time
yeah I'm just responding to
your question yeah yeah right
unlike a guy that gets in a
spaceship and takes the risk and
goes right to see what can be
seen cool I'm glad you're doing
that you know I hope I know it's
really tough it's not easy yeah
but you're definitely succeeding
thank you impacting me and you
know many people that I've
introduced to you yeah yeah beyond
that as well the web yeah that is
impacted yeah yeah I still think
so I'm very grateful for those
comments
I know that I change what I not
merely what I will say but what I
will think depending on my
analysis of the threat landscape of
observers hmm yeah yeah I do yeah
me too yeah but that's the thing
what if there is no threat
landscape I mean like if you were
very safe like or what if you just
presume that it doesn't matter well I
don't know can you I think you're
unconscious can't yeah yeah I mean you
could train yourself to I suspect
actually that what makes you on
powerful is something like that he's
focusing all his energy in a
completely different place because if
he focuses it on threat he'll tense
up in the moment he tense up he'll
fall down hmm right so I think there
are methods that are important that
are inactable and bought that it can
be embodied where you just drop the
whole threat thing right I think it
sounds like because you're so
agentically confident in your ability
to handle threats something a little
weirder perhaps a combination I would
I would suggest that what actually
works is a form of active communion
where you are spiritually held in
safety and therefore you don't have to
concern yourself with threats at all
you just add from spirit heart
integrity love no matter what if they
draw swords it's the same as if they
don't right and that I mean I'm
speaking a kind of a darinistic science
fiction here because I don't know if I
can pull something like that off but
there are moments where we do I
remember one day I was with a poet the
son of two brilliant poets um Ted
Berrigan and Ted Berrigan and Alice
Notley their son Anselm was here he was
a young kid he was like 24 we're
writing poems together and we went out
front to have a cigarette this may be
too long story I can make it really
short the crack dealing neighbors next
door had two enormous pit bulls that
could literally eat their way through an
anvil okay I'm not fucking kidding
dogs had heads like this oh my god and
they somehow there was a series of
errors where all the doors between the
back of their house and the front of
their house were simultaneously left
open and both of those dogs escaped oh
my god and they came barreling down their
front steps skidding like snarling and
drooling and skidding on the sidewalk
they're so desperate to get to my body and
rip it to shreds oh my god but they're
literally like like a cartoon like
skidding oh my god yeah yeah like just
two demons you know yikes and I'm like
sitting I'm standing out in front with my
hand on my hip I got a cigarette and I'm
like just watching them I'm watching my
death you know I'm gone there's nothing I
can do yeah and Anselm's kind of looking
at me and they come snarling you know
like two fucking demons from hell snarling
up to me and and I don't do anything I
just sort of look at them I don't change
my posture I don't tense up not because
I'm smart or brilliant or skillful or any
of that just accidentally I don't right and
they get close enough to me that the one
of them realizes like I'm not doing
anything and it kind of looks it gets
like a funny look on its face and it sort
of turns around for encouragement to the
one behind it and the one behind it goes
like fuck and then it looks at me and it looks
kind of embarrassed and they just turn
around and trot back home and go back to the
stairs
oh my god that reminds me of NBC is like
when you attune to the other person's
feelings and needs and when you do it
skillfully like Marshall Rosenberg the
founder like he has videos where he does
this and for example he went to like
refugee camps and like in you know
Israel and Palestine and like you know
where the Israelis and the Palestinians
were like at each other's throats and like
in such hatred and he guided them through
and then it just dissolved and they ended
up like hugging each other and like being
like brothers in in humanity and yeah so
there's something about when you like the
the response of how you respond and like
you know there's there's always a two-way
energetic thing and if you know there's
if aggression is coming from one side the
default is to respond with aggression or
fight or flight or basically to respond to
it but if you don't respond to it but
instead like agentically relate to it in a
whole different way like aggression is
not a source emotion like it comes from
something else so if you like come at it
with a different thing or not like can't
embrace it or something I don't know what
the right word is there then the
aggression dissolves and whatever underlying
emotion you know sadness or hurt or just
like instinct you know or whatever it is
like gets more spaciousness and then like
the aggression do you see what I mean
aggression is not like is not the the
source energy it's the emergent energy from
a source energy and you can relate to it in
a way that it dissolves and you get to the
source energy which is by the way so true
as well of this like the the system we're in
and like the root energy of domination is
also not domination or aggression or violence
those are all like emerging from a deeper
source energy and I think this is the big
beautiful thing that hopefully will happen
in the next few decades and in any case the
next 300 years is you know the angelic divine
force that humans channel will gradually come
to connect to that root source energy of this
like dominating system and embrace it and then
that domination is all going to dissolve and
that root energy is what's going to be more
alive and there's so much like grief and
healing and you know there's it's it's coming
from a lot of hurt and sadness and you know
needs not being met so it's not going to be
like a you know everyone running in the fields
together kind of thing there's going to be a
lot of like despair and grief and sadness but
yeah in a in a in a way where we're like oh my
god finally we're feeling like the truth at the
core of all this domination i wonder if there
needs to be all that sadness and despair
because there's a peculiar feature of our
humanity that when freed of its history is
really free right do we really need to to
reprocess the history yeah it's a question i
had an experience i think we need to feel it
which maybe doesn't have to look like grief
but some kind of like catharsis i think does
have to happen because our bodies you know
like you know they store which which could
look like total softening but in the
softening i think a lot would emerge or
yeah it's it's hard to say because we
haven't really done it at scale in that
kind of way yet so it's it's kind of hard to
predict but i strongly suspect that for most of
human history humans were not how do you put
this so you said something about like angels
um indwelling within us and all this kind of
thing that would transform the sort of the human
experience and also the cognition and also like us being angels
yeah see this or like maybe not individually but no if we're in the
isolated human state but when we are in the collective we like become like one
big angel almost yes or not a literal angel entity but
uh the energy of an angel yeah so there's so many things here i i want to be
careful not to um branch again but i'm working on an
essay i may have mentioned it previously it's not like the greatest essay i've ever
written or anything but the concept is quite important which is that organisms
are a platform for the physicalization of non-corporeal
intelligences and i strongly suspect that long ago this
was super common we knew we this was our day-to-day
experience yeah and it might it's really hard for us
and agonizing and this is another thing that's absent
that i think um contributes to us being captured
uh it's try to imagine
the spiritual pain of bees on a world without flowers
what would they do and i think we're kind of like this we're like fish who've
never seen water we have a lot of stories about water we even have like rituals
about trying to make the water come again yeah all the churches and stuff like
this right right we're really trying hard to bring the
water we'll do anything can we have the water why do you not have
the water you're a bad human that's why the water went away you're bad
yeah you know it was your sin that caused the water to go away
yeah i mean even in my own experience um losing contact with what i refer to as
toy maker was both a huge relief because it was hard to survive moment to
moment it was so intense but it was also like why did you go
away you know am i bad did i do the wrong
thing did i get it wrong did i make a mistake
all these questions which are natural to a child
right who's sort of guiding being disappears
and i think in childhood as these intelligences
um as our connect not our connection as their
as their as we lose intimacy as we lose active intimacy with them over time
we naturally transfer the expectation of that intimacy onto our parents
and then onto our culture right right exactly and we find that they are
missing we expect them we just presume that we're confused
right at first we're just like no i'm just confused of course my parents will
become that of course my culture will become that so we transfer those
expectations onto those features or beings and then over time we
find out like no they were actually as confused as they looked it wasn't me that
was confused yeah yeah they're actually missing the things that i turned to them
in hopes of re-commuting with
um i i suspect that they're that the universe is very complex
in terms of the intelligences that indwell in it and there are probably
intelligences that are um
more or less uh what is the right word
extractive right and there are intelligences that are more or less
beneficent or altruistic
um unfortunately just like everywhere else the extractive ones tend to be a little
more domineering yeah right you know they're really yeah they're really um
they're really technically facile at extraction shit and more crucially than that they've
created a world in which their domineering energy can flow much more easily and in
which the beneficent the energies of the beneficent entities
get this redirect exactly yeah yeah because if you're in a forest it's you know like deep in a
forest not like a park or something like the whole landscape changes and all these all these like
extractive domineer entities like they have a lot less forests and although you can feel the
beneficent ones much more yes it's true i mean this is the whole idea i mean in a way this is what
the elves and the fairies yeah right exactly which is why this like i i'm very adamant about
continuously using the mountain elf even though elf you know a lot of people respond like oh it's
childish or whatever but it's not and it's i mean it is in the domineering phrase shit like
that i'm like have you spent much time with children lately yeah what's your idea of children
are you perhaps a little confused about this because it's the adults that are the problem
primarily right yeah you know but when people use the word child ish they usually mean like
immature right right they say childlike then they're invoking the powers of the child yeah
and to me it's the opposite it's childish not to relate to those archetypes because like elf is a
specific archetype that shows up throughout lots of different mythical lores and represents you know
it's like this ancient species right it's more ancient than humans it has more wisdom it has more
technology elves are usually more technologically advanced but the technology is really smoothly
integrated with the environment around them and they have they also have like ritual and these
things we would associate with like societies that are like less civilization advanced and yet the
elves are more civilization advanced and have integrated those rituals so to me it's a really
potent mythical archetype that is not i'm not just like pulling pulling it out of myth for convenience
it's already ingrained in our collective psyche and not just our western psyche but it's like a it's
like a built-in image it is that it's not image an archetype a mythical archetype that is like it's it's
literally pointing at an energy that's already inside of us it's not a convenient label that makes
sense agree yeah i like your defense um or your assertion
um there's a thing i wanted to say about that unless you want to yeah yeah um on the stuff you were
saying before um there's so many things to track at this point so i'm sure but i love it because
i think we're we're on the list yeah exactly yeah whoop it's okay um do you need to answer it or it's
okay uh by the way welcome to 1960s my landline just run yeah that's true yeah i was like something
is weird and that's what it was um yeah i had this moment i think it was during my birthday my last
birthday like nine months ago or so i believe where i was with my partner at the time no no it was her
birthday it was her birthday so it was even longer ago it's like one and a half because we've since
broken up so this was one and a half years ago um and i uh had gotten her flute along with a friend
of mine like a native american flute um and we went to this like spot in the forest like in a national
park uh like a ritual spot and set up a little ritual and like gave her the flute and like invoked
the energy of the flute for her and like my wishes for it and um and then we did a rewilding ritual which
just means we each went off on our own and like connected to the forest spirits and you know
communed with whatever wanted to be communed with and it was getting dark as well so it was like we
started in daylight and by the end it was dark uh which was an essential piece because as the dark
came i noticed my whole body shifted to like i i was and i didn't even notice this until like
10 minutes in or something i was like well my body is literally doing the thing that like
i see hunters or whatever on t like kind of slinking through the forest you know but it was
it was very intuitive it was like total obvious it was like walking like that was the walking in
the night because i couldn't see anything so we were in the middle of the forest night couldn't see
anything or like you could vaguely kind of see outlines and stuff sure um and i was doing this
slinking and then she started playing the flute so there's this beautiful like flute music just like
through the air and there was this deep feeling and speaking of this like water that's missing
of like i'm like what i really want and when i say i i don't mean my ego but like the being that i am
and the being larger being that i'm a part of is like to completely like you know you could use the
word co-compute although it's a bit soulless but like fully be with
all of this and like i i this is already what i am i already am everything and humans are like the
like ultimate like centerface we're like the synergy yeah we are you know we aren't currently in our
current manifestation but like our fullest potential and not just our potential our basic form we're made
to be that we are literally the synergy creature that brings all the other creatures into this like
synergy yeah i call it um nature summation lens it's like a bowl in which all the gifts are gathered
up and can be organized and even distributed yeah exactly and it's so obvious and natural to me like
it's shocking that we could be without this experience again it's i'm thinking of birds nailed to walls
right you know fish born in deserts right you know like what you're like moving around this hot grainy
shit yeah you know it's so tragic totally i mean it literally having had that experience and a few
others like that and then being not in that like for example being here in the city it literally feels
like being a fish in the desert like it sucks it sucks yeah um and i only can delude myself into
thinking it's good if i haven't had that other feeling and if i i've lost hope basically i have to make
myself feel like this is good but it really is not and it's it's so good oh my god it was such a good
feeling um and i didn't even have to it there was no forcing you know i didn't have to do anything i
was just in it and i knew how to navigate the terrain and like i could like feel all these i was
like i could feel myself synergizing the spirits of the land and you know it was just a sliver and like
it was so incomplete you know because it was just that moment i mean it was a long moment but it was
like and then i got back in my car and went home you know so boom but the yeah the hope the hope
in it was natural yeah it just yeah i'll stop there i could keep going about it but i think i've said
the uh the core of it it is a
is is the wrong word
an inversion took place of the trap system and the artificial wound thing yeah and then you both
became that inversion together instead of just experience you know like i'm experiencing the
inversion no no you became the process yeah yeah coming in the humans and in you like literally
in the humans in the whole human thing and also in you as you know yeah yes exactly that's it i i
wasn't it wasn't an experience i was having right i was like i was no longer luca raid and at the
same time i was so much more deeply luca raid but it was like that's the key it breaks the experience
like having an experience like does not exist in that way of being yeah this is my point about
some of the dangers of language right there's right all these weird metaphors in english like the
container metaphor and i have a mind right blah blah blah all these weird ideas that were scripted with
that misfoot our intelligence right yeah they build expectations yeah they build resentments
um because if you if you think that assets are possessed and you're not feeling that you possess
them then that's you know resentment fear um oh god it's like owning a beautiful woman versus just
being in the presence of a beautiful woman yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah exactly this relates to the uh
lexical categories you were talking about dismissing in your relationship right we don't use these
categories we we yeah exactly communally uh experience and learn and adapt together right exactly yeah
this is so uh we can stay on this topic or we can wind down whatever feels comfortable but i want to
say something about your experience in the waymo i hope you see that it's like literally all three
things it's vigilance it's the really weird forms of ambiguity they're suddenly introduced that you
can't cope with right and how can you even make predictions uh in a space like that right right i've
i've given up my predictive power to this machine exactly really weird weird yeah um i know a number of
people who think that would be a huge relief i am not one of those people yeah um but i am
relatively naturally uh phobic it's so weird because when i was a kid i was exactly the opposite
but i'm i'm phobic toward mechanism i don't trust the humans with it and by the way the technologies
that the elves have i don't see those technologies as primarily mechanical yeah i know they're relational
technologies agreed agreed and to the extent that there is mechanism involved it's that's like
subservient to the relational it's almost emblematic it's like a sigil or something it's not
it's not a device right in the sense that we would think of devices it's also just really weird that
devices are made up of parts and there are no i don't find anything else in nature that has that quality
only things that humans make i had this argument with a bunch of philosophers one time i was like
they were talking about whether or not machines could be sent to you and i was like no they're
not connected with life they're like well what if we put one inside your brain isn't it connected then
what if i just give you an artificial sign now oh my gosh right isn't it then connected with life
and the history and future of life i'm like no actually it isn't because machines are made of parts
and organisms are holes that emerge from other holes these are not the same class of thing yeah
and they had yeah difficulty defeating that particular argument yeah i think this comes
back to the layers like in the representational cognition layer giving up your prediction to the ai
feels like a relief for empowering and convenience convenience yeah exactly well i can now read a book
yeah i can you know do it i can do nine other things right and in the representational layer
you know oh you know i just put it ai in my brain and it's a lot you know that makes sense but then
if you go down into the deeper layer i mean first of all yeah you realize that you it would not be alive
because you realize the depth of the difference between an evolved grown being and a mechanically
constructed machine like they're those are universes apart in terms of what those entities are okay you have to
think i just want to say this for people who are listening suppose they could put an artificial
synapse in my brain an artificial neuron okay the neurons in my brain are the result of the entirety
of the history at least and far beyond this but at the very least those neurons are the relational
uh uh result of the entire history of life on this world yeah and i could much more than that
but at least the entire history of the relationships yeah of living beings on this world what those
beings are doing is not computation i'm sorry i just won't believe we could call it that i'm willing
to have discussions around it but they're doing something so far beyond computation yeah and part
of the reason and not just the beings on earth but also whatever i mean we don't know the spiritual
stuff yeah yeah whatever is going on you know like the words fail active living intelligence system
right like philip k dix ballast right so these are the results of this and that means that they are
filially they are family to all of those relationships you cannot produce a device and then just put it in a
brain and have it inherit that yeah it doesn't inherit that by proximity or interaction yeah right that's
an entire myriad manifold of world lines yeah this single neuron is the living tip of that that machine
is actually the opposite of right it's it was just made now it's formed of you know little pieces
of whatever structured matter yeah these are not the same category of phenomena they must we must be
able and willing to distinguish them for sure there are ways in which we can usefully compare them
we need to know where those ways end i think agreed and we need to understand what they are as
because they do emerge from life because we created them so they're not completely disconnected
but how like the a tool the relationship of a tool to life is totally different from the relationship
of life to life it's not non-existent but it's totally different on so many levels if we could have
a vote if all life forms on earth could vote and they said like and the vote was shall we have machines
or not who would vote for machines yeah humans maybe some of them none of the other life forms would
vote for machines all like every single one of them right not be a total veto yeah right yeah so i think
it's important to think um bio relationally about the topic except maybe dogs actually maybe because
they're so dependent on here's there's some there are some um caveats right because
if they could trust the humans to be into you gotta go just looking at the time it's 8 30 let's let's
wrap up in the next like five ish minutes yeah but we don't have to rush um if they could trust that
the humans were benevolent and altruistically oriented and wouldn't misuse the machines
some of the animals might want them i've seen otters that are injured attempt to gain access to a
hospital on a video camera whoa um the weird thing about the humans is that the existence of these
things creates a situation where we turn out to be pretty much the only animal that can actively intervene
in situations where an animal is going to die or be permanently injured
um that's a slight exaggeration there are certain ways that animals can intervene they can protect
each other from a predator for example right but they probably can't do about a tumor right or a broken
bone right there's like things they just can't do dilly about if there's a mechanical problem
the humans can solve the problem is that a lot of the mechanical problems are generated by the human's
activity in the first place so but yeah the humans can solve mechanical problems that the animals can't
i think there's um of course this is exactly the same thing so uh the free diver jacques mayo he had
a friend i don't know if i can recall his name who's also a free diver italian guy there's a film about
this called the big blue it's amazing um anyway that guy was diving with his daughter at one point
and the story goes that a male dolphin chased him up to the boat and basically like drug him back down
into the water and it showed him what he believes to be its mate that was drowning trapped in web he
freed the mate she surfaced blew a bunch of bloody foam lived and then the dolphins you know like sort of
celebrated right but this is an example of humans understanding that there are certain kind of
excuse me of dolphins understanding that there are certain kinds of problems problems caused by humans
that only a human could reasonably affect it's unclear whether a dolphin was ever tangled up in a
trap before there were humans making webs making nets and another thing that i think is really interesting
to think about from the animal's perspective is it's it's also wildly unclear to me that there was
anything resembling a cage before humans started making them think about how profound that is like
there are no cages you got things like spider webs you got ambush predators they there was intended to
kill you though not to trap you like trap you in life right for purposes other than killing you
oh yeah that's fucking nefarious geez yeah right i'm just gonna put you in a box and do things to you
or not do things to you right geez yeah from now on you know this is you go nowhere huh yeah it's just a
really trippy thought that's pretty trippy yeah i do think carefully about how the world experiences humans
having tools yeah well that's where that elf thing comes in as well like the like for example with the
dolphin example or there's like technology could do a lot if it was if we were not just in
representational cognition but in that full stack and we're in our full role as synergizers it's not
like we would just stop creating technology we would but we would completely transform how we're making it
oh my god and it would be in resonance with everything so the tools would you know all the
amazing potential of those tools to synergize the natural world and i've i've felt and the natural
world like wanting that like it's the natural you know some people have the narrative the natural would
prefer there not to be humans it would probably prefer there to be no humans than the current form
of humans but it wants humans oh it would raise up you know it would raise up another form as the
synergizer if we disappear give yeah if it could right right right right if there was enough uh
diversity left to pull that all interesting yeah but there's some other so i think i think the key
point is that it wants us to step into our synergizing role it doesn't want us to all kill ourselves
and disappear or wipe out everything else or wipe out everything yeah yeah so toy maker showed me visions
of like thousands of other living worlds where technology developed um which was a pretty amazing
whoa and one of the encapsulations of those is he was like uh i use the word he casually so imagine
that there are two planets that both circle the same sun in the same orbit right planet a and planet b
on planet a they develop an automobile and they never make a second one on planet b they develop an
automobile and they make billions of them which one of these planets right so it's like planet a
produces prototypes but they just keep folding the technology into something more amazing planet b
reproduces the technology at any cost right and this kind of a planet is a dead world it's blocking
this kind of a planet this has possibilities for intelligence right the hyper distribution of a single
object the profit motive um the complete disconcern with things like pollution of war and stuff like that
it's unsurvivable what we have to solve that problem that's what we have to solve it's you know i'm
anti-mechanical because i don't trust the humans with silverware like i said before but there but
there are species that are capable of the intelligent use of technology in such a way that it doesn't mean
dead world um we have to become that kind of species yeah and there's a you know there's a potential for
that it's a real direction you can grow towards yeah agreed i think it is i i'm personally very
hopeful about it i think i'm a technologist if you're living in san francisco i would not be hopeful
about it because as i said to me this is the right the the dying it is the light the last light of a
dying system i mean i hope it's dying to me it feels like it's dying i mean here it doesn't feel like it's
dying i mean it kind of does in some ways but in other ways it doesn't because there's so much energy
here and all these new technologies being developed and stuff but it feels like the last gasp in many
ways um i hope you're i hope you're right yeah me too i don't trust the humans as far i don't trust
them at all yeah i trust individual humans very deeply i don't know what's captured our species
i feel really concerned about it yeah but hopefully you know we can establish uh
options out you know um i think the hope of the sun the earth the sky is on our side agreed and those
are you know if we think those are powerful forces if we think that what the humans are doing is big and
momentous just stop and think about the sun because if it farts that's going away right all
that's to do is burp yeah right and so yeah so the humans should probably have a thought about
unfortunately they don't think it's possible to piss the sun off the ancient humans knew it was
possible to piss the sun off yeah but they were very concerned about that yeah they were like don't
don't make us angry please right a lot of face paint is actually just to protect you from the wrath of
the sun right there were ages where you know that stuff was deadly now it's pretty it seems it's been
benevolent for quite some time yeah cool i'm totally out of steam at this point but i'm out of steam for a
good reason so much love yeah likewise respect yeah really grateful to have you here with me in this
room for a few minutes i'm sorry if we if it was late at night and we we wore you out a bit no it was i'm
worn out i was the wrong word i've been um stretched yeah and filled
yeah thank you
bye bye people thank you see you next time see you uh somewhere
