Hello everybody. Welcome. Those of you who are familiar with my work know that I'm not
really busy or interested in blowing my own horn and etc. But what I hope that you'll
find here on my channel are some living mirrors, some doorways to the origins of
our nature, intelligence and potential that will unlock some cages that we've
all been stuck in, that our ancestors were trapped in, that every human being that
ever drew breath hoped to find a key to a vector that would jailbreak the bullshit
systems that are eating our planet history and future. And if that's part of
your interest, well, strap in because we're gonna go to the sky together right
now. Yeah, that guy's got it right. We are trained to make a variety of fundamental
mistakes and from childhood onward by our parents and peers, by the people who are
supposed to be educating us, by the people who are wearing the costumes of our
liberators, of messiahs, of noble warriors, of extreme altruists. They are chaining our
feet to the floor. They are cutting off our wings and stapling them to the fucking
chalkboards in the one place that we are supposed to be able to acquire the keys.
Schools, the universities. What the hell is meant by university? It literally is
supposed to be the city of the universe, the place where all of the intelligences in
time-space come together to sing and speak and show and remind us to resurrect our
divine memories of our origins, natures, and potentials. And what do we get instead? Prison
bars. We are trained to reiterate in thought, expectation, speculation, and evaluation a variety
of catastrophic errors. But if you make any one of them, you'll build bars every time you
make a move. And if you make three, you will be a slave. So I want to talk about some of these errors.
It's a little windy here today. I've got my mic buffer on. We should be in good shape.
I guess we'll find out on the far side of this arc.
So one of the most profound of these errors
is that you're merely human.
Don't expect too much of me. I'm only human after all.
Well,
let me be really clear about what being human actually looks like.
If you took the magical,
supranormal powers of every physicalized intelligence on earth,
the octopus, the whale, the dolphin, the bat, the praying mantis, the crane, the rattlesnake,
the electric eel, the turtle, the crocodile, the mouse, the mole, the eagle, the hawk, the kestrel.
If you unified all those beings,
all of the beings, the forests, the coral reefs,
the nudibranchs, the plankton,
if you unified all the intelligences and forms and abilities of those beings,
and then you mated that with the angels,
the devas, the jinn, the daimons, the gods,
that's what you were born as.
There's nothing mere about your humanity.
There never was, there never will be,
except that you are convinced of your fundamental impoverishment
according to principles that have nothing to do with who and what and how you came to be incarnate here on earth.
So one of the first mistakes is that you're only human.
And if you don't believe me,
watch the hundreds of thousands, the millions of people
who escape that bond and directly show you
the impossible.
the five-year-old 280 note per minute shredding guitar player from Korea.
The ballerinas, the runners, swimmers, the athletes, the dancers, the singers,
the occasional scientists, the mathematicians, the seers, the healers, the real ones, not the mimics.
Watch the dogs and the cats, the dragonflies,
because they'll give you hints
at the vast terrain of the more than merely human you came here to be and become.
That little seemingly weak,
seemingly delicate body you have
is capable of things as yet unimagined by human beings, let alone achieved.
And that will always be the case
because the actual scope of our potential nature origin
and the urgent imperatives we bring to human birth is infinite.
It is a layered array of infinities.
And when you see someone doing something that appears superhuman,
what you're seeing is merely
a hint
at that depth.
A hint.
To imagine what an actual statement would look like is nearly impossible for us.
An actual expression of that infinite potential
could move the planet in a moment,
could move human history in an instant.
That's your potential.
However divorced we may feel or think ourselves to be from it.
So the first common thing we're taught
is a series of limitations
that are cognitive, intellectual, spiritual, physical,
ideological, and relational
that have nothing to do with our nature.
They have to do with an agenda, a program, a process,
an array of protocols that have long dominated
human culture and experience, and particularly human collectivity.
These protocols render us into helpless slaves,
eager for any distraction from the agonies we feel
at the impoverishments we cannot understand
the origins or the opposites of.
And those opposites are our birthrights.
They are not our birthrights in the sense that
someone's supposed to defend you having them, although that would be fabulous.
No, there's something very different.
They are the innate necessities
of our human nature and our more than human
nature, potential, urgency, ache, desire.
And we get sold counterfeits, sex, drugs, rock and roll,
violence, commerce, commodification, objectification,
representations, video games.
We get sold video games.
And you don't need computers to run these.
They were running them on humans back when the conquistadors
ripped and shredded the American continent, the South American continent.
And later the colonizing forces of Europe
landed here and obliterated wholesale the
native indigenous populations here.
Those conquistadors were infected with the disease before they brought it here
and reinstanced it and we are subject to those same
fucking deletions and impoverishments here today.
We are a self-colonizing nightmare
of new ways to colonize the population per second
and to stack up representations of value in banks, representations of power
in corporations and governments and the military industrial complex.
We frack the souls of our children to build monuments to despair.
These we worship.
I don't know who we is.
Perhaps the we I mean here is the absentee we of our possible intentional collectivity.
The absence that appears as a presence, which is one of the most devastating ploys
and one of the most terrifying features of our human experience and lives.
It's literally what we see in the horror films.
We see absences appearing as presences.
This is what drives
our cultures, if we could call them that and we shouldn't, we should just call them diseases.
The military industrial complex, our political systems, our legal systems and our corporations.
So this is one of the first lies that you are merely human. The second
lie that you're taught is a lie of transference.
And let me frame this lethal fiction so that you can recognize it in your own consciousness
behavior and the ideation and desperation of your fellow humans all around you.
There's a comforting continuity
reality
to what we call physical reality,
which I'm going to suppose is about one percent of what's actually going on.
And it's the fact that your shoes will probably be where you left them last night.
The silverware doesn't rearrange itself in the drawer.
The ice cubes are still frozen when you take them out of the refrigerator.
The money in the bank mostly stays there unless stolen.
That tree you saw
on your walking route yesterday is there again today unless some idiotic arborist,
in a desperate effort to justify their pay,
ripped it from the earth and chopped it up into,
well, you know, sawdust or
something similar,
which happens a lot here where I walk in the park.
That continuity, that reliable, unchanging,
because of how we are in time, it's unchanging, right? The stone is still the stone tomorrow,
the tree is still there. We believe,
we feel most of our lives that we are immortal, even though we are aware of the possibility of death,
and we may have encounters with death.
It's our relationship to temporality that convinces us
that the compelling continuity of physical objects in space and their organizations
is the most trustworthy fact.
Absolutely reliable.
Not ambiguous.
We don't have to watch over the little stone,
you know, the boulder, the mountain.
They will be there every day.
And that brings us a kind of comfort, because humans have these drivers,
we can be understood to have these drivers,
orienting our awareness and concern,
three of them.
Ambiguity, vigilance, prediction.
Increases in ambiguity spin up our vigilance.
We're constantly concerned about prediction.
This is why we live in dead boxes, because
any reduction in ambiguity
releases us from vigilance
and thus
we turn from prediction to opportunism,
which we certainly prefer to the burdens
that prediction places on us, particularly
predictions about negative future events.
Events that are undesirable, painful, impoverishing,
injuring, isolating, so forth.
So these three drivers
underlie
human concern and awareness,
how we forge our awareness, what we forge it for,
how we direct it in consciousness.
And the fiction here is that the staggering predictability of physical reality,
objects in space,
should be transferred onto the rest of existence,
so that we presume
that the structured continuity of physical space is the prototype of everything else.
everything else is just like that structured continuity and should be understood that way.
This is what leads to materialistic models in science.
It's what leads to physicalist reductionism in philosophic thought.
the transfer of the expectation of structured continuity
from physical reality
from physical reality to all other aspects of existence.
and think carefully about this error because it's very subtle and largely invisible to us unless we concern ourselves with it.
Unless we float it on the waters of thought,
it will remain invisible and we will just make the presumptions
that, for example, my friend Joe is always my friend Joe.
That I know Joe.
That I know who Joe is.
And you can see what's going on here, right?
Because
if I claim to know who my friend Joe is, part of the claim I'm making
is that there's little ambiguity.
I don't, I'm not subject to ambiguity as regards Joe.
Right?
I know who Joe is.
I can predict how Joe will likely respond to a question or situation.
I have properly evaluated Joe due to our long association.
Joe is a stable, continuous structure in existence.
Nothing like this is or was ever or could be true.
Ancient peoples were aware of this problem.
They had discovered
that the capacity for descriptive or denotative language was fraught
with prison-earing perils that would obliterate
our relationships and humanity, turn us into slaves and prisoners
if we simply obeyed their structure.
So they learned to not do that, right?
They learned to preserve awareness, potential opportunity, creativity, play, transformation, wonder,
integrity, honor, respect, awe.
They preserved these above all the structured comforts of representational cognition
and labeling language.
They knew their lives and cultures depended on it.
And when they met the colonizers, they thought, they expected, they predicted
that these highly intelligent, apparently technologically advanced humans
would necessarily
understand
and enact the same principles that trusted them.
own teachers on the mission
and people
can't hide the monuments
how Dora
None of us would think that our, you know, presuming that our parents loved us and were loving and kind, that our parents had agendas that would destroy us, ruin our spirits, wreck the many forms of flight we are capable of, flight into the outer space of ordinary humanity.
That's very interesting.
These two women are directing their rowboat with separate oars, whereas nearly everyone else, one person, rows with both oars at once so that the boat goes fairly straight.
I like their intelligence. I like the daring of their experiment.
So we transfer the expectation of physical continuity onto identity.
And you can see in the strange and partly lethal backwaters of identity politics and gender politics,
a nascent awareness of the dangers of presuming the continuity or predictability of gender or identity.
Problem is, with that, is it should remain actually fluid.
And once you militarize that domain, you're going to suffer ironic, what, collapsings, right?
And misunderstandings and prosecutions and indictments and all of this really dangerous distraction from liberation.
So, the first lethal fiction is that you're merely human.
This doesn't mean that you get to just make shit up and become like a woo goddess.
The people who walk around saying that they're kings and queens because they have a male or a female body or they are goddesses, you know, or whatever.
However, without access to the more than merely human domains of our nature is dependent on various kinds of integrity and humility.
If you're arrogant and you celebrate arrogance and pump up, inflate your personal identity and your ego,
the universe will grind you up and spit out the little bits of tooth and bone that remain, with very few exceptions.
So, I personally, there's a lot of wind here right now.
There could be some noise, even though I have the mic buffer on, so bear with me.
I have no patience for this kind of nonsense myself.
If you find it attractive or interesting, well, see if it serves you.
It's the opposite of what I'm talking about.
Integrity means honesty.
And yes, we are vastly more than human.
But to that more is in service of the history and future of all beings.
It's not in service to the preservation of Darren's name or my individual prosperity or wealth.
We can see in our cultures another terrifying fiction,
which is that the goal is the fulfillment of individual, egoic, personal desires
and liberations from cultural structures via catastrophic wealth.
That's a game, that's a vampiric game, where the death and suffering of billions of others
builds up fortunes in individual and corporate bank accounts.
The fiction there is that it's the personal identity and individual fulfillment of a single
human being that is the most valuable thing, the righteous thing, the thing you're supposed
to do, the thing that if you don't do, someone else will.
The race to the bottom, perverse incentives, all of this.
That leads to dead planets and nightmares, tyrants and false demigods.
Bezos, Bezos, Musk, Epstein, Maxwell, the U.S. military industrial complex, Google, Twitter, Facebook,
Instagram, TikTok, Pinterest, the swarming list of lethal vampiric nightmares
just keeps exploding into new malignant mutations, each one more powerful and accelerated than
the last.
It's cancer protocol, but the fiction is that the endless unfulfillability of individual
identity and power is righteous, appropriate, and true.
This is the opposite of what I'm saying.
Real fulfillment has its root in a kind of divine equanimity.
Not the concept of equality.
Not lip service.
And equalities isn't even the right idea.
It's flowing transcendental mutuality.
Fame is so often a devastating and miserable outcome of the developmental potentials of a
human being, and many of the famous have painfully come to understand this at absolutely terrifying
crisis.
I have an essay called The Factories of Emptiness about this on my Medium page.
There's a lot of cheering up on top of the Strawberry Hill here.
So, yeah, that's one of the fictions that personal fulfillment.
Now, look, there's no problem with, fundamentally, there's no problem with, you know, lift your
boat and bring the tide that raises all the boats around you.
If it actually raises them, and if that commitment doesn't become compromised as it becomes more
successful, right?
We can see, and historically, Google's mandate, don't be evil, became the opposite of their
mandate.
And presently, you have a slavering, drooling malignancy at the top of the food chain, just
obliterating the history and future of, you know, humanity and nature and so forth, while
pretending to a greatness that can't be had by villains, yet can be mimicked.
All right, the fourth fiction, that we are trapped on a backwards planet called Earth.
The humans are certainly backwards.
Our cultures are insane, nightmarish monsters.
They're not human.
We'll get to that shortly as the fifth fiction.
But what I want you to understand is that this is all the worlds.
All of the intelligences in time-space, meaning in the future and in every place in the universe
are accessible from here.
This is a transceiver.
The forms you see around you of the organisms, the microorganisms, the viruses, all these things,
the plants, the forests, the hyperstructures of organismal synergy that we refer to with
the term ecologies.
These are instancings of the forms and modes of cooperative transcendence throughout time-space.
Everything you could possibly imagine or want is directly accessible from right here, your body,
right where you're sitting.
Nothing requires travel.
And travel can quickly become ironic and, you know, the opposite of, productive of the
opposite of what travel hopes for.
The gurus and yogis know what I am saying.
We imagine that when Buddha says, oh, I have remembered, I have had the anamnesis of my million
previous lifetimes, we presume that what he may have meant was a linear anamnesis backward in time.
Right?
It occurs to no one, nearly no one, that what he meant was something more like, all these
lives here, all these lives alive now, all these lives that have been previously alive.
These are my spirit.
They are my mind.
They are my body.
They are my mother.
They are my father.
They are my children.
They are my dreaming.
They are my love.
What's actually going on here is, first of all, incomplete.
So when you, so the language is wrong.
There isn't anything actually going on because the idea that there are things that are actually
the case is a result of that first fiction.
The transfer of the continuity of physical objects in space to all other domains of being.
It's not true.
Much of what is going on is not a state.
It's an array of transforming potentials synergistically producing the appearance of a stable situation.
That appearance is false.
That appearance is false.
It is another of the fictions.
The appearance of a stable situation.
Not true.
Deceptive, slave-making nonsense in consciousness.
Useful for very pragmatic concerns and purposes.
Right?
I want to build a bed out of wood.
Useful.
Right?
Stable state.
Mine.
Yeah.
I want to shoot a bullet and kill my neighbor.
Useful.
Right?
I don't want that.
But if somebody has this desire.
Right?
Useful.
Useful for war.
Useful for commerce.
Useful for allopathic medicine.
The kind we use doctors and hospitals to purvey.
Useful for mechanistic science.
Engineering.
Computation.
So forth.
Lethal to our actual potentials and origin.
when implemented by dissociated insane processes that have captured our collectivity and expectation.
So this is all the worlds.
When a child is born here, it is just as if you gave them a UFO.
Right?
It's just like the story of Superman where call L.
knowing that his world is about to be destroyed by earthquakes due to transformations in the local and stellar environment.
Puts his child, their child, into a spacecraft and sends it to Earth to grow and be born here.
That is the story of every human child on this world.
We come from space time.
This planet is all the worlds.
When a child is born here, what they will traverse in existence is very similar to...
It's not similar.
It's the hyper-stasis.
It's the superposition over what would happen in an actual spaceship sent to another planet.
That was, you know, inhabited by something, right?
This world is all the worlds.
Your travel here is travel in space time.
It appears local.
It isn't local.
There's nothing local about it.
Or rather, the fragment of it which is reliably local is again, perhaps, it's less than 1%.
It's very reliable, that less than 1%.
As far as expectation, ambiguity, and prediction goes,
it seems like it's made of concrete, that 1%.
It's super reliable, but wildly incomplete.
And so, too, are the natures and potentials of our human lives,
which appear to be individual yet are not.
They are for the sake of all beings.
We incarnate for the sake of all beings, as well as our own sake.
We come here on heroic missions that are quickly forgotten,
as we are indoctrinated in modernities, languages, and in actions of enculturation.
So, yeah, this is the fourth fiction.
This is all the worlds.
A lifetime here is a transit through space time,
encountering many other worlds, many other universes,
becoming other worlds and universes,
together, with and for each other,
and the history and future of all beings,
and the sake of their liberation from pain and suffering and impoverishment.
It doesn't look that way on the surface.
It looks like the opposite.
We come here to participate in pain, suffering, enslavement, and impoverishment
of ourselves and others.
We torture the animals, buy meat at the grocery store,
all of these things.
They are bad.
Of course they are bad.
For those of us that live in cities,
they are sort of necessities.
So the city starts the problem.
You can see that the problem begins at the collective level
and is transmitted into the personal level,
order, or register, if you will.
There's going to be some wind for a minute
while I wander around this.
Maybe I'll pause and reflect on the fifth fiction.
Okay, the fifth fiction
is that aggregates of human collectives are people.
That the government is a person,
that the corporations are persons.
There was a catastrophic data breach at AT&T recently.
And I read nonsense language in the media.
We so, you know, the privacy of our clients
is our fundamental concern.
We're filled with regret and so forth.
We heard similar nonsense from Boeing,
whose catastrophic commercial grifting and cheating
resulted in the deaths of hundreds of people.
We hear the same nonsense from ExxonMobil
when, you know, some pipeline bursts
and vast portions of the ocean are obliterated by poison.
We hear this nonsense constantly.
Trump pretends to be a human being
with a political identity
when, in fact, he's just a fucking parasite.
He's a highly advanced parasite.
And others will say,
well, Biden's even worse.
Okay, right.
I doubt it, but it's, you know,
it doesn't really matter.
The point is fictional humans aren't humans.
Corporations can't have emotions.
They don't have regret.
They don't have compassion.
They don't have altruism.
Small groups of humans can express
altruistic gestures as collectives.
Small groups of humans can be human
until they're captured by commerce
or power in the market.
And then it's basically just straight-up monsters
lying, right?
But what I want to be really clear about
is that representations of human collectivity
that are dead inside
cannot have emotions.
And when they say we regret,
they're just fucking lying.
It's impossible for Google to regret something.
Right?
It's impossible for them to feel shame.
They don't have emotions.
When they say they're expressing emotions,
they are lying.
Straight-up lying.
There's no such thing as that.
Corporations are not people.
They don't have rights.
They can't be imprisoned.
There's no real structure
to shut them down
when they behave
omnicitally or catastrophically
or viciously
or just profiteeringly.
Right?
I mean, everybody's just going to say,
like, look, this is a war over profit.
As long as we win the war,
whatever you can get away with goes.
And damn the graveyards of children.
Who cares?
You see the same kinds of thing going on
in the countries that are at war right now.
They don't care about human beings
at all.
They have some principle or idea in mind,
some protocol that they're enacting
as they slaughter children and women
and fathers and grandfathers and grandmothers
and whole lineages of human history,
just obliterating them.
They think they have an argument in favor of this?
What possible argument
could a human being have for that?
None.
If they were human,
they could not do that.
So the idea that our collectives
are intelligently oriented
or humane or human
or trustworthy
or worthy of our service
or attention
or authorization
is bullshit.
The fifth fiction.
Now, there are many more fictions.
They all have to do with limitations.
That you're not telepathic.
That you are telepathic.
Both are fictions.
The actual path between them
is intimacy,
not declaration.
Right?
Intimacy.
Sensitive, mutual synergy
for noble and amnoetic,
unforgetting purposes
to remember together,
to rediscover the potentials
and natures
of our origins
and intelligences,
our transcendent
aspects,
the beyond of the human
that we came here
to bring
into
physical reality
to catalyze,
to impregnate,
to fertilize,
to potentiate
here on earth.
There are many more fictions.
Now,
your mission,
should you choose
to accept it,
is to take
the fictions
I presented here
and invert them
in your consciousness,
evaluation,
thought,
behavior,
relationships,
experiments,
arts,
creativity,
remembering,
dreaming,
adoring,
awakening,
experience.
If you know
the falsehoods,
you can forge
the keys
and if you know
two or three of them,
you can forge
a very powerful key.
I've given you
five here today,
there are many more,
we will continue
to explore them together.
We were born
to unforget
the ways
and beauty
and shining
holy origins
of our nature,
potentials,
and the missions
that we incarnate
to pursue together.
Let us not forget them.
let us never
counterfeit them.
Let us correct
wherever we begin
to forge biases
or declarative
errors.
Let us not know
but learn.
Let us not tell
but see
together
for each other.
In any situation
where we have
the agreement
to see better
rather than
to defend
the books
of our previous
thought,
concern,
belief,
and bias,
wherever we shall
agree
to see
better together
for the sake
of each other
and our world,
we will succeed.
The sixth fiction
is that
we are alone
in the universe.
We are not alone
here on earth
but we are nothing
like alone
in the universe.
Our people
were born
in intimate
symbiotic relationship
with non-human
intelligences.
First,
those here
around us
on earth
or perhaps
first those
in the sky
that may have
actually forged
our forms
because we are
certainly not
the result
of natural,
merely natural
mechanical evolution
on earth.
No chance of that.
The sixth fiction
is that we are alone
and the seventh
is that you are alone.
the universe
is filled
with anciently
astonishing
transcendent minds
and they participate
directly
in the formation
of living worlds.
Without them
you would not be able
to understand
my language,
you would not have
anything like a mind.
In order to have
a mind
you have to be
touching the basis
of the transcendent
origin
of consciousness
and that's a link
that could never
be broken.
Never.
It might perhaps
be briefly interrupted.
If it were interrupted
for long
everything that you
understand is you
would permanently
be gone
and I don't think
that's even possible.
So,
the sixth fiction
is that humans
are alone.
The seventh
is that you are alone.
There's no chance
of that.
The eighth
is that we're
the dominant form
of life on earth.
We are certainly
the most dangerous
and lethal form
of life on earth
and in the sense
of being
omnicitally
dissociated
from lived relation
with nature.
If that's
what dominance means
then we're dominant
in that sense.
And we are dominant
in the sense
that we can destroy
everything here
without too much
trouble.
Yeah.
But we are not
the dominant form
of life.
The dominant form
of life
is probably
cells.
Bacteria,
protozoa,
single-celled animals,
protists,
and so forth.
And in terms
of number
the dominant form
of life
is probably
viruses.
So these are
the fictions
I will outline
today.
I hope you find
them useful
and medicinal,
insightful
and helpful,
inspiring.
in learning to
see them
we can begin
to forge
their opposites
in thought,
concern,
consciousness,
relation,
and behavior.
and that direction
and that direction
lies the hope
of the future
of our species
and world.
I'm so grateful
to have this time
together.
Thank you for
joining me.
Take a moment
to like
or share
or ask a question
in the comments.
Please support
my work
if you find it
helpful
or amusing,
inspiring.
I look forward
to learning
together again
very soon.
May your ways
and lives
and dreams
and relations
be beautiful
and profound.
Bye-bye for now.
Bye-bye.
