To be continued...
To be continued...
We gather today to remember and invite the spirits of all the beings who have striven to awaken our people, to remember the nature of origin, intelligence, insight, wisdom.

To give us new ways of knowing and seeing and being together that are as profound as they are liberating, virtuous and beautiful.
So, we honor those beings who have come before us and those who are here now and those who will come after us and invite them to participate in our explorations today.
So, you were talking about something related to...
To the features of language and its sonic character.
Perhaps you could say more about that or tell me what you were thinking about.
Yeah, I was reconsidering the nature of representational cognition and its relation to language.
So, I became aware that representational cognition or symbolic cognition probably results from the equilibrium state of the human body.
Which is a necessary evolutionary stage.
But in our current state of cognition, we tend to treat time as if it were some kind of linear unfolding.
Which makes death appear to be this boundary encompassing our phenomenal experience.
So, death is the point at which we cease to exist in time.
But if time isn't a container, then death isn't a boundary in the ordinary sense.
And this relates to what I was discussing with you a few weeks ago about the connection between language and death or cognition and death.
Because I think in a certain sense language already anticipates death.
So, death is simply the revelation of what language already foreshadows in a certain respect.
So, I was just like reconsidering the acoustic nature of language in terms of these forms of resonance in the human body and in other kingdoms of nature.
So, death isn't really an event in time.
Yeah, so death isn't really an event in time.
It's an alteration in how time is engaged.
So, when we speak or when we think, we're preparing for a new mode of navigating temporality, I think, at some level.
So, I think what takes place in language and in thought is this kind of foreshadowing of the possibility of navigating time in a more tactile way.
As opposed to existing in time and regarding time as this more optical or vision-based phenomenon.
Because in our sort of representational cognitive state, we tend to encompass phenomena with our thinking, which is a visual operation.
So, we're sort of encircling or encompassing phenomena when we talk about phenomena, as in science.
But there's a higher form of cognition that I'm trying to get at, which is more tactile.
And I think that's what death fundamentally is.
So, when we learn how to think properly, we're learning how to navigate the post-mortem realm.
I think that's sort of what's going on.
Wow, that is so rich and fraught with possibility.
So, one of the things that's obvious to me is that the ways that we're trained to think about fundamental features of existence that we have given names to, right?
Time, light, matter, anatomy, bodies, biology, and so forth.
The features of our embodied experience can be understood as unique features of temporalization, expressions of time.
Or even in different layers of what's going on.
How to put this?
So, there's a layer above linear time.
There's a layer above biology, or within it, or both.
And our speaking can be understood as a form of structuring temporality.
But it can also be understood, our bodies as well, as forms of time making.
Does this make any sense?
Yeah, exactly.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So, like, without biologies, there are all these aspects of time that don't exist.
Biologies are a way of temporalizing, making forms of time in the layer of material existence, which, of course, you know, we tend to presume is primary or the only one.
Right?
Right?
Because we don't have the same kind of experience of other features, other layers.
Right?
Give me a second.
Is that yours, son?
Huh?
Is that yours?
No.
Yeah.
I'm guessing the piano effect.
Oh, right.
Yeah.
Okay.
Like, we should have to do a war, though.
Yeah.
So what you're saying is very profound.
I'm going to try to say it back to you in a much simpler way.
Speech is an act that doesn't merely anticipate death, it participates in it.
Mm-hmm.
Yeah.
And this is a wildly uncommon, like, perspective.
Yeah.
It's almost like importing death into the moment in a way where we are unconscious of our speech having anything to do with that.
And this resembles what I was talking about and thinking about over the past couple of months, where I suspect that features of our affinities and disaffinities, intuitions and urges and motivations are actually dripping back from our death into
you know, from the post-mortem continuum into our present moment, but we don't have this idea, so we never recognize that generally.
Yes, right.
Even if we were inclined to think of something kind of similar, we would be, I think, predisposed to suspect that the opposite is happening, which is entirely, both things can be happening.
Right?
It doesn't have to be one or the other, but the opposite being the before of our birth, right?
Our previous existences, quote unquote, which is a strange idea because it supposes a linearity that is almost certainly illusion illusory.
We think we come from the before and we go into the after.
I do.
Go ahead.
No, absolutely.
Yeah, I was also delving into this question this week, the perceived linearity of time as a transient stage or function of this evolutionary level or evolutionary stage, where language functions as this kind of controlled hallucination, where the ego kind of functions as this stabilizing principle.
But it's not necessarily a property of time itself.
It's something that allows the hallucination to be controlled.
Because it's like an ego driven product in the same way that the animal body experiences a kind of controlled dream.
And we were talking earlier this week about, or at least I was talking to you about, this relationship between the dream and the hallucination.
I think there's an analogous development between the transition from the animal form to the human form.
And the kind of equilibrium or harmonization that you see in the human form opens the possibility of language precisely because it equilibrates what in the animal body is lateralized or overemphasized.
So precisely by virtue of the fact that the human body is a general structure that lacks specialization, the human form enables something like symbolic cognition to arise, but it exhibits the same pattern as the evolution of life itself.
So cognition and life are structured according to the same retrieval based structures in time.
There's something deeper within time that both cognition or language and the form of the body or morphology share.
And I think it pertains to the underlying nature of light and space and certain other physical concepts.
You know, we can get into that, but.
So I'm hearing, and this is absolutely amazing.
But one of the things I heard is that the way the animal body is structured lengthwise.
The part of why we are, as we are is because we're vertical.
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
So we're like kind of a cross between the concept of an animal and, or not the concept, but the, the mode of, of biophysicalization in the animal and the mode of biophysicalization.
And tree.
Exactly.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Because so plants externalize the same archetype that animals internalize.
Which is to say that plants stabilize the archetype that animals mobilize or move, but the archetype in either case pertains to the essence of light itself.
So if you consider, if you consider something like inertia in physics, the concept of inertia was formulated by Galileo as a way to reconcile being with becoming, which are ancient Greek metaphysical notions.
But rather than predicating motion of matter, the reconciliation of being with becoming, which Galileo inaugurated, is incomplete until matter itself is regarded as a state of equilibrium between timescales.
So, so instead of treating motion as a property of an object moving through space, motion is more like an emergent phenomenon of temporally encoded structure.
So really the propagation of light and inertia are the same phenomenon and living things exhibit this kind of polarity.
So, so the rectilinearity of inertial motion, as well as the rectilinearity of light propagation arise for the same reason that the external arrangement of the organs in the body of a plant is continuous.
So in all three cases, temporal encoding remains relatively unperturbed.
So they have the same reason for existing.
So when you look at the organs of a plant, you can see something about physical phenomena like light propagation and the origin of inertia.
So why, when you release an object in space, it tends to persist in its state of motion.
So the plant is actually a physicalization or a spatialized emblem of these deeper cosmic processes.
So I hope that kind of makes sense or is of interest because, okay, so like consider the golden ratio, right?
So the golden, the golden ratio naturally appears in wave interference patterns.
So the edge spectra of light reveal the golden ratio for the same reason that it appears in plant morphology.
They share the same reason.
And it's because the temporal structure is unperturbed as it manifests.
So the golden ratio is just the optimal reconstruction.
But it appears in plant morphology and in light for the same reason.
So evolution is more of a more of a process of reconstruction or resurrection than a process of progression.
So, you know, we tend to think that objects are moving through space and that objects change through this process of accretion.
But I think it's probably the exact opposite at a certain level.
So that opposite is.
Yeah.
So, well, organisms like plants are closer to continuous rectilinear retrieval, whereas more complex organisms like animals are memory.
Yeah, it's like a memory effect, right?
It's like a, it's a magnet.
Yeah.
A magnet.
Yeah.
A magnet.
Yeah.
Memorial instancing or something.
Sorry, repeat that?
Yeah, this is re-memorial instancing.
We can say, we can delineate this more clearly as we proceed, but I'm just still in mind blow.
Let me take a moment.
Please continue.
So what changes from the form of the plant body to the form of the animal body is the density of retrieval structures,
like the density of media through which light passes in the phenomenon of refraction.
So organisms like plants, they operate closer to this continuous rectilinear retrieval like light in a vacuum, whereas a more complex organism like an animal shows or exhibits denser multi-scale retrieval structures, which gives rise to perception.
So perception is like a function of deviation from the upper limit of retrieval, which is probably linked to the speed of light.
So perception is a result from increasing these retrieval densities.
It's just like refraction.
Like as you pass light through a prism.
It's a very similar process.
So the reason that refraction occurs isn't because light is moving through a medium.
Light is retrieving deeper layers of temporality.
That's sort of what's going on, I think, as it passes through or appears to pass through different media.
And that time delay is what gives rise to perception.
That's what perception probably is.
Oh, my God.
It has to do with internalizing this archetype that the plant exteriorizes.
So, yeah, that was something that I realized this week.
Oh, my God.
Yeah, this is insight on a scale that is, well, basically, you're doing in cognition what the osmos does in sound.
Right, right.
Okay, so I want to try to respond intelligently to some of the things you've said.
And they're so profound that it's difficult because I have to forge like a new mode of my mind in order to do so.
But there are some principles in what you're proposing and saying and suggesting that I think are important.
So one of them is that as human beings in our ordinary ontologies, we've got pretty much everything wrong.
And part of why we've got it wrong is we're placing the precedence on certain forms of separation between phenomena that are formally impossible.
They simply cannot exist except in cognition or language, in which case they can appear normative.
And so one of the things that I that I hear you saying is that the phenomenon in nature and this isn't limited plants or it's not limited to organisms.
It's basically a ladder and it's not clear what direction is up or down, but we could establish directionality according to our purposes.
But the same thing is going on in rocks, right, or mountains or landforms or living places.
We just in in English, the phrase living places is nearly unknown.
Unknown.
It's it's quite uncommon to think of places as beings or alive, though, it's, you know, common in certain cohorts.
Unknown.
So yeah, the mountain is doing a different degree.
It is not doing well, maybe it is doing it is the living expression.
Unknown.
We don't usually think of mountains as alive, but living as in it is the processes we have been discussing.
Unknown.
It's just a different mode of the processes.
Unknown.
So you could imagine that from rocks or earth forms and water forms and such that creates a context in which these other resurrections of what we could think of as the character and nature of light, time, space and matter, except not distinct, not distinguished from each other.
Unknown.
They are the same thing.
Right.
It's as if there's a one thing.
It's not even a thing.
There is one.
I don't know what to call it.
I realized that the conceptual roots of language and common thought are insufficient for these topics, though you're doing a great job of rendering them more sufficient.
So this is something that I've been aware of for a long time.
When I look at an organism, what I recognize, which is uncommon, is the face of the character of the light, time, space, matter being.
Right.
It is flowing into matter and enacting its nature in form and behavior.
Right.
So when I see a raccoon, I recognize, ah, this is the face of time, space's character.
So, too, in a lobster or a whale or an oak tree or a mountain.
Right.
Right.
There isn't anything else that could be being expressed.
The idea that these are like separate phenomena, people are trying to figure out, but did life originate on Earth or elsewhere?
No, the universe is transcendental to the concept of organism and instances its natures in the forms.
Yes.
Yeah.
In the forms and the relationships between living places like the Earth and organisms.
And there's one other thing I want to mention briefly, which is you can imagine that a rock is not alive, but if you then add a microorganism to that rock, its status has transformed.
It's no longer dead.
Right.
And by this measure, we must, I think, understand that the Earth is transcendental to organisms in a way that resembles the way that the sun is transcendental to the appearance of light here.
Right.
The sun, whatever that phenomenon, quote, is, unquote.
And not only that, right, the light of the sun naturally expresses its character and its temporalizations in their profoundly complex, multilayered expressivity as the forms and the relationships of the organisms here on our world.
So I just want to say one more thing, which is that you're proposing, I think, brilliantly.
But when you look at the form of, say, a plant, you're not seeing anything like what the humans believe they are seeing or think they are seeing generally.
What you're seeing is a resonant harmonization of features of light and time being expressed over a linear temporality, as it appears to us humans.
Such that it is as if waves are landing in the form and then beginning their expression and then new waves land and the expression is continued.
And it's possible that these waves are temporal in the sense that waves complex forms of temporality are sort of landing, if you will, or arriving into the formative aspect of the organism from history.
But also possibly similar waves are landing and expressed from the future.
And it's also possible that waves are, I'm just using the idea of waves, but iterations, right, or pulses are landing from above time, so that they're neither from the past or the future.
And these are being expressed in the diverse formation sequence.
What we see is a linear sequence, right, from seed to sprout to first leaf and so forth.
We perceive this as a linear sequence, but actually what's going on is quite transcendental to any of the models common in science or biology or these kinds of things.
So it's this, it's like waves are landing there and they're expressing their character, nature, structure.
They're resurrecting the spirit of being and time and light in the forms and the relationships, something like this.
And feel free to correct me or add whatever feels right.
Yeah, I mean, that was sort of what I meant earlier.
So when you learn to see the raccoon as you see it, you no longer have thoughts about the raccoon.
You're no longer thinking about anything.
You're, you're, you're perceiving a gateway.
That's what I'm saying.
So the raccoon becomes, or the plant or whatever being you, you've managed to encounter in this way, becomes an opening.
And so what shines through that opening is a kind of pre-carnal bridge.
So you're preparing for the post-mortem state.
That's what I'm saying.
When you, when you learn to think or speak in the right way, because language has the same kind of holographic temporal retrieval structure as the morphology of a living being.
So when you learn to think or, you know, even, even in symbolic cognition.
So, so like representational cognition is a necessary evolutionary step toward exteriorizing the body itself.
So you're preparing to exteriorize your form so as to navigate time in a more tactile way, as opposed to experiencing time as this container.
That's, I guess that's what I'm saying.
So using, using organisms as bridges to this, yeah, post-mortem state.
So in the same way, for example, that the hallucination is the exteriorization of the dream environment, symbolic cognition or language is already the exteriorization of form.
So there's, there's, there's a similar process at work there.
I love, go ahead.
Sorry, go on.
No, please.
So language is already the movement of thought beyond the body, and it circulates outside individual consciousness.
It forms these technological artifacts that we encounter today, as these crystallizations of, or ossifications of symbols, or of like primordial forms of insight, which are no longer possible for most of us, right?
Well, I think they remain possible.
We're just, we labor under the inhibitions of our familiar structured ideas.
And also, along with that cage comes the cage of what the humans around us are doing, thinking and talking about, and how they are talking and so forth.
Right.
Right.
Right.
But if, but again, let me just make this one point, just briefly, if the body is already the equilibrium state, that allows language to emerge, then the next step must be the exteriorization of the body itself.
Just as cognition was exteriorized in the form of symbols.
So that's, I think that's the key link.
Hmm.
Yeah, I would add to what you've said that it's not merely the preparation of death, it's the intrusion of death, and the restructuring of the postmortem situation within the material layer.
Right.
So it's participatory.
Right.
So it's participatory.
By doing this, we don't really prepare for death.
We are transforming the nature of death.
We are participating with pre-birth, post-life, and we, I think, are transforming something transcendental.
Right.
Right.
There's a layer, there's a layer which what we think is a hypostasis of, right, a lesser expression within matter and information.
But that layer is also somehow nourished and transformed by the body in this layer.
Does that make any sense?
Yeah, but you're preparing for death in the sense that you're preparing to navigate time in a more tactile way.
So you're preparing to manipulate time itself.
That's what I'm saying, which I think is what you're saying, right?
Yeah.
So you're preparing to restructure something in time.
You're restructuring temporality.
And that's what death opens for you.
Yeah.
It's an opening into that domain.
It should be blatantly obvious that the processes that are at play in the material layer, I'm calling it a layer.
There's other ways to register, right?
There's other ways to think of it.
The processes that play in the material layer both express and transform the layers they appear as expressions of.
Does that make any sense?
Let me be clearer.
So imagine that you have a universe in which there's only rocks, right?
You still have the expression and transformation of origin, the transcendental to physical layers.
You still have that.
And you have the relationships between the rocks.
This just comes down to thinking about, and I know you may be disinclined to think this way.
Okay.
For useful reasons.
But if we think about world lines and simultaneity in relativistic senses, and I get that Einstein was trying to synchronize clocks, right?
But if we think in this form for a minute, then it should be clear that a universe with two world lines has at least two different modes of the expression of the possibilities of temporality.
And there are those, there are those, what we think of as the individual world lines of two, let's say, beings, organisms, for example.
And then there's the relationship between them, which is another aspect of the temporality.
And then there's the relationship between those two aspects, the individual and the relational, and whatever the context is.
So if you have a place where there's organisms, what you have are modes of time, both as the, what we could think of as individual elements in the organism, say, viruses, mitochondria, cells.
So each of those understood is distinct for this moment.
And what you get are all of these diverse ways of time becoming, you get different modes.
So even if you just have five organisms that are different on a planet relating with each other, what you get for each of those organisms is a different way of being time and making time.
Because in their interiority, in the processes of their biology, and in their relationships and their relationships with the context, you have what I think of as dimensions of time.
What are your thoughts?
Oh, absolutely.
Yeah, that makes a lot of sense to me.
So then cognition is the next step.
I think like a human being with symbols is one step in that chain, because you're learning how to manipulate time or make time itself.
I guess that's what I was initially trying to say.
So that's, that's the sense in which cognition and language are linked for me.
Yeah, so one of the things you're saying is that symbolic cognition, representational cognition is a mode of both a unique mode of structuring temporality and light, and so forth.
But also, a way of both preparing for and importing death into embodied action and experience.
Right, yeah, because the human being runs away from death.
The human being, without, without the ego, for most of us, our experience would immediately become psychotic.
Or psychedelic.
So...
Or psychedelic.
Psychedelic, right?
Because yeah, the hallucination would cease to be controlled or modulated in a way that preserves the integrity of the self.
And that's, that's what, that's what symbolic cognition facilitates.
Yeah, I know.
To maintain this sense of identity.
But it also gives rise to linear time.
In, in the real or in the cognitive or both?
So the sense of self gives, gives rise to linear time in the sense that death, rather than entering the phenomenal veil, or the phenomenal world, is abstracted, is regarded as this event in the future, as opposed to something which is imminent.
So, when you become more enlightened, you realize that death is already here.
You're already dead, basically.
I mean, it's not like we're living and then, you know, one day you'll die.
It's that you're already dead.
And when you perceive death itself, shine through the veil, you attain Gnosis.
You start to commune with beings in a different way, because they become these gateways or these bridges that I'm talking about, and that you're describing.
Yes, yes, yes.
And you're connecting to something that pre-existed the phenomenal veil.
It's this kind of retrieval or memory of something.
But that memory is also a foreshadowing of the post-mortem state.
So, if you learn how to navigate beings or think with beings, you're preparing for death.
That's what I was talking about initially.
But all that that means is that you're preparing to interact with time in a different way.
In a way which is more tactile than visual.
Where time ceases to be a container and it starts to become like a bridge that you can move around within.
So, one of the things that's apparent to me from reflecting on what you're suggesting here is that
the moment of now is like a fountain of the influx of all previous moments and all future moments.
And all previous developmental states and all future developmental states.
Including something that resembles origin, which is not a point in time.
It's a place in being.
Being imported is something like oblivion or apocalypse, which again is not a point in time.
It's a, it's a feature in the anatomy of being that is outside of time.
Something like this.
What are your thoughts?
Take your time.
Take your time.
Yeah, I mean, you know, modern physics is downstream from ancient Greek philosophy and its notions of being and becoming.
But it's an incomplete rendition or it's an incomplete reconciliation.
So, when you begin to reconcile them more completely, you realize that there are links between physics and biology that modern science has yet to understand.
And I think it, it pertains to these deeper forms of linguistification and experience and, you know, the nature of the ego or the sense of self.
But, yeah, it forms a systematic chain of errors.
So, once you, once you get the key, you can start unlocking all the errors because they all have the same cause.
Right.
It's like you start to see, you're seeing the same pattern repeat over and over again between different scientific domains.
So, yeah, I guess that's.
Yeah.
A lot of the causes are what I would call fictions of the academy.
And these tend to be fictions that are based on falsely ascribing precedence to humans.
The concept of decoration, which arises primarily in language, not in experience.
So that we want to think about time, for example, mechanically.
Imagine that you tried to think about someone you're in love with mechanically and you refuse to think about them in any other way.
Because the way of knowing you are utilizing and what developing is based on the presumption of nothing like spirit or soul or origin exists.
We just want to look at the mechanics.
So you could imagine trying to look at a being or relate with being in this case, the universe and the human expert, you know, like nature of the relation between the humans and being itself.
But you decided, hey, we're going to evict.
Everything that's not empirical.
Everything that's not mechanical.
And then we're going to try to arrive at understanding.
It would be impossible to experience something like the flavor of food or a kiss if we were limited in the way that our scientific ontologies generally begin from.
It's like starting out with an error so catastrophic in one sense or a few senses, but the chances of you arriving at understanding are destroyed at the first move.
And then proposing, but that is the correct or authoritative way of knowing it isn't that science is incapable of pursuing the kinds of insights we've been orbiting here.
It's that the dominant fictions in materialist, reductivist, eliminativist traditions would not survive the would not survive being invaded by insights.
Yeah.
So it's like errors of first principles, it looks like to me.
And these are devastating to human interiority, to the coherence of awareness, to intelligence, to the possibilities of our, you know, that's actually available to us versus what we're likely to experience in some given lifetime.
Of course, individuals sometimes escape, you know, some of that structure.
I loved what you said, or what I took from what you said about language in proposing that it's a system of structured hallucination.
Maybe I misunderstood you, but that's what I took from what you said.
Yeah, yeah.
It's not visual hallucination, right?
It's modulated by the ego as a kind of perceptual body.
So in the same way that the animal body controls the dream, the human ego controls the hallucination because dreams are distinct from hallucinations in the sense of being exteriorized.
That's precisely what's happening, I think.
And the ego can project its presumption of separateness onto features of experience, which is in a sense, the problem in science, a problem in science.
And thus reformulate what we, you know, what the word identity refers to in conception, reformulate identity in this kind of falsified ontology that seems to be concerned with resisting death.
Yeah, it's a resistance to enlightenment.
Yes.
Weirdly, though, it should be fairly clear that the idea of enlightenment has to have a negative thing to appear against, right?
And that thing is sort of the trenchant identifications and methods.
The ego uses to hide itself from the imminence of death, not imminence as in the future, the incoming-ness now of death.
Well, consider, too, that the attainment of self-consciousness in the dream world generally causes the dream environment to collapse.
So that collapse is a form of death.
But the same phenomenon takes place in the controlled hallucination of language.
Right.
So the ego keeps the environment stable.
So we fear death for that reason.
We fear losing the ego for that reason.
Because we think we're going to die.
Right.
It's just like a dream.
It's sort of like, yeah, because what takes place in a hallucination is the exteriorization or the condensation of the entire dream environment.
And we were talking about this early this week.
So you can understand a hallucinated presence as a condensation of what may have otherwise become a dream world.
But it appears as a being in the external environment through this kind of interference or interpenetration.
I would suggest that there's a similar principle at play as the principle that produces the forms of organisms.
Absolutely.
Yeah.
So physical reality is doing the same kind of thing.
Right.
Yeah.
Because an organism is nothing but the condensation of space as such.
It's a kind of compressed image of the totality of space.
But yeah, it's also it's localized, right?
It's a localized condensation.
Mm hmm.
So you learn something about cosmic space by learning how to move through an organism, as you were saying.
Mm hmm.
Yeah.
And this is fine.
So like, you know, the ancient South American peoples and certainly other peoples long ago learned skills or abilities.
Um, affordances, if you will, through which they would become animals.
They would become an animal.
Now, what this actually means is probably very confusing to moderns because we don't, you know, you didn't, we don't have the idea that you can become another organism or.
Move your locus of being into forms outside you.
But it seems clear that they regularly engaged in this.
Precise.
Yeah, precisely.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So in the same way that an organism renders the totality of space or the essence of light.
Yeah.
And or time.
Or time.
And time.
Right.
Light, space and time matter.
Yeah.
Go on.
As a kind of deviation from or remoteness from the underlying archetype, the hallucinated presence or the being renders its own remoteness from the dream environment that it otherwise would have become.
So there's a, there's a correlation between beings in a hallucination and organisms in physical space.
They emerge through the same kind of structure.
It's the same kind of projection, but they take place in opposite directions.
So, and that, again, that directionality is modulated by the body, but.
Um, we can also imagine that there's some kind of, um, motivating feature of that which is, uh, which is exploring the possibility space by, um, by the complex.
So, by the positives.
Elizabeth Wadley Jr.: Of localizing.
It's nature's and potentials as organisms and then relating with itself through those seemingly distinct separate forms.
Right.
Adventure, if you will.
also exploration because if you're just if you just stay in the unity it's not
that there's nothing going on like people just you know David Byrne said
heaven is a place where nothing ever happens not entirely untrue probably but
my point is that what I'm trying to get at is that from the position of unity
so let me talk actually about an experience briefly actually it may not be
that brief a long time ago I was occasionally experiencing sleep
paralysis and it was terrifying I would conceivably awaken quote-unquote feeling
that I could not breathe and that I was frozen and it seemed like death was
imminent which you know is is a scary thing especially when you're by
yourself if you think you're alone so anyway I would have these experiences
and they were frightening but they were also very profound and I had a few
extreme non-ordinary experiences that leapt off from that that state some of
which I've documented on my website I think in a part called the dream
ladder in any case so I decided that the next time it happened I would just go with
it and fairly shortly thereafter I woke up in probably the most extreme state of
paralysis I was also blind and I just decided to accept it instead of fight it and what
happened could be like into an out-of-body experience seemed as though I rushed up
through my body and exited the top of my head and obviously to describe such an
experience in language is a bit ridiculous but I'll give it a shot anyway it seemed
then I was in a I was in a space that was nothingness I guess you could say it was
black there was no there was nothing to see and it seemed that I was a snake like
being and I was you know doing the s motion of a snake but it also seemed that I was a god and I was the god
that causes all things to be and this motion of you know making the s shape back and forth in a body that I
could not see or even really feel this motion was absolutely ecstatic so it was it was more ecstatic
each time I moved and there was just this feeling of absolute primacy total omnipotence complete
liberation and ecstasy and I experienced this for some you know interval and then you know soup I was
back in the body and the first realization I had was a kind of childlike exclamation which is just you
were a monster which is you know hilarious and I don't know how important that is but the second
realization I had was oh now I get it now I understand what the Buddhists were saying or implying when they
said things like the human birth is the best of all possible births even gods are jealous of it
because only from that position do you have the potential for enlightenment and the gods are too
busy being ecstatic to ever be interrupted by anything resembling that right and what I'm trying to get at
with this with telling the story is to illustrate what I was saying before which is that
the physicalization the localization the expression of the character of origin and being an apocalypse you
know oblivion in distinct forms in relation within the material layer is profoundly contributive
so the nature of being if you're just in ex ever extending exploding ecstasy of unity if that's the only
position available perhaps something's missing oh yeah so it's as if the goal is to like become
separate confused left a bound right bound by forgetting and then from within that position to resurrect the
unity in this layer or something resembling this what are your thoughts oh certainly certainly certainly
yeah I tend to be averse to the one-sided approach that overemphasizes an abstract unity so
yeah I'm definitely on the same on the same wavelength yeah I mean there's um one of the things that
toymaker showed me is that material reality is doing something that's crucially like an organ of being an
origin and oblivion it's doing something that contributes to it's it sustains some feature of
the other layers the transcendental layers it nourishes them it brings them to life and perhaps gives them
something that we ourselves can profoundly value here in our human experience which is dream
right maybe we are the dreaming of unity
although you know I'm fine if you uh have disaffinity towards this idea of
like um no I mean I wouldn't necessarily disagree um
yeah because something is dreaming and that results in organisms and forms that something is very astonishing
you know it once occurred to me not too long ago that perhaps I've mentioned this probably to you before
but perhaps um if we entertain the idea of god or the being that dwells in unity or the great being or
something like this then perhaps what um organisms are what beings are down here on earth is like
like a droplet so to speak like that being reigns into existence little droplets right and then
each of those droplets is in a way god dying into the forgetting of being an incarnate
and then having the dream adventure of a separate incarnate aspect
and then when that being dies the droplet is resurrected in the communal unity of god
and that this process is enriching in a way that is not dissimilar to how we experience our dreaming
in which case death is backwards right death isn't
death is the opposite of the ending of myself yeah in fact life becomes the problem in that view right
and and certain greeks including those who practice the ellicinian mysteries
were clearly aware of this they saw the body as as basically like the crypt of the soul
the ceramic vessel into which the soul becomes entangled and trapped by essentially lethe right like forgetting
yeah well perhaps from my perspective life becomes omnipresent
but what what takes place are certain openings through which new forms of life can emerge
so your body becomes a tomb or a vessel in the sense that it becomes an opening
but i think life is is still omnipresent in that in that view
whereas death what trickles through the veil
is simply a deeper layer of temporality but it shares the same essence as light from which the form of
the body diverges progressively assumes different shapes as it becomes more integral as its parts become more
interrelated
yeah so basically what i think takes place is that these retrieval
structures or these keys become more dense
they become more dense over time over evolutionary time
but that same um interval can be understood to be embodied and in structured in the span of a single organism or even a single
so this um
you were saying something like evolution is either embodying or recapitulating this process
over evolutionary time did i understand that correctly or somewhat correctly yeah yeah and and then what i was saying was
in point of fact like it long ago occurred to me that you can't have anything that isn't doing that
so when i read the bible for example one of the ways i can think about it or actually any text
is um
it's not telling the story of time and history in the future
it can be understood to be telling the story of a single human lifetime
i experienced genesis i experience the loss of um direct connection with the divine i experience
uh the the sort of the birth of the dreamer that's prophetic i experience
what could be understood as the resurrection of abel in jesus
or i these are this is the story of my experience and so
it strikes me that each form recapitulates the entire historical
the entire history and future of this developmental process
in the interval of a lifespan but also in the interval of any moment you can't have a moment that
isn't like this what do you think oh yeah yeah so really it's like saying there isn't anything else
going on and what is going on is wildly transcendental to conceptual thought so much so that it would
in order for it to intrude into awareness directly i think it would obliterate conceptual thought and
then leave in the aftermath of that intrusion a bunch of seeds from which the possibilities of
conceptual thought could then be far superiorly reassembled and enacted which is something like
what i've been through and clearly in case this isn't obvious you know i have this experience which
i call toy maker or whatever um and it's hard for me to not to just ignore that or to pretend it didn't
happen because it it did this to me it obliterated the roots of my conceptual thought and it replaced
them with other stuff strangely though um our conversations and particularly your extremely
uncommon uh kind of forensic insight about nature and being and you know physics and language and so forth
is a very similar experience to be exposed to your mind resembles closely in some ways in the layer
of like speech and talk and thinking um the obliteration of the fictions that would ordinarily uh
like crudely and poorly delineate the possibility space so what you often do which i love is you come
in and you you obliterate a bunch of fictions by replacing them with features that are illuminated from
within right with intelligence and insight and the potential for few you know like for developing it
further so yeah if we were to be exposed to what's actually going on even slightly and perhaps this is
why people you know seek uh insight and enlightenment and why perhaps we are why we are here today um
um it naturally medicinally obliterates what could be understood as diseases of conception it's medicinal in
this way it's also like a drug that cleanses the organs of awareness so that now they can begin to see
as light itself as time itself as being itself from above the human uh predilection
to simply reproject the separation of the ego and its concerns about death onto forms and the categories
and so forth
yeah your your mind reminds me of toy maker
right right now why do you think that is
uh it's fairly obvious uh the way you use your intelligence has a similar kind of
i mean toy maker's mind had a broad array of features but the way you employ your intelligence what you do
with your capacities for thought and insight um very much resembles the
it's almost like you have
you have imagine that you have like a big a rock that you can hold and the rock is layered
so there's all these concretions and at the core of this layer at the core of the thing is a transcendental
object and that transcendental object is prohibited in the material layer right it must not be it must not
exist or be seen or be held and so what you do is you expose the concretion layers to various kinds of
acid right which doesn't completely remove them but it allows some of the force of that transcendental
object in the core to shine through into representational cognition uh the physical layer
such that the physical layer isn't destroyed by it it's um healed right now it becomes possible for
aspects of resurrection to occur in this moment does this metaphor make any sense yeah yeah but language i think
is a necessary medium there yeah no no i i don't disagree so what began as a kinesthetic encounter
transformed into a more linguistic structure but that structure itself prefigures a future state
so i'm preparing to do something in the future by speaking like this yes you know if that makes any
sense it does as am i yeah we're doing the same thing we're on the same path yeah but one of the
things that we're doing is we're sort of um we're reducing the inhibitive features of layers of historical
deception forgetting around something it's not really a transcendental object but i'm using that as
a metaphor around something that's so powerful that were it to be directly revealed it would be lethal in
the sense of killing i think maybe not maybe that's just the ego's fear but even toy maker made it clear
like you can't just go directly to the revelation unfiltered right it would how to put it
it would wreck the purpose of revelation to do that
yeah i love this uh play that we engage in together which is an amnoetic it's it's unforgetting but it's
not um it's a slow process of reducing deceptive
uh propositions and conceptions
rather than just you know the atomic bomb of insight
but yeah i love the way that you utilize the possibilities of your mind and intelligence
it's um it seems profoundly virtuous
so i'm aware that we're both humans and we have our you know our um psychologies
that motivate some of how we play
yeah yeah like the human form itself is some kind of opening which is why i mentioned earlier
that the human form harmonizes what becomes lateralized in the animal body i think that
insight holds a lot of potential for understanding i agree language and um symbolic thought
and also you can go from the material object like a rock to the you know you have these creatures that are
sort of in the in-between space of the plant and the animal or formlessness and form right features like
octopuses and jellyfish and so forth you have these exemplars of liminal modes of what we're discussing but
yeah if you were to just go from the rock to the plant to the animal to the human
you'd see the same process in different registers right exactly exactly so i mean look at if you just
if you go to people who collect exotic stones right and you look at some of those stones
you see the same incredible unimaginable
beauty and sophistication that you see in the in the catalog of animals you see the same thing in
the catalog of minerals it's just static well it's not static its temporalization is over a vastly larger
span it seems go ahead yeah i mean if you if you see how the animal internalizes what the plant externalizes
then you can you can peer back within or behind the plant to understand something about physics or
the stone or the rock as you're saying
yeah so if you yeah if you fold a plant outside in you get something like a mineral
it's like this progressive cascading series of returns or openings so so the plant is a kind of
opening through which something within time is incarnating so it's like yes it's like a life like
a living it's like you know you're eating reality at that point it totally is beings like a book
and you're you're reading something within nature so you can do physics just by learning how to use
your eyes properly in your in your mind to investigate phenomena right it's like you know we're we're
ordinarily oh i'm sorry go ahead oh no please go on yeah ordinarily we would think i would think since
i do think visually often and i was thinking visually about the rock plant animal human but you don't
want to stop there you want to go like you don't want to start there either you want to start with
like time space galaxy solar systems the sun the earth the rock the plant the human and then you know
what's above the human perhaps you know angels or whatever toy maker might be or whatever but you can
also think of that differently instead of thinking of it as a ladder which is the common
i think visualization mode you can think of insideness and you can think of like the insideness of light
time is an animal right or the inside of light time is a star is a world is a rock and inside the rock is
the plant and inside the plant is the animal and inside the animal is the human right instead of
thinking of a ladder oh absolutely yeah right yeah like like neoplatonism which you know isn't isn't
entirely erroneous but thinking hierarchically can get in the way of deeper insight for sure it does like
it's so different if you think for example the earth is inside the sun
this was a staggering insight when it first occurred to me because what i began to think was that
just in terms of an analogy um the solar system resembles a cell
and quote the sun is not the star it's the bubble around the sun in which the organs of the sun exist
does that make sense yeah and so then the earth is the sun is like the nucleus of that organism
and the earth is like an organelle in that organism or it's not even an organism it's a transcendental
thing we don't have a category for we could invent a category for it
um but what i mean to say is it's it's more than a being in the sense that it produces beings
as a side effect of whatever it is that's doing it's doing that's inconceivable to us categorically
so like in the same way the sun produces organisms on earth you know i was arguing the other day i was
um writing an essay which you know isn't necessarily all that great it's a short one um evolution
doesn't explain species and i was saying you know what did i actually say um
um the actual progenitor of organisms is the sun it's not like we are not um the result of primate
evolution we are the result of solar evolution right so you can think of or if you want to
just start at the sun because the everything is kind of big then and so then the sun becomes the
localization of the organizational principles that produce form in matter
and it's really weird to me that humans don't think this way like when i was introduced to these
ideas i was like what the was i thinking before you know how could i even that wasn't even what was
that i was doing yeah well what were you thinking specifically so do you remember yeah i was thinking
uh in relatively darwinian terms right like um species are the result of the you know process of
structuring dna over generations we evolved from primates and so forth um you know we probably came
from the ocean blah blah blah you know the basic darwinian narrative was what i was usually thinking i think
and it's not wrong but it's wildly deceptive and there are features of it that are wrong
that are right right yeah of course
yeah i think it's important to switch from the latter which is the common metaphor
to interiorization or even something more profound like everything we've discussed today
emerges from the dandelion toy emerges naturally from the dandelion toy
where in very brief i mean i don't want to be tedious but like all of time space matter and form
collapse to unity and they expand back to distinction instant to instant at an ever increasing rate so that
that all of the experiential information that is structured and gathered and created in the distinction of
beings and situations collapses unity all that information is shared and then it expands back to
distinction like a kind of an ever increasing heart rate um and in this model everything that you
that you it's easy for me to place your insights in this model which is a toy right it's just something to
play with in mind and in that sense um
um it would be like one of the which of the features has precedence waking or dreaming
or waking or sleeping um does the unity have precedence or the the distinction that's not
really the right question it's a natural concern uh but i would suggest that the unity probably has
precedence which means that most of the time in this toy most of the time distinct separation isn't there
yeah and and from this position if you could follow the collapse to unity with your consciousness or
awareness first you'd experience something like enlightenment which would be overwhelming
but then you might be able to develop the skill to draw like to follow the collapse into unity
and then to draw features or assets or affordances from that position back into the apparent separation phase
and this is what i think psychism is and many non-ordinary abilities
but again it's a toy i'm not saying this is what's happening i think what's actually happening is so
impossible to conceive of but making face noises about it is well it can be useful but it's kind of a
confused game
well face noises i think play a role in the same way that any organism plays a role
so if you as we always say here like if you learn to correlate the parts of a living being
you can use parts as keys to unlock the whole and i think this was understood in paleontology a long
time ago if you take a part of an organism you can reconstruct the whole according to the correlation
of parts which in different animal species is exaggerated or uh caricatured along different uh axes or directions
and the same process can take place in cognition where you know certain certain concepts can be
overemphasized or exaggerated at the expense of others
um but not necessarily at the expense but i get what you're saying
yeah but it's like language can exhibit the same temporal holographic structure as the body of a living
thing and that's when you know that you're thinking correctly you're sort of you're doing yeah you're
doing the right thing there yeah i absolutely agree i think um so like
when i say face noises i'm making like a broad universal generalization but
and i'm probably concerned about the worst common denominator right um
but obviously when we're doing things like what we're doing here we're enacting
a branch of the possibility space of language and conceptual thought and so forth
um that is liberating and profound and i also think there's something going on like it's not an accident
but humans develop representational cognition we are just like in the forms
of the organisms of the organisms of earth being expressions and in action embodiments
of the complex character and nature and perhaps something resembling purposes of that which is
what we've done in representational cognition is invented a new layer
and actually the key insight that led me into the experience of toy maker was the insight that the
the environment
enacted and embodied by human cognition is like a world but it's invisible to us and in that world
we are doing something like the formation of organisms and this is of course what i mean by thrisps
right there are these we are making forms in this space
they're not alive in the way organisms are but they are like persistent and transforming structures
over time and obviously there must be things we can do
together and i think we're approaching them here
which are non-ordinary
right there are not the things that humans ordinarily do with language and conceptual thought
even in philosophy right there's there's an outer space
in the same way there's an outer space to the earth there's an outer space to representational cognition
which is directly accessible to us if we together um potentiate with our intention and our um
our heartful uh urgencies
there's an outer space that we cannot nearly be explore we can become it
like we are here to become the impossible
and i know that you know it sounds like a contradiction in terms of it's impossible
because you're not doable right yeah sure in the uh crude linguistic derivations
but no we are here to draw
the outer reaches of the possibility space of our existence and our our cognition and our awareness
our consciousness into inaction yeah and so yeah i really think we are here to become the impossible
together and whenever we incline ourselves to this pursuit then i think the divine quote unquote becomes
interested right it's as if it's as if in a way we're trying to attract
the the um hopefully benevolent intrusion of intelligences beyond ours
right and of course that you know that's why we have religion essentially
regardless of how distorted it's become
yeah yeah this is why i often you know rail against set theory because i find that set theory destroys
your capacity to your capacity to really think clearly so like it severs the the bridge
it prevents you from accessing the bridge in the right way that's interesting because um
i'm i'm not uh antagonistic to that view but at the same time in my own cognitive development
um there was a phase where actually set theory was crucial for my development it led me into insights
playing with it led me into insights right and you know sometimes the existence of something that
fucks up our capacity for insight it becomes like a um in the mind it can become kind of
like a little uh cyst right becomes like a cyst which then uh you know once i went i had a cactus spine in
my heel and i went to uh you know i went to like a surgeon and he was pulling some of the spines out of
my finger which was a lot of fun and i i said you know i've got the spine in my foot and he looked at
and he said yeah um but what we're going to do is not dig it out and i was like okay what's up with
that it's like well here's what your body will do it'll form a cyst around it and the cyst will partly
dissolve it over time and then it'll eject it and so there's there's some features of the problems in
our experience of being human with other humans and the ideological graveyards that we you know that
our insight finds its birth within um there are these problematical features right and they become
sort of like a a bone that we just keep chewing on right until it starts to break open and then light
comes out or something right oh yeah yeah you're wrestling with set your horus at that point so yeah
that's the kind of a that's the kind of a pun that only you could come up with like yeah set theory
you know yeah it's a problem yeah so you just become become set wrestling with horus it's hilarious
but yeah set theory was super it still remains super important to me um
um because it introduced me to the problem of distinct categories which is all you know it
also can be liberating my son and i were having a discussion the other night uh we were talking
about music and um i i was resistant there's a there's a part of me that is resistant to learning
technically uh music theory and all of these things right because i'm a naive musician
and so when i pick up the instrument uh the guitar for example there's this incredible openness and
intimacy and naivete at play i don't know what notes i'm playing i don't know what key i'm in
and
i'm kind of resistant to introducing the science of it
because i think it will destroy my naivete which is valuable my innocence um and the intimacy that
arises between me and the instrument in that way right uh but but every time right but every time
that i've actually studied for example uh classical music for anyone that wants to play the guitar just
get frederick node's book and it'll teach you step by step that's really good what happens is the
opposite right the structured knowledge introduces possibilities to to my still present naivete and
fascination and intimacy that would be otherwise impossible oh yeah definitely yeah you don't
want to remain naive you don't want to yeah right well i feel the same impulse you know yeah yeah i
understand that you could think for example or waking consciousness is the destruction of dreaming
why would you want to introduce that no no you need to keep those separate so that the dreaming
mind is free oh really well what about lucid dreaming and then what about the possibilities
that you experience in lucid dreaming um which is an accessible thing for most of us if we actually
want to pursue it um what about the obvious corollary which i almost never hear described and i think
perhaps we're approaching it in our play today of lucid waking
it's so interesting that people are fascinated by lucid dreaming but they never transfer the concept
and wonder like what what would it be like to have the corollary in waking experience
and one of the things that is like is insight but there are many other things that can be like
just as is true in what we call lucid dreaming
right right yeah absolutely
yeah for for me my resistance to you know certain subjects stems from a similar kind of fear of losing
naivete but i can also recognize that that fear is really just the fear of death because when you
when i expose myself to a subject i realize that no i don't die i'm actually sort of enhanced by
by the experience so you don't want to reject something through naivete that's the wrong path
right you want to experience something and then reject it in full awareness
i think that's the you know the true approach to ethical life like you can't you can't pretend to be a
saint if you've never experienced sin like you have to have experienced sin and then seen through it
like you see the folly of it and then you yeah person yeah yeah so this is part of what's going on
in the incarnation field right the um i mean i don't have words to describe i usually refer to these
things somewhat naively i'll call it like origin or the origin world and when i use the phrase the
origin world i'm thinking like a child about it i'm not thinking like in a sophisticated way but it's
as if the origin world dies into of course what is meant by death in this case it's not any kind of
like the whole concept of death i think it's inside out and upside down and just like confusing
it's very real to the animal aspect of me right if someone says want to die right now and you're like
uh no and if i'm presented with the actual onset of death terror usually ensues um although you know
that one time when i was sleep for out you know paralyzed um i just decided to go with it and the
result was certainly nothing terrifying but what was really confusing about that and i want to highlight
this briefly is that in that transcendental experience that i had
there was no change or actually okay the possibility of change was vectored
so that the only direction change could could occur in was an increase in ecstasy over time that was
the only change there were no actions there was no memory i did not remember being a self or a human or
darren or any of that all that was gone there was just the sinuous movement and an increase in exaltation
which is a very uncommon emotion for humans to experience an increase in exaltation and an increase
in ecstasy and when i came back into my body i was like that would be really right i was like
so there's you can't do or become anything except more exaltation and ecstasy all being humans amazing
so yeah the possibility space was limited profoundly to what i can understand only as these two features
and they were super blissfully ecstatically orgasmically exciting but there wasn't anything
else to do be think relate with and it was lonely from from a human perspective right it was like i am the only
one i am the only one
i don't think that's what death is like i think that's what being a god is like
a god of cause or something like this and i don't know what to make of that experience i'm not claiming
it was you know an intimation of ontological validity or anything like that but i remember when i came back
to myself being so happy to be to have the possibility space that is our human inherent you know nature
so yeah i want to hear more about this um so did you just say that ecstasy only increases
and tell me yes so okay so you know zoom i go out of my body so to speak
in that moment all literally there was no more darren no more humanness no more world no more thoughts
no thinking no possibility of thought right it was just the experience the sort of it's like what you
said in a way the tactile experience of time right i was a sin i was sinuicing right i was um slithering
in blackness and i was black so i didn't really have a body there was nothing to see and every time
i would see that's not true it wasn't a time i was waving right i was waving like a snake and i i've
on on awakening i thought of myself as having been a kind of a invisible snake and with each movement
of course there was no separation between movements right so it's not like there was a movement but as
i was moving in this sinuous back and forth s-shaped way i was causing all it seemed as though i was the
cause of all phenomena i was the primordial cause and i was a being and every aspect of the movement
was more ecstatic than the previous aspect so it was it was basically like ecstasizing
right every every movement was more ecstatic than the last one and there was a sense of kind of absolute
exultation um i don't even know how to characterize what exultation is it's a kind of um
um almost fatally enthusiastic uh self-aggrandizement sure right right you're becoming a god
yeah but you're not just like happy with yourself you're like a volcano that keeps becoming a bigger
volcano every time it volcanoizes right right now were you slithering in place uh it seems that i was
moving through the nothing as as the like localization of all of the powers of the notness ah okay okay
yeah so i was at once all things and nowhere of course saying the word i is kind of ridiculous but
we i i i i experienced something very similar actually um a similar kind of void
why i'm curious well by all means speak of it if you care to
uh well as opposed to slithering through some dark expanse i felt my body and dissolve like mist
so you know i experienced a similar kind of sleep paralytic uh state and upon sinking into it and
embracing the darkness as as you did i felt my body um evaporate so my my whole body felt like it became
maybe as large as a like a small house and um yeah like a gas or like a like a diffused mist of
some kind and it was dark and uh somewhat terrifying but there was a boundary to that kind of globe that i
became and i popped out on the other side within the external world but it was suffused with colored lights
which were moving like um like an interference pattern um so basically what i think happened is that
in dreaming imagery arises through the morphology of the body but what can take place in this kind of
sleep paralytic state is that the immobilization of the body can serve as the basic template like a dream
um but the interference pattern beyond the physical realm can become perceptible so you don't
necessarily need a physical body to perceive the external environment i think that was what i learned
um but you see more information so you actually see more information than what you
you see with your physical eyes yes yeah it's like you're perceiving more it's a hyper real environment
and i think you're perceiving something or at least i thought that i was perceiving something within the
structure of time like these um interference or resonance phenomena that were outside my body
so yeah so i saw the physical world plus this other layer which was like a liquid or fluid layer
um with like different undulating colors and threads that looked like static electricity or um almost like
um not static electricity but like tendrils of golden light like so so the the tendrils of golden
light were at the were at the peaks of these wave fronts that i was perceiving within the environment
and they were uh violet so this distinction between violet and gold pertains to color theory at a deeper
level so it's it's pretty fascinating um so yeah that experience was was pretty profound for me
but it was preceded by the void as you were saying so yeah yeah see this points up again but um
oh god there's so much here so
so we think we are human beings that is not what we are um ordinarily we're essentially
kind of in uh uh a form of hallucination in a way but it's very trappy in that it's quite we can't
just step out of it um at any moment because we'd like to right but the the actual potential space of what
we are is undelimited
it has no limit
and what we ordinarily think of as ourselves
is almost like thinking i am a fork
like i am a piece of silverware it's that wrong it's that confused
right right and and we live most of us unless we're very lucky or we get to play with others
who have um
who have been outside the cage right like plato's cave kind of um unless we we we are lucky or we are
very curious and playful and exploratory or we have a happy accident or we experience something that
deeply draws into question um what we think of as what we are uh this is the problem of what again
um then we're going to live possibly not just one but conceivably many lives
trapped in this little tiny cage of what we aren't
yes right and so part of i think why we gather and why you know like our what we think of as our work
which i think should at least be seen as much as it is work it should be seen as play and exploration and
adventure um you know we hope to
make egress right to to create egress from the silverware problem
i am a fork i am a thing yeah what we are is nothing like what we've been told or commonly think
and what awareness and consciousness are or can become is vastly more profound than the wildest fictions
we've ever heard right those fictions are little hypostases of the possibility space the points in
the direction of egress yeah
yeah but what i think happened is that i transitioned from a state of waking consciousness to a state of
deep sleep almost instantaneously so i bypassed the dream realm so i bypassed something about my own
morphology which enabled me to perceive the external world in a different way um yeah i think that's
another key um component to like yeah i would also yeah i think too like what we were talking about
earlier when i was saying um i'll get back to this topic so that i don't just bird walk here but that
music changes the mode of your soul making music and experiencing it particularly making it and dancing
and so forth this changes what your soul is is and is doing you changed the form
structurized functions and locality of consciousness right you traversed a gap
between the trap and one of the modes of liberty
it precisely yeah so like the image of your environment
has a certain cause which is ordinarily invisible or dormant in in the image
but it can be revealed you can you can reveal its deeper structure and
it's deeper structure has something to do with light and time
yes you know i'm reminded again so earlier i was reminded of um
those humans who could become animals and obviously it should be clear anyway
that there are at least two forms of this
one of them is that you move your awareness into the body of an actually existing animal
i know at least one person who practices this and i you know i trust this person i don't think
they're just out of their minds um and have and has practiced it for a long time with people who you
know traditionally for many decades you know for decades and decades have done this um but there are
stories from south america that probably originally reached common awareness through carlos castaneda
and uh these uh what he calls sorcerers which i think is a tragic misnomer and these days the word
shaman is so value laden that one likes to just avoid it entirely um
but so it should be clear that there are at least two modes of this one is to move your awareness
into another organism that could be a tree it could even be a living place or a lake
it could also be the sky but another is to become and this is what they clearly meant
when they use this word nahuatl n-a-g-u-a-l um to take on the form of an animal and so imagine that a
human being let's say they oh god actually this whole the whole paradigm is wrong um
but imagine that a human being somehow actually disappears from physical reality so they're in their
bed then they are gone from the bed and somewhere else there is a jaguar for example which is that
person now well whatever that is that is not an animal right it's certainly not a regular jaguar what
the is that you see what i'm getting at like the category gets destroyed
if someone saw it an ordinary person would think ah there is a jaguar
a seer would see oh that is not a jaguar right that is the you know open parentheses redacted
close parentheses of a human doing this thing yeah they would see the uplink right yes
they would see the uplink and so i mean this this introduces the whole concept of seeing
what is seeing but what i was going to what what you what what you said reminded me of was certain
um dissertations by castaneda in which he is uh recapitulating what he claims to have been the
instructions of don juan his nagual teacher and don juan would just say like this thing you think of as
the world it's not here it doesn't even exist you're constructing that and if you were to stop
constructing it somehow or if you could be forced to stop constructing it then you would see
he doesn't mean like with your eyes
well sometimes maybe with your eyes but yeah yeah sure
um there's an there's a thing where uh there's an adventure i remember where i think they go to
meet another nahual him and don juan and castaneda is going through this long situation with his car
or it's not working properly and he's trying to get it repaired and he's trying to drive them to the
city and all these things and the whole time um don juan and the the other not wall which might be
don juan i can't remember they're just laughing like like hysterically they think this is the funniest
thing that's ever happened and eventually um castaneda becomes angry with them
and says you know i'm trying to get us they're driving in the car and these guys are in the back
and they're just cracking up and he's like i'm trying to get us to the city what is so funny why
why don't you help me and then suddenly the car is gone don juan is standing on the porch
and they're holding his hat and they're just laughing hysterically and they say your car isn't even here
he was interacting with his hat now this can be seen metaphorically too but what they're actually
saying is that they constructed or he constructed a whole set of events in reality which were physically
real to him that did not exist right right and what what don juan is actually saying is that consensus
reality is a function of what people are doing that they are not aware they are doing and they don't
know how to stop doing so they are subjected to it
and so his advice very similar to the advice of a zen master but differently motivated
is to stop the mind to bring the mind to cessation and you know in that state or in that position of
liberation the world that normally appears to us disappears
and it's basically like the onset of an infinite possibility space
and i mean i found these um stories very profound and inspiring and confusing
and i practiced some of the practices associated with them
um i think the primary two are recapitulation and the erasure of the self
there's another current world novel i think his name is um
what's his first maybe it'll come to me um sergio mangon and he talks about some of these practices
and one of them is um using a mirror and practicing uh eliminating the appearance of yourself in the mirror
um until you can look at the mirror and not see any person there
and he claims that the ancient um aztecs and toltec people their healers and their you know their magic
persons uh practiced this um until they developed expertise at it and then it led to a variety of
non-ordinary abilities ah great right i think you know john d actually used an obsidian mirror that he acquired from the aztecs
yeah they used so what he says is that we can use you can use a regular mirror today
but back then what they used was a bowl of water which they set on their belly and was sometimes comprised of obsidian
and there are many sculptures of south american you know ancient south american people that show them
with this bowl on their belly gazing into it or becoming animals
yeah i mean consider too that many ufo encounters usually involve
characteristics that suggest a different interaction with time rather than simple movement through space
um you know like sudden appearances and disappearances or extreme acceleration with no inertia
so i think through the lens of something like temporal holography ufo phenomena can be understood more
coherently as self-organizing temporal structures rather than uh necessarily objects moving through space
yeah yeah so so we have the idea right we have the idea and it seems to be a real thing um of what we
what we call a shooting star right but we don't have the idea of what we call a shooting time
right nicely so yeah this has occurred to me as well um
for some reason the humans seem to want to think either in one of three ways right
um people in a vehicle right people in a spaceship um demons or angels
uh so like aliens demons and angels
um but this is the problem with categories themselves when you see an animal you are not
seeing what you think you're seeing it's in fact i would argue that it is impossible for you to think
of what you are seeing you can do it in the human representational game right you say oh there's a
raccoon yeah sure sure you have no idea what you're seeing and what you're seeing is just as weird
at least as weird as if beings in a spaceship came down from outer space and introduce themselves to you
um it's the same thing in fact there isn't any other thing
um but what i was going to say about those three categories right aliens uh angels or demons
and there might be cases in which something resembling that is provisionally you know not stupid to think
but a bunch of other things have occurred to me one of them is very similar to what you're saying
it's a temporal phenomenon but it's also a localization
of layers that are beyond what we have categories for in language that are originary trans temporal
multi-temporal um liminal expressions of the possibility space of being or time or light
right one of the things that humans don't really think is that
it's obvious that time space forms if i'm just using that for the container right the universe whatever
it forms expressions of itself that are temporalized so why wouldn't the sky form expressions of itself
that are temporalized that appear locally here what if the the category of that phenomena
is anti to our category tree in at least some of the instances another thing that occurred to me is that
it could be a kind of feedback effect in time as if time is dreaming itself and that appears to beings as beings
but i get what you're saying like the um the linear structure of a ufo encounter
from say appearance to perhaps interaction to disappearance
it has the fingerprint of a temporal phenomenon not a physical one
yeah like especially if you consider their interaction with light
so you know these beings or these objects they're not objects but these phenomena
um either seem to be composed of light or to absorb light in bizarre ways
um so they can appear to be and also to feared yeah yeah it's almost as if light is itself playing with
humans and trying to figure out like to be human could be as weird to light as light is to humans
right so if light if the sort of the spirit of light were trying to contact humans it would probably look
a lot like ufos or it would look like angels right right might look like demons right right right
yeah exactly like humans keep thinking sorry no you're good i recently became aware of the connection
between these flying balls of light and structured craft so they actually appear to be different
phases of the same process so as opposed to regarding these phenomena as objects
they should be regarded as phases of a single process so somehow light materializes into a structured
object which can then transform in midair and disappear and the way that it flicks out of
existence resembles like turning a light switch sometimes or it appears to travel an astronomically large
region of space um instantly uh but that kind of behavior to me suggests something more like a
self-organizing temporal structure or intelligence so yeah it's almost like well it's like a fully
exteriorized temporal cognition right it's like yeah it's like what we're on the threshold of developing
as human beings it's it's it's the exteriorization of what we're doing at some level yeah it's as if
you know people have said things like oh it's us from the future what do they mean by us
they don't even know what they are right the humans are just as weird as anything in a ufo
in terms of like if you just surveyed
the existence space from the beginning to the end of the universe and you encounter as humans you'd be
like what the is that you know it's just as weird as anything else so is a raccoon
it's ultimately weird it's infinitely weird and the humans keep thinking we're a separate thing
how could that be true like where's the separation
right when they look up in the sky and they see things they don't think that's me they think that's
other yeah but it can't be that way you understand it's formally impossible for it to be that way
what is the thing that separates them their form their thinking what is it their form is an expression
of the thing they're looking at right so what the are you thinking right right what is that okay good
luck what are you let me just ask a really simple question which i like to ask because i think it's
kind of mind-blowing do you know any person who knows what anything is even one thing
how could you know what something is you'd have to know what everything is to know what something is
wouldn't you
well yeah i mean you never know what something is in the sense of representing it
so if by knowing something you mean developing a mental picture of it then no
when you know something you're actually you're you're with it you're not sort of outside it
looking at it making a picture right well this is you know this is important there's there's many
kinds of knowing right and the representational kind is essentially matching the phenomena with an
object in a lexicon no
the representational kind is like is that a tree or not a tree
and rarely would even an ordinary person hold the superposition of
well categorically it's a tree relationally
i don't have words for that and transcendentally i have no idea what that is or even it's impossible
to know what that is so there's that kind of sort of representational knowing which looks to me like
matching um features of phenomenal experience with lexicals in catalog that's familiar to us
but then there's like relational knowing which is a fast continuum infinite all these continue are
infinite even the representational one
um but like to kiss another human being is a kind of a knowing that is that transcends radically the
lexicon um but when people are looking at the sky and they're asking it's different right like if
i'm looking at my kitchen table i'm like is that a cup yeah okay that's good no problem that works
but when you look at the sky or you think about origin because i think of the sky and origin
somewhat synonymously right where do things come from the sky or but it's actually they don't even
things don't exist and they don't come from the sky it's one thing enacting its natures and forms
in a kind of a weird unity in any case the humans are trying to figure out what that phenomenon in
the sky is good luck you don't know they don't know what rocks are you think you're going to figure
out the phenomenon in the sky what are you going to do attach it to a lexicon that makes it comfortable
and manipulable i guess that's what they're trying to do what do you think yeah i think when most people
say i know they mean i have a picture or i have a photograph which is some kind of static uh you
know document that i can use to yeah um whatever navigate some territory like a map right yeah um but
i think knowing is really indistinguishable from the process of becoming itself so when you know something
you're no longer in the state of being with a static artifact or with um some picture you're sort of
there's no distinction between being and knowing at that point so it's not as if you have anything
so you no longer have knowledge or have a picture your knowing is identical with the phenomenon itself
that's yeah so i think i usually call that intimacy but i get it yeah i get it yeah you'd be you sort
your identities merge so you lose yourself and you're sort of losing yourself you're dying at a certain
level yeah i mean death and intimacy might be the same damn thing yeah right see that's what we fear
it we're afraid of it right right especially well i mean it might be reasonable to be afraid of sudden
uncontrolled intimacy with the infinite i can see how that could be problematical
the things in the sky yeah i get what you're saying so they have this i want to highlight this character
of a curve of changing forms of expression over a span of time from onset to departure right and
when we look at something we're looking at an exemplar of of something resembling you know people say
this and it makes me itchy but it's like we're looking at a frequency um the raccoon is a kind of a
frequency of the localization of the evolutionary span from beginning to end of a universe
universe right so it's like a compressed living time image it's not just playing something back
um it's making the something that it's resurrecting into material reality as well it's being that it's
not just uh you know like a replay of a say a hologram that includes time um where am i going here
right okay so imagine that um what the thing in the sky is is a non-thing and what it's doing
is it's uniquely localizing and exemplifying
the entire lifespan of the universe all of organismal evolution those beings that step out of the the craft
they are the summation body over evolution yeah outside of time right and so that thing arises locally
and when it arises locally let's be clear lots of reliable things like temporality location
memory all kinds of things just warp which is what they would naturally do in the presence of a highly
concentrated expression body of the forces of which they are comprised the forces that cause their form
in the same way the sun causes light this kind of a thing
yeah like imagine a form of cognition that
is that in thinking directly interacts with time itself and changes time
i think that approaches more closely what it would be like
to be one of those beings so in thinking you're actually changing time you're actually changing
something yes time by thinking you won't experience that but we're sort of we we're preparing the way
we do expectation no no i think we do because even in our conversations we are creating a unique mode of
time in thought and speech which is rarely instanced around here right we're a bit like a ufo this is
the thing in fact when we get together we do this thing that makes us like a ufo except we're doing it
in the mind rather than you know who knows you know what would be hilarious is like
we have this conversation this is like a long comedy skit right we have this conversation here today on
earth right and on a planet you know 700 000 light years away from us people are seeing in the sky
the summation body of the origin and future of this conversation right now as a ufo
because somewhere in the universe what we're doing is hyper concentrated and in other parts of the
universe what we're doing is hyper diffuse you see what i'm getting at at least in in this toy in the
toy i'm making yeah right
so you know there's another comedy skit where the humans are collecting um what they think of as artifacts
from ufos and those actually aren't artifacts what those are are the result of the local materialization
of those phenomena in structured time light it's not a ship right it's it's yeah it's literally as if you
could speak and cause matter by being that compressed what happens is your intention just forms an object
around you so what the humans are collecting aren't are non-technological objects what they actually are
are is like the what's a good metaphor
imagine the surface of a soap bubble
and then imagine that inside the soap bubble okay let's say that this is a very special soap bubble
so inside the soap bubble there's a transcendental object which is actually more than a being
there's a bizarre thing we don't have a name for yet we can invent one that's and that might be useful
but inside the bubble there's this thing and so the thing comes into existence and then the bubble forms
around it and it goes say to earth and then when that thing disappears the structured shell of the bubble is
left over and it's not even an object it's it's an accidental concretion of the fact of the localization
of the forces and intelligences that we're instancing
it's sort of like a false fossil does it make any sense i know i'm being wildly speculative
no i think it makes sense but yeah well this is why i said that um the distinction between being and
knowing collapses when you board the ufo because you're no longer they say they say things like
you know we're really worried about your species
when you're learning to perceive organisms in the way that we're describing so you're doing something in
miniature that these beings are also doing um yeah so their cognition is an exteriorized form of what we
do in language so when they speak they actively transform material reality including our minds
yeah i think they can directly structure human consciousness yeah humans say things like oh they
were telepathic no they weren't telepathic because they didn't have a separate mind your mind is a tiny
peripheral extension of what they are sure right can you see how confused it's like if one of your
fingers got terrified of your hand i mean the irony right is miles deep it's a demon right it's it's
something kill it with fire kill it right imagine if your pinky decided that the rest of your body
was an alien you know just reacted constantly your hand would be dragging you all over that you wouldn't
be able to do any action at all right so whatever those are they must really feel sorry for us because
we're in this very peculiar situation as humans where the possibility space
is very profoundly beautiful and shockingly rare right and then our our place in that space
is as creatures who are not merely entirely blind to it they run in terror if any evidence of it arises
and part of the reason they do that is that it would destroy the representational model
of what's going on that they live in i too me too i'm aware of this and i still live in the
representational model like for me this is a big adventure we're like i'm putting like one foot
outside the cage with you you know what i mean yeah i'm just as stuck there but when i think about
like what are ufos i definitely don't start with well there are either aliens or angels or demons
people from another planet they're like i can do all that too i'm not um so averse to it that i just
reject it out of hand right i will entertain all of those positions but for me the problem is far worse
it's what are raccoons right that's a much worse problem because ufos you don't you're not likely
to encounter one in your lifetime although maybe you're more likely these days but uh but you know
you can encounter raccoon and the thing that i really wish humans would understand my other fellow
humans is just that when you're looking at organisms you're looking at space life
these are things from space
the the earth is like to me when i'm you know when i take off my human blinders
the earth is like a concrete sense of the evolutionary possibilities on all worlds in all of time
so they are all here all of them in fact you could even imagine yeah that you can this
it just it releases me from anything resembling what my fellow humans think about or or experience
actually when they look at a tree or a bee it looks like it's from outer space people for a very simple
reason it is there isn't another place for it to be from in human thought we precedence our planet and
think oh no this is a very special place it's separate from the rest of them places and you know
these are just earth organisms thereby we can ignore the fact that nothing is ordinary in the way we're
trained to suppose sorry if i blathered on there but yeah a raccoon that's just as weird as an alien
it's just a different temporal localization of the same thing you get in any phenomena
and its differences are instructive like those of a book the frog is a library
all right the tree is a library yeah yeah except the books are alive and they'll teach themselves to
you yes right yeah so you're learning to speak in the right way yeah when you're learning how to do
that yes yes this is what it means to be human not the other thing that's what it means to be i don't
know a bad thing if i'm just to speak like a child a trapped thing a blind thing
yeah so on the one hand i love this idea that from the onset to the departure from the onset to end
and then obviously um that's not enough but because what happens is when the experience ends
quote unquote for the humans that that participate in it then there are waves after the ending inside
the people of the resulting transformations of their fundamental ontologies but also their emotions and
their psyche and their lexicon all these things have been interrupted i guess wasn't benny and barney hill's
story called the interrupted journey or something like this it's been interrupted there's been an
direct intrusion of the transcendental and it calls into question what the meaning of real is
exactly yeah and that okay that one root wow i've just realized there's a thing that isn't
necessarily a holophore and might not yet be a uniform yeah the word real is the fundamental pivot of
all ontologies if you move that the whole structure can't be sustained do you follow
uh no please go on okay if you if you change the meaning of real
to you know from um what i'm experiencing right now walking around my house everything's ordinary stable
known i know where all these things are blah blah blah right um that's safe and familiar but if you
introduce something that fundamentally alters what real is and you have the direct experience of it so
it's real to you we must suppose unless you imagine it's a hallucination or something
but that's the other thing when humans are experiencing ufos i know i'm branching here but
they're experiencing a blurring of the categories of identity which are familiar
and particularly the categories light time organism or being space matter all of these are being changed
because they now include a thing that doesn't exist in your lexicons and you're having a direct
experience of it that throws the whole lexicon into disarray in terms of what do what what are
identities right what does it mean to be a being or a thing oh all of that yeah of course all of that is
drawn into question
yeah yeah so similarly to if we were to encounter a dead person even in consciousness yeah go ahead
oh yeah i mean as opposed to an object in space the ufo is more like an object that destabilizes every
other object so yes you you're describing it in terms of a lexicon but what destabilizes the image
of the external world there is actually that form of identification which takes place it's it's just like
attaining self-consciousness in a dream you realize that your identity is co-extensive with this object
in space and that identification disrupts surrounding phenomena because you're breaking out of the
hallucination basically you're it's just like what happens when you realize that you're dreaming you
realize that you have some other identity and so then the dream world starts to collapse and that's
what the ego wants to prevent it's trying to prevent that scene from collapsing it's trying to keep you
alive basically but it's well yeah just to be clear though in extended lucid dreaming the the um
the possibility space includes the extension of the lucidity dreaming relationship it doesn't always
only collapse it no just because yeah we i just wanted to clarify that so sometimes what happens is it
can intensify and preserve the the manifold of the dream in unique ways that are otherwise impossible
it yeah okay but yeah this is the thing i just want to say oh sorry go ahead okay go on god i'm very
i'm very excited so um okay
suppose then that at least in some cases because the phenomena is is a broad continuum of of you know
experiences that humans have had and reports of them but suppose that in some cases what the appearance of
a ufo most resembles
is lucidity intruding into
human experience
yes yes yeah it's the exemplar of lucidity and what it actually does it might as well be a god in
that case right it's the exemplar of lucidity and what it actually is doing well what it can be understood
to be doing is
the local
rapid coalescence of the spirit of lucidity in existence i mean what i mean is in material reality
at the material level it's a localization of maybe of the spirit of light right which isn't necessarily not
an angel but it probably isn't a demon
yeah it's an exemplar but it isn't the only instance because it actually reveals that
right other phenomena abide by the same principles in a dampened way in
in a more chaotic way so it reveals something about physics in this exemplary form
but it also can teach you how to think correctly about certain other phenomena like life like living
beings and what they are
so it doesn't just drop the lexicon i'm saying it's um
yeah it's it's a deeper as you know i was but it does
no no but it ruins um it lays i mean at least in my experience right of toy maker which is
sort of like having an extended ufo experience in my own as my own mind or something
but anyway
um yeah it obliterated a bunch of fictional features of my lexicons and inverted precedences
right so that i began to have natural thoughts about nature and identity and relationship that
were nothing like those supposed by the lexicons i was trained in the conceptual lexicons as well as
the word you know the word ones well you in my experience i realized that the presence of a lexicon
was an indication of the absence of thinking itself
that makes any sense yeah it totally does
you know you're not yeah
and i think that's maybe what i'm trying to get at
but do you mean um do you mean the idea of a lexicon as a problem or the existence of the lexicons we used
from which we derive linguistic reference yeah yeah so the existence of the lexicon from which we derive
uh concepts is itself a kind of obfuscation of a deeper uh kind of experience which is what i
usually call knowing like to know something so you know but you mean more like gnosis
yeah i think what you tend to call communion so from my perspective yeah communion are one and the
same thing it's really a form of love it's like a form of intimacy as you say right so to know a
being is to love it there's no difference between those two things
you can't know something without loving it i mean i guess right what you have instead
is is a you have a fetish that's standing in the way of the love of something yes yes that's the
lexicon that's the fish right exactly yeah that's a tree i remember one of my one of my friends was
frustratedly saying you know i was talking to my mom and she just goes she goes to spend time
with these trees he's like it's just a bunch of trees
there's the fetish there's nothing in there it's just a tree so what
the problem with there's nothing in there is that if there's nothing in there there's nothing in me
too right what went away in my experience of the tree went away inside me there's no other place for
to go away to from right and so when we're somehow when we're trying to figure out what things are
that can be a process of a kind of death i think we'd like to avoid which is more like um lethe or
ignorance or a sort of oppressive absencing of the self like there's a positive absencing of the self
which becomes intimacy and there's a negative absence which is what slavery i don't i don't
understand um dissociation or something right like the the circuits just don't light up there's no
resonance between me and the tree so the lexicon can deaden our experience it's not its only feature
but it's a common feature
yeah the lexicon keeps the essence of evolution yeah
yes it it retards intimacy and it does that by the presentation of manipulability in the
representational layer of awareness it's like oh that's a tree now i know what it is like i can
ignore it right it the problem is it's um it's a convenient and important tool in a sense or feature
of awareness because humans are oriented by this
vigilance ambiguity prediction triangle that i that i've modeled right so if you don't know what something
is it increases vigilance it increases increases in ambiguity increase vigilance so to be lazy right
to be comfortable you have to reduce ambiguity less thereby reducing vigilance so you don't have to
make predictions does that make any sense yeah yeah so the lexicon once you know what it is you've
reduced the localized sense of ambiguity but also you threw away most of the possibilities of relation
yes exactly yeah the ambiguity and the relationship they go together so if you're trying to reduce
ambiguity what you're going to reduce is relational possibility space which means you're going to
reduce the interior reflection of that relational possibility space which means you're dead inside yeah
this is exactly what psychotherapy gets wrong yeah because inside every time you succeed by naming
every time you succeed another part of you dies right every time you succeed at replacing
like getting rid of that ambiguity you're throwing away degrees of liberty in your awareness
yes right right you're just getting rid of them because they're troublesome
yeah yeah that keeps bothering me right that ambiguity just bothers me
unfortunately for humans there's a worse feature of this you know avp thing which is that um
i mean there's there's two really bad features the first is that a dead world is a better one
right so what you really want is a world like the inside of the spaceship
nothing moves it's all clinically you know it's a lab it's a laboratory
but the other problem is that the aspects that that underlie the abp right the um interior the forces
so to speak that underlie avp the motivations and the
the purpose of imperatives and so on that underlie that they act on a cultural level and
and what someone will do in a state of hyper vigilance
often
is to get rid of the ambiguity they'll kill everything including themselves whatever they
just go into like destroy everything
and the reason they do that is that the preservation of ambiguity is a burden
and if you don't know how long it will last it's more of a burden
um and so you can dispose of that burden by creating a disaster right example simple example would
be guy gets a new cell phone works fine but he can't connect it to the internet he's been on the
phone with tech support for seven days he's freaked out he's pissed off he can't connect to the internet
he's walking he's got the phone in his pocket he's furious has been going on for days you can't
tell if it's ever going to end will he ever be able to connect to the uplink again or not
so in a fit of rage he just throws the phone in the lake
all right well that gets rid of the problem or you know stops on it destroy the destroy the source of
ambiguity is unfortunately a paradigm that you can see getting replayed over human history again and again
and one thing you should we should all be aware of and this is a little bit extinction audience but
the sudden increase in unpredictability in human thought culture and behavior and in the climate
and so forth this is dumping ambiguity into the human cognitium at an ever-increasing rate so
anyone who is watching the humans and i do would sense this and try to like raise a flag and go like
uh the one thing we need not to do is apocalypse right like pick another option i know it's ambiguous
right now but don't go to the destroy you know switch
and whole cultures do that right our culture is probably in the grip of a similar process at the moment
here in the states and perhaps has been for a long time but the present you know degree is uh troubling
to put it modestly yeah the avp thing this is the problem with ufos right it's it just introduces
irresolvable ambiguity now what are you going to do what's your next move
um well as an extinction artist you should learn how to subsist or linger in ambiguity
much in the same way that you embraced the void because yes that's the that's the path through you
have to find the path through this darkness yeah no you want to waste the ambiguity yeah i agree
you embrace the ambiguity responding with fear is not going to be helpful right um
and you know in our daily lives we're faced we this avp thing runs really deep in humans it might be
you know it's not the foundational insight but it's a very uncommon and important one
um just to clarify them again it's ambiguity excuse me vigilance and prediction
so obviously those three things are intimately linked increase in ambiguity naturally increases vigilance
um i heard i heard a sound at my door just now right what happens then what's next
right vigilance comes online in a big way and you immediately one immediately begins to think well
is it a good thing or a bad thing right that's the next thing
i think about how absurd that is because
the way we're trained to determine what a bad thing is is insufficient to cope with what's going on
on because it can't take time into account you know the other day i had a scheduled meeting that i was
really looking forward to and it turned out that it wasn't going to happen is that a bad thing the
meeting was really important to me anyway i hear a sound at the door vigilance kicks up
um before i respond a bunch of invisible processes happen in the under structure of awareness right
radical transformation of function mode potential liberty all these things radical sudden transformation
of them and so you know i think i'm darren or whatever and i have no idea if any of those thoughts are
reasonable but what i actually do is transform dramatically based on adp um but uh the existence of
women is basically a localization of what often appears to me as positive ambiguity
i am very attracted to that positive ambiguity that kind of ambiguity wow i would like some of that
right now please yes
an animal appearing is more ambiguous right because i recognize okay this is a being that operates outside
of representational cognition in theory i have no idea it's very difficult to have a model of its mind
or its priorities it's unpredictable we could be friends but it could also really me up
right i guess the same thing is true of a woman but
but um but it doesn't look that way right a raccoon the ambiguity space includes
in in my awareness of my thought a possibility of injury me getting like attacked violence and so
forth um but then you know a ufo is basically just pure ambiguity right humans like diamonds and
stone why don't they like diamonds and ambiguity because that's where it's like an ambiguity diamond
in the sky right it comes down it's like ambiguity and then it leaves
so yeah with increased human vigilance right that would that would up the entire
vigilant systems think about how much vigilance goes on as our cultures
right the cultures reproduce this phenomenon technologically right they just produce vigilance
objects what's that for it's to reduce ambiguity
right which kills relationship yes which ends up dying inside us
making us more vigilant because once you're you know mostly dead inside can you even trust what you
think exactly right you need someone else to do the thinking for you you got to offload that
shit you can't it's just pure ambiguity out there right and it's you know weirdly technology introduces a
mode of ambiguity that that is static and maybe that's what death is the the bad kind right the parts
of us that die inside inside in these processes you know enmeshed in these in these situations together
yeah the distinction between good and bad that you mentioned is a lot like a fetish
um whereas there's a fear response so but it's also an interest response
right there's like positive vigilance i think what do you think oh yeah yeah yeah so it's got
both either way yeah yeah right at first i was only thinking about it in negative terms because as a
troubleshooter that's my natural inclination right i'm like where's the problem right and so then i you
know i just realized oh ambiguity ramps up vigilance in me this is something that i'm running my
consciousness on this program at all times it's it's sort of like what a nervous system level feature
of my existence yeah right so it's not something that's usually under anything like conscious
control though awareness can leak into it and influence it but yeah if i hear a noise at my door
it's a probabilistic pragmatic situation that happens it does depend on my mood and stuff
but there shouldn't be noises at my door yeah it's like a cup inside your head right it's not a good
there's no way a noise at my door is not likely to be a good thing so it's probably a bad thing so
vigilance right i change modes i become frightened tense uh you know all these things happen physically
things happen in my body not just in my awareness
and you know it's obvious that our cultures are trying to offload the ambiguity of relationship
into devices you know the queen song i'm in love with my car
gotta feel for my automobile
it's weird so our fetishes like the computers and particularly the smartphones right they're like
the fossilized remains of what died inside us to produce them absolutely yeah it's the death of
thinking it's it's a dead yeah in space floating around yeah and what does it connect you to like it is
it's a replacement so the phone itself as a technology turns out to be a replacement for what we often
speak of as uplink right which obviously ufos represent the near physical localization of that
okay it's uplink so if you want to know what those are that's what they are
okay it's uplink to higher orders of at the very least like even if it's people from another planet
it's uplink you see the problem yeah there isn't any other thing for that to be right if you're
thinking like a citizen of the universe not like a human earth person there isn't anything other than
that that that could be and what our phones are are the active killing of that into a representation
of its function that links you not to the sky in origin but to a weird library of dead
representations that move and make noises yeah absolutely yeah the phone is like a prison that
insulates you from ambiguity so by presenting its fossil it's moving by presenting moving fossils of
it right it tries to replace ambiguity with novelty no yeah yeah yeah but the mode of novelty is wrong
it's a sin it's literally a sin yeah yeah exactly yeah it's not a sin as in oh that's sinful you bad boy
it's a sin as in um you're missing the mark you're yeah but we have to say very clearly
it's a sin as in killing living beauty and wonder and awe and participation and love
in to a dead inside fetish that is essentially vampiric it kills by being
it kills by being
it kills beings it kills minds it kills futures they die into those objects those media objects
on the internet on computers billions of images per second how many beings have to die
to take and store and transmit and back those up and modify them
right it's literally vampiric is the problem now look we live with these technologies i'm not trying to
create a religion or something i just think that as human beings it's very important to remind each
other and to characterize these situations intelligently to each other so that we can
better understand and do something else or at least um gain some degree of immunity to the vampiric
badness
it sounds crazy people you're talking on a machine right now what about that
go ahead let's have a little i'm happy to discuss that part of the problem
you know i can imagine um someone much more insightful maybe a guru or something
and she might say
you're concerned about your cell phone yeah okay but what about your shoes
why would you put something between your soul and the earth from which you come
maybe that's an ambiguity you don't want to get rid of
like there are really simple features of technology that have also very devastating effects
i'm a big fan of shoes don't get me wrong i i like it i like good shoes feet are delicate
but that that barrier between the living world and our skin by mediating it with a protective substance
that what does it do it reduces the ambiguity that you will experience with your feet right it's the
same principle
yeah well actually when i when i use technology i feel a tremendous amount of ambiguity
but i approach it maybe in a more self-conscious way like using technology actively makes me afraid
so if you learn to use technology like that it can be a vehicle
for enlightenment because you're turning up the heat within you're basically um
you're preparing yourself to um
go you psychotic
you know so even yeah so
right did you say generating heat on the outside you can generate heat within
and that's the key i think to what you're saying
because that's that's ambiguity
so you're kind of well okay yes so if you're trapped in this prison yeah that's what i'm saying
i mean we're all trapped here on this platform right yeah well um there's different ways of viewing
that yes there's a trap there are systems of traps and yes we are in them but there's different roles
right available to us within the trap um i didn't quite understand what you meant by this heat
say more please i want to i want to make sure i i got you the answer to this situation
in my view probably doesn't involve you know taking your shoes off or going outside necessarily
um so i'm not trying to run away from the ambiguity if that makes any sense for the same reason that
you know i wouldn't want to run away from the uh the void as we discussed earlier so this void here
this platform this prison as i called it this um dearth of meaning this dead structure
generates ambiguity if you generates ambiguity if you approach it from a certain standpoint of yes
consciousness or metacognition right of course yes and i think that's the correct path like the
path is actually through the prison it isn't to take your shoes off or something or you know
wear sandals i don't know what i mean sure that's what i was saying so i think the metaphor is
important just to show i was just trying to show like the ambiguity reduction right of that we build
our technologies around this issue yeah i get what you're saying we criticize you for saying what you
said i'm saying is uh it's probably missing the mark like they're sinning they're naive so they're
sinning because they don't know right they're they're making a value judgment without having sinned
but you can't you can't be a saint without sinning so you have to pass through the prison yeah and you
does that make any sense
there's also but there's positive ambiguity in technology as well right like the experience
of driving a sports car i want a piece of that you know there's lots of features of tech i've been a
technologist you know my entire life my adult life and since computers were invented so it is ironic
because you know for example i have the synthesizers and that i play with and stuff right and yes we are
using the tech to to do this to make a ufo in our minds so it's possible for humans to use technology
together intelligently and if we were even modestly playful oh my god can you imagine if
we had the the affordances that a smartphone actually creates in a situation where we were creatively
interacting with our humanity together through it like we could pull capers we should pull capers
you know like the adventure space that it opens up within the prison yes right yes affordances
actually open up an adventure space inside the prison by existing that see that's what you that's what
needs to happen right right from within that's what used to happen that's what you that's what people
used to do and something has captured the character of the adventure space so that it's dead mostly
it's just like right so we're living in a tomb and we have to resurrect from within the tomb of this
body or this dead structure so we can do that together right now that's what we're doing yeah i'd like
to think that's part of what we're doing i mean weirdly it turns out that by talking about it
you're actually doing it there are things you can talk about that become the inaction of what is being
spoken and i think this might have been what was meant by magic originally although magic isn't merely
a verbal thing but does this make any sense there's certain kind there are certain topics you can
entertain that merely by entertaining them you are doing what they are talking about
oh yeah that's that's the ideal and these aren't merely meta topics they have some other strange
form or you know register they're not me it's not merely meta topics although most of them are um
uh see this is set theory most of them are meta topics but i'm saying they have like a they
exist at another register actually that is an aspect of lucidity in waking experience
we're trying to in to bring lucidity into
our awareness concern and discussion so in a sense we're invoking lucidity
and you can see even over the thread of our talk if you look at the manifold of the topics in our
you know expression of them there's a shape there's a kind of a transcendental shape to them
where features of the previous talk refold and are expressed like little ufos in our minds
you know some time ago uh george you you we never really got to the question but you asked me what
i thought of jack sarfadi do you recall oh yeah yeah yeah we never really got into that discussion it's
you know at least slightly related through the ufo angle um i know some strange i don't know how to
say this let's see someone i know recently had some interactions with him a mystic and um
they were peculiar and interesting but i'll leave them mostly out of the conversation
uh you know i don't know a huge amount about sarfadi i've probably listened to maybe four or five
hours of him speaking i'm not impressed with him as a human being um which is a kind way you know to say
like uh he exhibits qualities that i don't find particularly appealing with great regularity
um i don't know i don't really know what to make of him his stories are certainly interesting to listen
to and they you know they create a kind of a perspective you know a perspective lens on
his life and history and the ufo thing and physics
um but i think that him and his ilk what they're primarily concerned about
probably is getting out of here right now they want like a technical way to get the out of here
i suspect so they are machine they are machine people right they want machines they want a time
machine right they want they want a spaceship um yeah
so they're kind of missing the mark there say again are they kind of missing the mark there as
well are they yeah i think that would be putting it in my house i mean um
you've got a guy sitting on a mountain of gold screaming because he can't find his penny
he thinks you need a machine to save something that probably doesn't even exist which is his personal
self or something right um yeah these are people who want immortality like they literally want to make
themselves immortal which should be obvious would be the worst kind of a hell
right it's like yeah really don't let any death in there
but um yeah he's an interesting cat what brought him to mind for you
he came up in a few talks that i happened to listen to recently i never really trusted him
he always seemed like a charlatan to me
but he was apparently involved with project stargate or something like that
which i thought was interesting uh the way that he markets himself i find extremely off-putting
um i was trying not to say yeah about himself and about his yeah yeah and whatever um no his
self-importance is showing in a big way but um immediately makes me it's a red flag for me but yeah
me too i was trying to be uh observant to a principle that i find salient you know we think
sometimes about virtues and i do and i honor my understanding of them but yeah i just i become
and you know sometimes i fall down and don't get this right but i become less inclined to speak badly
of others i'm just more cautious about it especially if i'm recording something because if i had said
what darren would say about jacks are fine it would have been grim you gotta stay vigilant yeah exactly
yeah no i i everything you said resonates with me i don't know whether i trust him or not
or in what ways i trust him um
um he loves to be the center of attention though to such a degree that inclines me to take what he
says with big grains of salt so to speak yes but yeah he's been involved in strange things and i'm sure
he still is but i have inside information from very recent history about what he's up to accidentally
and i know that it's like get off planet
interesting do you want to discuss that here would you like to reserve that for
um well you know there's a there's a cadre of people in the physics community obviously
who are there for a very specific reason which is to survive death
yeah right they're really scared of dying and they're it's also fairly obvious to them right
anybody who's got half a brain is looking at the humans and going like oh yeah we've got about 10
seconds left uh-huh you know i don't know what clock you're using but if you're just reading the
ambient ambiguity and its character at present it looks like apocalypse on the horizon i think that's not
the only way to see it you can embrace the um you know the ambiguity to play with him and so forth
um so i'm not you know i'm not trying to do anything with it but in any case there's lots of people who
people like elon musk um people like eric weinstein uh they want off planet they think like okay this
place is over with our only shot is to get somewhere else
um and i'm sure eric thinks of it as as many probably do is the diaspora of the humans right
from from the earth and that might be a natural phase of the development of an animal like ours
were we not so peculiarly uh disoriented in nature
like we don't have to destroy the earth to need to get off of it or to go other places if that's
part of our you know potential as organism right it's not even clear that's part of our potential i
just want to be really clear about something people presume like space travel is a thing
that's in the future of humanity it could be a thing that is absolutely not in the future of humanity
we could discover as i think is probably very likely that our minds and bodies only work
work properly or can only function in a specific relation to the distance of the sun
and outside of that just i mean that's it's like fish trying to get desperately trying to get out of
the water yeah yeah you know so humans just think like yeah i'm going to mars you might not be able
to get halfway there and live you have no idea well you're what do minds work outside the narrow band
of relation to the sun that they exist in it's not clear
yeah i mean the earth isn't just something that you're standing on and that you can just leave or
something i mean that you are the earth itself i mean you're you you know so the idea that you're
going to transplant yourself to some other world is just kind of ludicrous i mean i love the hand
metaphor because imagine my pinky just decides to go off on its own you know it's basically destroyed
the rest of the hand so now it's going to go do something else really yeah yeah i can't wait to see
what happens the moment you cut that link that's going to be really interesting you think you're just
going to go off like a spaceship away from the hand that you are a finger on
um you know it's a uh it's a displacement the desire for travel in space is a displacement
of the natural innate desire and faculty to travel in being as you right as
your nature and that is open to every human being all the time we just don't do it because
well it seems impossible and we don't practice the faculties that would enable it i think
yeah of course
um so yeah there's a group of physicists and basically what they want they're not too
sure they can get a spaceship but if there's one of those great what they really want is a time
machine
that will save them to save them from you know the earth dying the humans destroying the world
or making it so miserable that you just want to be anywhere else
right yeah it's it's a personal preservation mission
i want to preserve me and my progeny and maybe some close friends
right in a way it's the ultimate elitism
does that make sense
yeah yeah i am the thing that matters about the humans right i am so valuable that i should be
preserved at all costs
yeah yeah i'll bet you if you went just to one of one of some of these people and you said
all right i'll give you a time machine and you can bring 10 people but if you use it the earth will
be destroyed are you going some of them would say yes
another thing i think ufos might be this only recently occurred to me or at least some times are
is um feedback in time in from the future so to speak but also from the past
from the damage to biorelational temporality that machines are doing on earth right now
now so those things structure temporality in a way that organisms never do
or they tear at they tear that structure apart and produce it what do they produce
um they produce repetition
they produce exact explicit repetition which is something nature has never done i don't think
although you can say well machines are in nature so they're natural too yes yes that's not what i mean
um yeah so ufos could be evidence of time damage
um the localization of time damage caused by human technological activity
i mean all the phenomenon we think of they are expressions of temporality so think about
for a moment with me unfortunately think about the detonation of a nuclear weapon on the surface
of the earth what that does to the biorelational temporal manifold right the the manifold created by
all the interactions of all the organisms that are just suddenly going to be converted into energy
and so one thing you can think of it as it has at least two features the first is
it produces something like god it's like you're replaying
the birth and the death of the universe and the span between them as the detonation of the weapon
but one of the things that happens is that all the different temporalities there are burned up
it just become this accelerated
force right and so that rips a hole you know 50 miles long or whatever and many more miles long in
other ways it up time in like 500 ways
and so humans think that the aliens are interested in us because we can blow things up right we can
make nuclear weapons i think that if the aliens have that kind of interest what they're actually
interested in is that we're damaging time in a way that you should never do anywhere right yeah
yeah like that would send a signal in time that anything reading time would be like what the
are they doing you know it was as if we discovered something prematurely
when you talk about a damage or some kind of damage in time
um it seems to me that something happened too quickly
so yeah human cognition might be destined for
the manipulation of matter at some level but the atomic bomb sort of represents this uh like yeah
luciferic premature evolution so yeah like humanity might actually fork so there might be a fork in
human evolution or human yeah destiny and someone like jack sarfati might represent one branch
which is probably the false branch in my view this kind of false direction right um so his his
lineage is in the same lineage as the atomic bomb that's what he's going he's going down that path
yeah i mean it's surprising that thinkers like weinstein who argue for things like um
he wants to return to atmospheric testing of nuclear weapons to remind humans how dangerous they are
is a very crude rendering of his concern and i'm like what are you thinking about dude
um how could you god i mean there's so many features that are fascinating of the problem but you can see
here what i was talking about earlier which is ambiguity produces vigilance so under states of hyper
vigilance you just go to apocalypse mode and that actually is a localized apocalypse it's not
it's not a weapon we use it as a weapon but i mean it's a transcendental phenomenon
and it is not what the sun is doing right people say like well it's just like the sun no it's not like
what the sun is doing and also that should never happen on a biologically rich world ever though there
is a similar phenomenon right the world gets hit by a asteroid or a large rocky body possibly water body
i've sometimes sometimes conjectured that the human fascination with projectiles
is an expression of the earth desiring to avoid significant impacts in the future
because for the earth the organisms are like organs an asteroid strike would resemble a stroke
right and she's had them before she knows they exist right she's had them before so she might develop an
organ that was capable of intervening right that's negative ambiguity in the big form
interesting yeah yeah i can see i can see something now yeah yeah you see over time right she's doing
something the organisms aren't just toys right they're expressions of intent too they are time and light
and all the things that we've discussed it's it is so as well i think at least in our in our ufo world
they are but yeah they are expressions of the intent of the earth as a transcendental being of the sun
as a transcendental being of time space itself it does clearly it intends things or we could not
right we have intentions we don't those don't just arise from a vacuum or just because we're human
those arise as natural expressions of the character and nature of being
so the animals must also be like words
but the universe is speaking or or um embodiments of how it wants to be right right well okay so in that
case i can see how ecstasy can move in the opposite direction so the natural field yeah well the natural
course of the human mode of being i think is to ultimately exteriorize cognition but what the
innovation that we just discussed with the atomic bomb and the time machine indicate is the reverse
process so some human beings will move more deeply into time will move more deeply into matter so the
atomic bomb represents a fork in human evolution in the sense that some human beings will move into
matter others will move outside so the so the natural tendency is i think to move outside but yeah we're
we're not all gonna make it dude that's well it depends on what we mean right you know the humans are
very concerned with certain fingertips of a hand and i am surely very concerned with those um but the hand
still is you know so to speak right there's whatever we are expressions of is alive in us
yes i think probably throughout history when the humans started doing really dangerous things ufos
showed up more you know in general
we have these movies like um close encounters and stuff which are fascinating i think that's a
it's a trippy film even if i may have some critiques of it as well um
um and and you know the humans have sort of long been thinking about how do we send signals to the
sky well hey that might be a really stupid idea i mean in a dark forest you don't just start calling
out hey i'm over here and i'm really dumb like which is probably the approximate equivalent of human
messages to space you know yeah well no i think the ufo is actually catalyzing the evolutionary process
as opposed to moving in and responding to human action we agree about that yeah so this fork
is a function of the ufo's presence so some human being will take the ufo's presence and try to build a
time machine out of it right right so that's the sense in which it's it's causing this cleft or this
tendency and other humans will um examine the phenomena and realize oh what if we're transcendent yeah
right right and so they have no desire to machinify it naturally they're not trying to yeah they're not
trying to build a box yeah i mean that is the appearance of the outside
it's really weird it's more than real is the problem
it's more than real in the perspectives that we're entertaining here
so it redefines what reality is and it's really funny because we've been playing with this holo topic
the whole time and the whole topic is
and so what are ufos well they are that what is evolution it is that
what is our conversation it is that what is making language together or even by ourselves it is that
what is our conversation it is that what is making language together or even by ourselves it is that
what is making language together or even by ourselves it is that what is making language together or even by ourselves
toy maker's mind never not produced a holo topic
and i've never encountered thought like that
when it expressed something in my mind by shaping my awareness not by telling me things and sometimes
by showing me the images of histories and so forth
first of all i was absolutely gobsmacked any in every specific in every moment of the contact
i was just like wait this what it was the fun that just became the fundamental ground of being
was astonishing enthusiastic amazement um but i would try to hold the figure in my awareness long
enough to relate it to some field of human knowledge right science music philosophy his you know
clinical perspectives all kind whatever branch you want to pick
and what i would invariably immediately discover which made it very hard to hold in memory was it
didn't have a category
and so it became whatever category you used as a lens to look at it through in your thought
so if you thought of it historically it became historical if you thought of it in terms of physics it became
relationships between forces if you thought of it in terms of language it became the evolutionary
span over which humans developed it if you you know it
it was a form of knowledge that was unlike anything it was transcendental
and to experience something like that directly in my mind i never imagined having even a moment of such
an experience and i'm quite imaginative it obliterated the possibility of imagining likenesses of it
i hope it's not tedious
what i'm trying to say is there are these things that are holotopical
people and we can play with them together in language like toys
you know terence mckenna was really fascinated by the
animated sort of paramechanical dances of the dmt elves and so forth
that might be what our minds are
he thinks that's something separate our minds might be that that might be the mind seeing itself
we can forge forms of even conceptual awareness
that are vastly beyond what we're used to even if we could do no other thing even if we had no other
liberties that by itself is astonishingly you know it's a it's a whole
you know i remember the beginning of star trek right space the final frontier no it's not space
it's the thing you're perceiving with that's the frontier
yeah precisely we can make vehicles with it and travel in them together
and it changes you know the potential for our experience of being human dramatically
where did you come across sarfadi you mentioned some podcasts
i came across him in a video by bob dobbs which is quite old and i also found him
on another youtube channel um
many years ago
yeah um have you ever listened to him speak tell the stories oh yeah that's how i realized that i
wasn't really a big fan um did you tell the story of like the phone calls when he was a kid and stuff
like that i think i don't know i don't think so yeah i found that interesting
it's an expansion of um
you know i have one story that resembles this but it's an expansion of
i think uh strange men from the government became interested in my mind when i was a child that
that narrative oh okay
but i think if i remember supposed to impress me or something
am i supposed to be interested in that like that's yeah that's the insinuation right like
okay could you just could you just remark a little more deadpanly on that please right now
because i'm just enjoying that
but when he does that fairly often i've noticed yeah i know he'll insinuate that
someone was interested in me it's like okay that's great what does that prove like am i supposed
to find that is that supposed to validate you or yeah this is the content yeah this is something i
have concerns about when i talk about toy maker because um it's i'm in danger of something similar
even by bringing up the topic does that make sense oh yeah right and i recognize that i'm aware of it
and mostly i try to avoid it people like why haven't you written a book i'm like uh yeah it's not
yeah it's a red flag for me um i know you know i know a few very it's okay so i just want to be clear
about something the government does farm the population and they definitely approach young people
who can demonstrate astonishing skillfulness particularly in math or engineering or something
right there's no doubt about that actually is going on all the time i don't know if it's still common
today or you know in what ways it's practiced today i don't have any recent um subjects to talk to
about that but it happened when i was little and we saw some of it happening even in my elementary school
which is you know pretty early on right you're talking about kids in kindergarten to sixth grade or
whatever um so that does happen uh how interesting it is sort of i don't know it depends i have another
friend who was approached by um is it rockwell
and there were people from the government involved in in the process when he was a kid he was a
mathematician and they you know they were giving him problems to solve according to him they were
giving him problems to solve that they were using and producing guided missile systems problems they
couldn't you know they had trouble resolving when he was like a teenager and stuff and they would pay him
a little bit of money and they didn't tell him what they were using it for so yeah this kind of thing
certainly happens why wouldn't it you know if you're an aerospace company you make you make what weapons
you definitely want to grab any kind of any kind of advantage
whether you know what happened with sarfati i don't know i wonder if i was confusing a story
you know i might have been confusing his story with whitley strebers yeah i might have i might have
gotten some threads of those two stories confused okay yeah now that i'm thinking about it because i
recently watched streber on danny jones podcast and there were parts of it that were quite interesting
yeah but yeah that's where it's from that i did get those two things confused though i think jack did
get some um strange phone calls in his childhood as well i don't remember i think it probably stems from
this deeper sense of parental neglect or something like mommy cares about me because i have an interesting
factoid or you know uh mommy really showed interest in what i had to say and you know the this type of
trigger showed up and they were really interested in what i was saying and isn't that interesting like
like um it's like it sort of presumes that these people know anything and that their their attention
means something and you know it's like it's somehow correlated with intelligence or i don't really see any
evidence for that not only that why why would it be interesting to be aggrandized
among people that you apparently don't even respect yeah that's why it's a red flag i mean yeah
no it's very confusing what what is the benefit you're generating for yourself here
like i'd be ashamed of that i wouldn't use that as a selling point right yeah
yeah i mean who's he trying to win over it's not clear um and it's a really weird way to go about it
if i just walk into the rooms and look around and go like i'm really good
that's your first wave yeah in the relationship or like you're having sex and you're like i'm really
good at this yeah yeah right yeah tell a woman you're a great kisser and see what happens next
yeah it totally destroys the possibility for greatness i mean it's just kind of undermined
self-undermining and again it's the same suicidal tendency that extends into building a time machine
into this quest for immortality it's the same suicidal impulse it just kills the vibe man
like i mean i understand the fear of death and wanting to live forever and stuff i want to die
but it gets pretty weird when it becomes super hyper like extremely focused
in the strange way that the quest for personal immortality does
right right but it conceals a suicidal impulse or ideation yeah it's weird yeah it's like severance
or amputation like you were saying yeah totally it's um it's just like killing the uplink into the
smartphone right yeah there are there are of course people who want to have their what they think of as
their consciousness uploaded into a computer so that it can live forever again hell you know what you want
yeah you know i always wonder about motivation when i see someone in need of validation like
maybe that's just ingrained in me for some reason i just i wonder why why do you need me to do something
like that for you what does that do for you um you know about jack sarfati or whoever else i might
encounter like that um but i could be you know mistaken just my strong sense that there's something
awry with it like i wouldn't trust someone who speaks because they need me to validate them it's not
really clear what we're not really clear what we're doing there you know sure i mean there there are
at least small features of that in our ordinary conversation they just don't become hyperbolic
right right oh of course
yeah
yeah
yeah it's like the ego gets in the way it's killing something it's preventing something from happening
it's vigilant
right yes
well perhaps this is a good point for us to uh to wrap up what are your thoughts uh yeah i think
we're over four hours now oh my goodness okay so yeah i'll stop the recording here and
um
.
.
