Hello everybody. Welcome. It's nice to have some time together again, to learn and explore, to wonder, to be curious.
For many years I was close with Eric Navarro, a young Hispanic man who lived in Pacoima.
In Southern California, he was one of my dearest friends, a brilliantly heartful human being, spirit being, heart being.
He played the guitar and was an extremely skillful graphic artist and also a tattooist.
So his art, some of his art is currently walking around on human bodies.
He also liked to modify machines and he had a very rich and beautiful sense of aesthetics.
In the last few years of his life, he became fascinated by photography and produced some amazing photographs.
He had a particularly unique scooter. It was a Yamaha, I think.
And he went by the name Zenith Orbiting.
We met on Facebook and became very close.
In August of last year, someone ran a red light and killed him while he was on his way home from his relatively new job,
which I think was at Old Navy in Hollywood.
Right now I'm wearing one of his shirts that his mother was kind enough to send me.
It's comfort.
Eric was unusually sensitive, uncommonly sensitive, and extremely heartful.
He struggled in his final years to understand why the humans with whom he commonly related
would try to recruit him into thoughts, games, agreements, or relationships that were not fundamentally heartful,
but were confused in their motivation and form.
We spent many happy hours in heartful and playful conversation.
He had a wonderful sense of humor.
And he dreamed like the old South American shamans.
His dreaming life was among the most profound of those I've encountered.
I miss him.
Some time ago, he introduced me to a television show,
which has since become very popular, called Severance.
And I was particularly fascinated by the theme, the theme music in the beginning,
which we both made some attempts at learning.
Though back then I didn't yet have a keyboard.
I do now.
And one evening as I was watching season one, I noticed that one of the screens in the movie,
there is a very strange occupation that is central to this show called Macrodata Refinement.
It's not clear that anything is actually being done, but it seems metaphysically oriented.
In any case, the screens have names.
And apparently the goal of the refiners is to complete the segregation of numbers into little boxes at the bottom of their screens using a trackball keyboard.
And I noticed that one of the screens was called, rather surprisingly, Pacoima.
And I sent him in text an image of that screen and we both had a laugh about that.
One of the ideas that I often explore is a perspective on semantics and linguistics that orients itself around root concepts,
which I call holophores.
And comedy often plays with these.
Science plays with these.
Time and light, what are they?
These are holophoric questions.
Space, matter, energy, what are these?
Because you see, whatever you think energy is transforms everything else you can think.
And to the degree you get that wrong, you're trapped.
And to the degree that you can somehow even slightly correct your existing ontology, you correct all other things.
So it has a kind of a universal scope of inheritance in our lexicons and category trees and so forth.
And one of the reasons severance is powerful is because I don't, I don't think, I'm quite sure that the developer of the story,
whose name escapes me at the moment, though I looked it up the other day.
I'm nearly positive he has no idea about what a holophore is.
But artists often stumble on them and play with them, right?
In a sense, it's impossible not to play with holophores, because we play with light and sound, even if we are simply speaking as I am now.
So holophores are always involved in what we do.
But severance is unique in that it has highlighted a very specific holophore with broad applicability to our human existence.
The central feature of the story, this isn't a spoiler, don't worry, is that a company called Lumen contracts with people to undergo an operation
in which a chip in which a chip is implanted in their brain so that when they enter the office, the elevator in the office,
the chip switches their consciousness to, in terms of memory, so that in the office you will remember everything that happens in the office,
outside of the office you will remember none of it, you'll have no idea once you go down in the elevator what happened that day,
and essentially the people in the building have no memory of, for example, sleeping because that's something that happens outside.
The people in the office have no memory of the sky or any of the things that are common to we who live in the world.
So the office worker is born on the day they awaken inside the Lumen complex.
That's their birthday.
And the words innie and outie are used to refer respectively to the life of the person inside Lumen and the life of the person outside Lumen.
Neither of which have any memories of one another.
That's a very powerful metaphor.
In fact, it's not merely a metaphor, it's a holophore.
Because as humans, the first basic and the obvious correlation is between our dreaming self and our waking self.
And I've been working on an essay about this for a few weeks now.
I noticed this morning that someone had published one.
Primarily about this feature, the dreaming aspect.
However, in the case of the dreaming mind, the innie is the waking person.
Subjected to all kinds of bizarre, inexplicable nonsense.
That, given a choice, the dreaming mind would never agree to participate in.
And would almost certainly despise the fundamental character of.
So, the thing we think of as ourselves is our waking self.
And that's the thing we have a continuous memory of.
Resembling the outie in severance, but the innie in terms of subjugation.
To our jobs, money, banks, governments, law, war, disease, peril, physical peril.
Emotional agony and suppression, devastation.
That we experience while awake.
Now, dreaming is not without its trials either.
But those trials are very commonly born from waking world experiences and deprivations.
So, there's a bipolar correlation here.
For many of us, not all of us, the waking world is filled with bizarre, inexplicable injustices.
Tribulations, challenges, devastations, loss, fear, pain.
But it's also filled with beauty, love, heroism, learning, growth, so forth.
You see, our skills are not required in the dreaming aspect.
In fact, the capacity for our skillfulness almost certainly arises from our capacity to dream.
Without which, we would not be able to restructure memory.
And any of us who've carefully acquired a skill as a musician or mathematician, we know the power of sleep and dreaming to ferment and foment developmental leaps.
Which would otherwise be probably impossible.
Also, our bodies can survive in a state of sleep.
Perhaps indefinitely until we age out.
But we cannot survive without dreaming.
In a very short period of a number of days, say 21 of them, the body loses the capacity to enact homeostatic adjustments.
We can no longer control body temperature and so forth.
Though we haven't tested this in humans.
We've tormented mice this way.
We being human scientists.
And if the mice are allowed to sleep, they still die if they're not allowed to dream.
So, one of these aspects is more primordial to being an animal than the other.
And it isn't waking.
Who are you?
Well, the wise answer is, it is unknown to me.
But the structured, habitual, historical, fictive self, fictional self, comprised of our memories and episodic experiences and so forth, is not us.
Nor are we simply our dreaming self.
Though our dreaming self has many features that our waking selves are deprived of when we walk in the light of day and do our jobs and buy the groceries and wash the laundry and so forth.
The dreaming self knows what it means to, well, the dreaming self is engaged in task oriented situations often.
But they are meta to our physical task orientation.
Dramatically meta.
Sygenically meta.
Our dreaming self is capable of generating worlds and minds and situations.
Our waking self goes to sleep relationally.
The dreaming self wakes to relation.
The waking self tends to sleep to it.
That's why I would say that the outies in severance more resemble our dreaming selves in some ways and our waking selves in others.
Our waking self has continuous memory, our dreaming self does not usually.
Though anything we might say about the dreaming self in the waking state is like a man talking about a woman.
It's like a man talking about a woman's experiences or her body or something.
Something he has no real experience of except relationally.
And perhaps intellectually.
Cognitively.
Conceptually.
Both of our states are a mixture of each other.
Artists and others work to bring some aspects of the dreaming intelligences into the waking world situation.
Art.
Art.
Can be seen.
As a kind of.
Waking.
Dreaming.
And this is primarily what the essay I saw today explores.
The relationship between.
Innies and outies vis-a-vis our dreaming selves and our waking selves.
But the metaphors and the holophore of severance goes vastly, vastly deeper than that.
Because we undergo as human beings a sequence of severances and forgettings.
Very few humans that I've ever come across know anything about, have any memory of, their origin.
There seems to be some kind of strange prohibition or perhaps even in some ontologies a mechanism, a machine,
that for most of us causes us to forget everything before our childhood.
And few of us would imagine that that's most of what there is to remember.
But I know this to be so from my own direct experience of remembering my origins with some help.
To live and I think recapitulate the entire history of the development of life not merely on earth but in the universe.
And perhaps the life of the universe itself.
In the phase from conception throughout our embryogenesis and then our birth.
At which point we undergo the first severe physical severance.
which is the cutting of the umbilical cord.
Most of us were born in hospitals which closely resemble a lumen like institution.
I'm filled with experts who are task oriented.
We must imagine that infants that remain connected to the mother through the umbilicus for a longer period.
We must experience originary formative developmental benefits that are staggering and are disposed of by surgical hospital births.
So we are severed from the memory of our origins.
And we are severed from the memory of the womb.
And then we become infants.
The larval phase of our humanity.
Highly dependent.
And incapable of surviving without care.
But we undergo further arrays of severing.
As we are introduced to language.
And the naturally imaginative, playful, and dreamlike awareness of our childhood disappears in phases over developmental time.
Language severs us, most of us, from a vast library of empathies, sympathies, relational intelligences.
And replaces them with tokens.
Signs.
Signs.
Signs.
That point at things which lose their fascination to us as we become familiar with them.
The English trope, familiarity breeds contempt, is nowhere more trenchant than in our conceptual experience of the world, whereby knowing what something is, or who someone is, dismisses, inhibits, prohibits, and circumscribes our capacity.
To relate and to participate with not merely the world outside us, but the world inside us, the worlds inside us, the universes inside us.
Because the knowledge that renders phenomena, situations, and beings into conceptual objects severs us from intimacy.
Any of us who've experienced romantic relationships are aware of the peculiar way in which familiarity eclipses our enchantment and intimacies.
In many ways that don't make a lot of sense.
Getting a new manager and Christy's life, you know, kind of walk by.
Hi, how are you?
Not too bad, nice to see you.
Have you been to the other side, Light Lake?
To the gardens?
To the gardens?
Yeah, on the other side, the Horticulture Gardens.
I'm not sure yet what you mean.
Oh, just on the other side.
Of the lake?
Yeah.
I don't know where the horticulture is.
Oh, yeah.
Why do you ask?
Because you go there, don't you?
Do you mean the botanical gardens?
Yeah.
Oh, yes, yes, I do.
Because I was wondering, I hadn't been there for a month or so, and I went back and the duck isn't there anymore, the Muscovy.
Oh.
And I was wondering if you might have noticed.
Hmm.
You know, the Muscovy ducks do move about.
Yeah?
Yeah, they do.
And they move about seasonally.
Really?
Mm-hmm.
I was here for about a year.
Right.
But then I thought she belonged to somebody.
Oh.
Oh, I see.
And then just all of a sudden, they were doing more work on the other side, and she disappeared.
And a month later, one of the ladies found her over there in the pond.
Ah.
And she's been there for months.
Hmm.
And then all of a sudden, right after the really cold weather, as soon as I went back, when the time changed over and you could go before it was 4 o'clock.
Right.
So I missed a month or so.
Mm-hmm.
And now I go back and I've been in there 4 or 5 times, but yeah, the same duck's not there.
And I'm wondering where it could possibly be, or did something happen?
You know, here in the city, the wild animals, they live much longer than they would in the wild.
But when they become elderly, you know, the weather and the coyotes and such, right, become a threat.
There used to be an elderly goose couple that lived here and they hung out right over there, and I was familiar with them.
Mm-hmm.
And I remember the day when the female did not come back.
Yeah.
And shortly thereafter, the male passed away as well.
Oh.
Yeah.
Well, I was very close with them.
Yeah, I've heard stories about that.
Because a lot of the people that I talked to have been coming here for like 20 years.
Right, yeah.
And they know all the ducks.
Yeah.
And the series, the over...
And the Muscovies are very, obviously, they're strikingly different.
Yeah.
Right, yeah.
There used to be black ones.
Mm-hmm.
Yeah.
Yeah, there was three of them that used to mostly hang out together.
Oh!
Right.
Yes, yes, of course, I do.
Yeah, I know what you're talking about.
Okay.
Do you mean the white bird?
Well, now, it's the white one that's missing.
Right.
And, but I, because I never saw the black ones.
Mm-hmm.
That's before my time of just, you know, noticing this stuff.
Yeah, see, the thing, okay, if she moved, if she moved to that pond, it's almost certain
that she was doing that because it's safer there.
Yeah.
And less, there's less threat.
Um, but that pond also is more subject to coyotes.
Oh.
Right?
Here, there's islands and such.
Yeah.
But the elderly animals have trouble getting to them and so forth.
Yeah, yeah.
So, she may have, you know, she may have succumbed, either succumbed to the weather, which is,
or just age, or possibly, you know, coyotes at night there.
Well, that was my concern more than anything, but the coyotes have been coming out just recently
here around five o'clock.
Mm-hmm.
And they walk around the edge and there's a two that have been hanging out on the island.
Mm-hmm.
On the island?
Oh, you mean in there.
Oh, there's often, um, yeah, there's often coyote dens on the island.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I mean, I love the coyotes too, right?
They're all living beings, you know.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I know they shot three of them last year.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Because a little girl got bit.
Did she really?
Yeah.
It fell into the den.
It was up on a tree.
The little girl was up on a tree and it fell.
Right.
And a coyote came after her and bit her.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I didn't know about that.
I do know that they shoot, they shoot them sometimes.
Yeah.
Well, they did out by the marina.
There was one that had carried dogs away.
Mm-hmm.
Yeah.
But yeah, now, you know, I was just concerned about that one because I had seen that one
since it first came here.
I understand.
I remember her.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
You know, some green seed and stuff.
Yeah.
Beautiful.
Yeah.
And so other people started doing that, but they're away now because they go away for
six months of the year.
Sure.
Sure.
Yeah.
So like one of the ladies I know, she knows the saga of those Muscovies, the black ones.
She remembers the day, you know, this thing happened.
Yeah.
Yeah.
She should be back any time now.
Ah.
Yeah.
And what is your name?
I'm Carla.
Carla, I'm Darren.
Oh, hi Darren.
Nice to meet you.
I've seen you here many times.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
One man told me that the Park Service moves the ducks sometimes.
That they will take them from one place to the other.
But with this particular one, I tried to pet her once and that was not possible.
Mm-hmm.
She would not allow that.
Yeah.
You know, so I realized she's not going to be easy for anyone to catch.
Right.
Because she knows me.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Right.
Yeah.
But I can only get, you know, so close to her.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So I just, I, you know, I will keep wondering.
I've thought of looking at other lakes and, you know, maybe she'll turn up somewhere.
Mm-hmm.
I don't know.
But Laren Park, there was something on the news.
You know, there's a man who rides a bicycle.
He's a tall guy.
He's always got, you know, some binocs with him.
He doesn't remember people very well, but he knows every bird around here.
Oh, really?
If you see him around, you might ask him.
Okay.
He also goes in the botanical gardens.
Okay.
And I'm sure that there's some resource online where the local birders talk.
Maybe.
And, you know, you could possibly inquire there.
Those are just some thoughts I have.
I know there is one, there's a real estate guy that puts postings or photos.
Well, one of the ladies that knows these birds doesn't know what he's talking about
because he said some, some, like, white duck, because there was the white duck, the Peking.
It was here, then it moved to Spreckles, and then it came back here, then went back to Spreckles,
and then people got really concerned, and people were putting in money to do things to save it.
And finally, somebody came and took it to some refuge or something.
Oh, wow.
But a lot of those same people take interest in all of these birds, too.
You know, you could also inquire directly of the Parks and Rec folks, right, and ask them.
Yeah, I didn't before because, from what I'd heard, it didn't belong to someone.
Because once we called, because there were two little ducklings, somebody dropped off,
and we were so worried they'd get eaten by coyotes, and so we dropped them in the lake.
And then they were following people and following dogs, and it was a hot, sunny day.
And we got a box, everybody got to 12 people, you know, this effort to save these two ducks.
And we called animal care and control, everything they said to do.
And animal care and control, we had to meet them Sunday, they're about to close.
And then they, I called the next day, and they said they euthanized them.
Mm-hmm.
Yeah.
Because they were flu.
So we can't trust them.
No, no, I agree very much.
So that's why.
I have never made any calls about any animals.
Mm-hmm.
Oh, no, I don't want them to know something's out there.
Right, right, I see.
Well, aren't you a beautiful and heartful person?
I love that about you, Carla.
Well, thank you.
I'm very similar, I'm very similar to you in that way.
Yeah, I worry about all these animals.
Yeah, me too.
Yeah, so, yeah, I hope that that one turns out.
Anyway, this woman, talking about the white duck, that there's this real estate guy, and
he posts photos, and he said those ducks were someplace, like, here.
But the thing is, they just weren't.
And she thought, every day she thought, oh, no, has this duck come back here?
But no, it hadn't.
And then, we saw an article in the news not long ago, that a couple of Muscatees, one
was killed, and one had a dart in it, by some kid, or some deranged person.
But that was at McLaren Park.
And so I thought, well, maybe they moved them, maybe they took the one from here and
moved it to McLaren, but you'd think that wouldn't be safe.
But I thought, I don't even know where McLaren Park is.
Neither do I, actually.
I thought I was going and checking.
You know, ask somebody.
Yeah.
Who lives near there, Daniel.
Okay, well, I won't keep you anymore.
Okay.
It's so nice to meet you, Carla.
You too.
Have a nice evening.
So I'll probably remove the conversation that just took place between an elderly woman
and me about one of the ducks in the lake here, where I'm walking.
And that will be another example of severance.
Right?
Because an event will have taken place during the walk that you're listening to me speak
within.
But you will not know what it was.
You'll have no memory of it whatsoever.
It occurred in sequence, but it will be removed.
And so we undergo this cascade of severances.
And this is why that show is so provocative, because some of us will immediately see the superficial
metaphor that we are different people in our jobs than we are in our homes.
Our roles are different.
And so that's the most superficial metaphor.
The next most obvious one is the division between our dreaming selves and our waking selves.
Most of us don't even, many of us anyway, would not even suspect that we have existed previous to this life,
or that we are deathless.
Right?
That there's no actual death except for the body that we're currently associated with.
Very few of us have significantly efficient autobiographical memory.
One of my friends, brilliant wildlife wilderness guide and photographer, Sarah West, her previous
husband had essentially eidetic episodic memory.
And could tell her on what day, on what time, something happened in the past.
Very few of us have memory of that form.
And to each of us, our memories are uniquely structured and uniquely,
they are uniquely structured in what they can serve and they are uniquely structured in what is missing.
And often as we get older, these features transform.
And we will begin, some of us, to remember events in our childhood very clearly.
A variety of different kinds of transformations may occur.
Fundamentally, severance, the show, is, could be understood to be talking about the technological modulation of our capacities for memory.
I was born in the sixties, before there were computers.
And I've read a few thousand books in my time.
Hmm, what are these birds?
I have not seen these birds.
I have not seen these before.
Oh, oh, I see.
They are a form of duck.
Hmm.
Hmm.
Or maybe they are a form of goose.
Small geese of some kind.
They look a bit more goose-like.
Now, where was I?
You see, memory.
Thread memory is very tricky stuff.
I have unique experiences with mine.
And there are forms of memory that have to be developed or exercised in order to continue to exist or to arise in our consciousness at all.
So, severance is, can be understood to be speaking about the relationship between technology and identity.
Right?
Right?
Who we are.
Not merely memory.
But also the way in which technology mediates who we are or can become.
Who we were.
How we may or may not be remembered.
And all of these matters are very profound.
This is what I mean when I say it's a holophore, right?
It's like an endless spiral of connections to crucially important experiences.
These circle around the distinction between the waters of memory and the avatar of those waters, Manima Saini, and the waters of forgetting and the avatar of those waters, the waters of Lethe, from which we get the word lethal.
So, in a way, you know, I remember when I first got a smartphone, it was due to a job.
I waited until 2016.
And then I had a job with a film producer.
And in order to do that job, I needed to have a smartphone.
So, he sent me one.
And I named it Amnesia.
Little did I, I mean, I knew I had studied the effects on human beings, attention, awareness, and so forth, from afar, for many years.
Which is why I avoided having one of those demons.
But I did not realize just how devastating it would become over even short periods of time, nor how quickly that device would appear in my dreams.
So, technologies sever us from our interiority and from each other, and then they present the representational remains of those relationships as icons, tokens, TikToks, Instagrams, and so forth.
So, as our species becomes more technological, we don't merely become less human or merely less aware.
We are fed to the machines.
Our interiority is fed to the machines.
Just as most of us underwent during the processes of in-languaging, which severed us in some ways from childhood play and imagination.
And enculturation, which had similar effects.
Who knows what we might have become had the effects of those processes been less severe or less intrusive in terms of our relationships with our interiority and our potential as beings, organisms, animals, humans.
Men and women and everything in between.
So, the severance metaphor goes very deep.
And we also, part of the reason why the idea exists at all and why it's so powerful is that our situation as human beings is agonizing.
We live, most of us, not all of us.
Everything that I say, just put a little asterisk by it so that you know I don't mean everyone, because the diversity of humans and our experiences and how we are in the world and how we are with ourselves and how we are with others and so forth, is shockingly profound and does not resemble any simple generalization.
Though you may hear me use some.
So, just bear that caveat in mind.
We undergo a cascade of severances from our own interiority, from our psyches, from our souls, from our nature as beings.
Which is surely transcendental to anything we can even possibly think.
Our thinking is mostly symptomatic where it is not skillful or somehow effective.
For example, the way that a programmer thinks about a process or an engineer, about repairing or inventing a device or...
You know, a mother pausing to actually consider cognitively.
and emotionally what her child needs or desires.
As we grow older,
As we grow older,
we are severed from many relationships,
and not merely by death.
Our work does sever us from each other.
Our situation in modernity severs us from each other.
So, there is this vast cascade, really a tree, of any Audi-like aspects of ourselves.
Each with their own unique features of memory and forgetting.
Women walking by me were just saying, yeah, with a terrible look on her face, an eight hour day shift.
Shift.
What's a shift?
Right?
Well, it's a shift from being human to being a function.
And that's another kind of severance.
Now, when I look at my phone, if I were to take it out right now, of course I'm recording at the moment, but if I were to start...
you know, let's say I loaded up some app or something, Facebook or whatever, and I began looking at it, my situational awareness would drop to near zero.
That device is so compelling.
And it represents severance from something that we don't even know exists.
Which is the thing that it emulates.
And what is that?
It's universal connectivity.
Our position in the manifold of all minds and all beings in all of time.
And that is our fundamental basis.
Although, some might argue, no, the fundamental basis is even more profound than that.
It is a kind of pure undifferentiated potential, sometimes referred to as emptiness, by Buddhists or Hindus.
That emptiness is not nothing.
Right?
When they use this word empty, they don't mean...
Well, it depends on who's using the word and in what context.
It's not a single thing they mean.
Certainly.
But, if I'm going to generalize, the emptiness of enlightenment or moksha is not actually...
It's not nothing.
Right?
It's...
It's everything at once with no qualities of any kind.
And no attachments of any kind.
Or something resembling this.
Although, trying to make face noises about this is a very silly thing to do.
So, I should be sternly reprimanded.
And if any of you would like to sternly reprimand me, well, get in touch.
Especially if you're, you know, of the desirable gender.
So many of our, in fact, nearly all of our experiences in modernity, involve this idea of severance.
Think carefully about what happens to you when you begin and end a task.
Right now, I'm on a walk.
I have severed myself from the familiar, comforting and, quote, safe, unquote, situation in my preservation box.
Otherwise known as my flat.
And I'm outdoors, where there's a lot more risk and novelty.
And beauty.
Also more danger.
At the point at which I realized I was on my way home, quote, unquote, my role in the situation transformed.
Think about the difference of you before going to get your mail and after having opened it.
Well, that's a relatively archaic idea.
Before writing and after writing.
Before sex and after sex.
Before a meal and after a meal.
Or, if you want a more trenchant example of severance, think about what happens when you get into your car to drive it.
All of the features.
Well, whenever I use this word all, put an asterisk there and realize he doesn't actually mean all.
But a vast array of the features of who you are, how you are, what you are perceiving, how you are in the world, how you are with yourself, how you are with others and so forth, transform dramatically when you get into a car.
Or, ride a motorcycle or like my friend Eric, ride your scooter or a bicycle or any transportation device.
Notice the trans in there.
Normally that trans phoneme means change, but it can also be understood to mean trance, the change in consciousness that happens.
In the Lumann elevator, one person gets in at the bottom, a different memory person gets out at the top.
One, you know, the innie gets in at the top and an outie comes out the bottom.
So you can see how this is relevant to not just the radical and significant features of our experience as human beings, but also to the very small experiences.
When you are in the bathroom, when you are using the restroom, you transform going in and coming out.
Each of the specialized tasks that you may be performing, change your awareness, consciousness, identity and memory.
Some of them much more dramatically than others.
Think about yourself before a traumatic experience and after, where some of the features of that experience may have restructured fundamental features of your interiority about which you have no conscious awareness.
How conscious are we actually?
What does it mean to be aware?
These questions lead to ways of knowing if we pursue them, but if we merely entertain them trivially,
oh, I heard the question he asked, right, in this manner, I understand the language he used.
Then they don't have much effect.
The experience of the death of some being that we love.
The conversation that I had, which I will excise from this recording with Carla at the lake's edge was about her concern about what she understands to be a white female Muscovy duck.
I know the duck she's speaking about.
And its whereabouts and well-being.
People we love will die.
We will die.
We will suffer losses of faculties, abilities, so forth, throughout our lifetime.
We will gain some abilities and we will lose others.
We may gain relationships, but the vast reach of technology, while it does sometimes result in new human relationships,
has the overall effect of severing us from one another.
And then what?
Substituting media for intimacy, connection, mutual concern, mutual rescue.
Since we're talking, since I'm talking here about memory, I should mention that who I am changes based on who I am with,
not merely what I am doing.
And it changes dramatically.
I am a very different person with a police officer than I am with a doctor, than I am with a lawyer, than I am with a salesman.
Though I rarely have encounters with any of these specializations.
And most of them will probably be taken over by machines.
I doubt I will last long enough to see that, but salesmen are an uncommon thing in my experience these days.
Amazon takes care of that.
Another feature of severance that is important is how our jobs have transformed.
Since we who are not intrinsically wealthy have to work, Amazon resembles Luman, and so does Facebook, and Twitter, and so forth.
These are corporations, very strange and mysterious idea that, that dictate roles to humans while they are awake.
And those humans take up those roles for benefits like pay or status.
What does that do to their memory?
Well one of the things it does, is it restructures the input to memory, so that what you want and have, while you are at work, is a variety of generally forgettable experiences.
And experiences that are impersonal, functional, transactional, and so forth.
The green light invites us to continue our journey.
The red light demands that we cease travel.
My friend Eric, who introduced me to severance, died, was killed at an intersection, because a very probably intoxicated person,
or a person paying attention to a computing device like a smart phone ran a red light and killed him.
I had no way to contact Eric's family.
But the last time I called his phone, sometime in early September, after about a month of not hearing from him,
his aunt picked up and told me what had happened.
It was agonizing, an agonizing moment.
And it remains painful.
However, Eric and I were profoundly close.
And the next morning, he showed up in a dream.
And we talked for some time in the place where there are no words about his experience of death.
But for the sake of his family, I will keep that part of the conversation private.
However, for those people who think,
Ah, yes, well, you were just imagining that it's not possible for there to be beings continuing to exist after their death.
You're welcome to think or believe whatever pleases you, or whatever you feel you should think or believe.
But when I awoke, he was still with me.
And we continued the conversation.
And the exchange of mutual care and concern that began that morning.
And that was a profound comfort.
Of course, nothing can take the place of the sweetness of his spirit, his laughter, his voice in my waking world life.
And I can no longer just talk to him by calling him up on the phone.
Though there are other methods.
I'm not sure if I'm going to proceed with my plan to write the essay about the topics I've sketched here.
I may, but for people who don't find it convenient or enjoyable to read my often book-length essays, you have this recording.
I'm not sure I'm not sure I'm a fan of the TV show, though.
I will mention, I've certainly enjoyed it.
My son and I are presently watching season two.
I'll link, I'll put a link to the theme at the end of this recording.
There's so much more to say.
The severity of the severances we undergo in relation with technology and culture, anti-culture really, is infinitely profound.
But for the moment, I have accomplished my goal.
Thank you for joining me.
I'm grateful for this time together.
I wonder what we will remember of it later.
And who will be doing the remembering?
And under what aegis?
Hey man, good to see you.
Thank you for joining me.
Thank you for joining me.
I look forward to learning together again very soon.
Peace for now.
I've got an elevator to get into.
I've got an elevator to get into.
