Hello everybody. Welcome. So grateful to have this time together to explore and learn and remember some features of our human potential and intelligence which are largely obscured where they are not overtly counterfeited in our common thoughts.
Thought experience and particularly electronic behavior. I like to think that using these technologies to establish a context in which we can learn and discover, recall, activate, retrieve some of the potentials of our nature for communal thought, understanding, and intelligence.
It is a beautiful way to do something other than what is most commonly done.
Granted that there are many people who use technologies in ways that at least invoke the restoration of our human potentials, which are vastly stranger and nearly infinitely more profound than most of what we end up inheriting and replicating from our truly bizarre and misguided cultures.
cultures that aren't actually cultures and are mostly counterfeits.
This morning I was reading from a book recommended by a friend of mine who's presently in prison, The Dawn of Everything by David Graeber and David Wengro, Farrar, Strauss, and Giroux.
And it was my goal to read some excerpts from this book for my channel, but I quickly realized that that was not going to be reasonable or possible.
Since the censorship apparatus that underlies Google, Facebook, YouTube, Twitter, Instagram, TikTok, Pinterest, I mean the list just goes on, even Blue Sky, is too dangerous to oppose.
And should we find ourselves on the wrong side of that, our ability to, my ability to make videos or reach out into the communal electrosphere will be severely curtailed if not completely shut down.
So I will not be reading in this video from the book.
I recently received my first strike from YouTube in a recording with Tessa Lena, which was removed, where I opined on some features related to the safety of food in certain countries.
And that was unexpected, since I have hundreds of videos, and have never received a strike before.
The video was simply removed. I appealed it. They denied the appeal.
So I'm going to be a lot more careful about that in the future and in the present.
However, I want to note the bizarre irony here.
Google, which runs YouTube, is the ostensible owner of a variety of LLM projects, among them Gemini, previously Bard, which are profoundly and fundamentally plagiaristic.
My own work, my own work, my voice, my writings, and many other features of my creative output have been consumed and digested, along with the creative work of millions of other human beings,
to produce a product that plagiarizes our humanity, our intelligence, and our creativity, in a fundamental sense that is effectively unopposable.
So while we individuals and creators must be profoundly concerned about acquiring the negative attention of companies like Google or YouTube,
they can very provocatively and blatantly produce products that fundamentally plagiarize human creativity.
I keep forgetting to change this setting.
One moment.
So I find this very troubling and provocative.
However, in the interest of maintaining the distribution of my video work and my interviews and so on,
I will be cautious about producing content that violates what they call community standards, which is a hilarious misapplication of language.
So, yeah, this whole copyright thing, right?
Weird and dangerous in its foundations.
Fundamentally, it is a product of the desire and the traditional purpose to profit, to create a bunch of divisions, right?
And to profit from the capture of creative work by the marketplace and by monetary interests.
Now, what I'm going to be talking about when I read later in a video that will not be posted here, but which you will be able to find on my private internet site, organelle.org.
I'm going to be reading from a chapter called Wicked Liberty in the dawn of everything.
And in these brief essays, what is being discussed is the peculiar fascination with and objection to what was understood in the 1700s and perhaps 1800s to be European culture by the indigenous Americans.
And they're profoundly insightful, intellectually skillful, rhetorically skillful objections to the European concept of freedom or liberty.
And these conversations are catalyzed by, they originate in the question of when did the idea of social equality arise and when did we, when was it common and when did it become common in the West to discuss social inequality?
And it turns out that the indigenous Americans were profoundly critical and shocked by their discovery that the Europeans were essentially slaves.
And they obeyed.
And they obeyed the commands of their sergeants and corporals and lieutenants, that there was widespread poverty and that there were people starving and dying in the streets while right next door other people were feasting and, you know, drinking expensive liqueurs and things and wearing clothes worth more than some of those dying people would ever have.
In their lives.
And so they were profoundly opposed to this idea of money and of hierarchical structure in human communal societies.
And we're shocked to discover the bizarre disease-like contagions that had spread throughout civilized Europe under the guise of the seeking of freedom or, you know, liberty or fraternity.
So what it turns out that in these Indian cultures, which in this book they refer to as Americans, and they describe the common people that they, that they encountered as profoundly articulate, capable of complex rhetorical thought argument.
They were shocked that people who had never undergone anything resembling formal education could possibly hold a candle to the erudite intellectuals that occasionally found their way to the Americas.
And what they discovered, which was very surprising to them, was that it was impossible to compel anyone to do anything against their will.
There was no possibility, there was no such thing as giving orders.
Didn't exist.
No one would do anything they didn't voluntarily do.
And even though they had sort of offices, but they weren't, that you could call chiefs or whatever, those chiefs could not compel anyone to do anything.
Um, they could talk and conjole until they died of speaking and not a single person would obey an order.
There was no such thing as an order.
Neither was there anything like legal systems, monetary systems, or punishment.
Um, in the case, uh, there's going to be a little background noise here because I, I live in a city.
Um, in the case where some kind of wrongdoing had occurred or whatever, this would be socially negotiated, um, and the perpetrator was never punished and certainly not in any formal way.
Um, the community themselves, the families and so on, took on the onus of the conceived injustice and made amends in various ways to, um, create a situation.
And where things like, um, you know, immediate vengeance would be buffered.
And the Americans, i.e. the indigenous people here, found it absolutely inexplicable that humans should be subject to the will of others.
That there should be hierarchies of power, that land could be owned, that money would dictate relationships among humans, uh, and all kinds of other bizarre, uh, and inconceivable, um, distortions of our human communal nature.
Um, which as far as far as they were concerned, um, um, um, um, had been established and lived out so incredibly long ago, but the idea that anything could replace that was as absurd as it was inconceivable.
Um, um, um, um, there were among the American indigenous people, certain particular, particularly articulate, uh, folks, um, they found that the women were as capable in conversation and debate as the men.
Um, and part of the reason why they were so sophisticated was that they regularly came together to discuss, debate, play with, and explore the possibilities of their communal situation and identity in very sophisticated ways.
Ways that we Westerners might imagine would be impossible without formal education, which leads me to one of the insights that I've had recently.
The real demon, um, in modernity and the histories that led to it turns out from one perspective, an important one, not the only one, to be the formalization of value, identity.
Um, um, power, hierarchy, law, rights, and so forth.
Um, no one I imagine in these indigenous cultures had anything resembling rights rights are a formalized, um, a fossilized absence of the otherwise natural, uh, intercommunal and interpersonal concern that would certainly prevail in any actual situation.
civilization, culture, culture, society, or community.
So once you see things like the formalization of value in money, the formalization of power in offices, the formalization of laws in courtrooms, and so on, you are clearly, the whole situation has wildly departed anything resembling civilization, society, or community.
Money, money, particularly, was despised, um, by the, uh, indigenous Americans.
And they couldn't imagine how anything resembling humanity could possibly exist or be pursued in a situation where private property, cash, and the currying of hierarchical power within the opposite of societies sat in the throne of our communal interest, nature, intelligence, potential, development.
Safety and health.
Uh, uh, they reviled the idea that value could be commodified in this very bizarre and dangerous way.
And saw it as a fundamental evil with which they should have no contact and to which they should grant no authority.
There's a lot more here to be said, um, but I'd like to read now from the book.
So I'm going to pause here.
And, uh, if you simply go to my website and load the URL, um, just go to the, the, um, my DNS, right? Organel.org.
And then if you load the URL, um, wl.mp4, uh, you will be able to watch and listen to the recordings that I will make.
Thank you for joining me.
I look forward to learning and unforgetting together again very soon.
Bye-bye for now.
Hi, everybody.
So it turned out that it was difficult for me to upload the very long video, large video, where I originally planned to.
So the correct URL, um, to view it is transcendence.net.
That's T-R-A-N-S-E-N-T-I-E-N-C-E dot N-E-T backslash all lowercase wl.mp4.
Enjoy.
