I don't want to set the world on fire, I just want to start a flame in your heart.
So yeah, whenever that happens, I'm inclined to recapitulate what got missed, but I'll skip
that.
Anyway, what I was talking about is like, if you're attacking something that's blatantly
puerile or idiotic, and you're a sophisticated mind, why are you like the Four Horsemen, Hitchens
and Dawkins and Harrison, and Dennett, right?
You know, these are high powered intellectuals, and they're attacking common Christians. Okay,
like you got nukes, and you're fighting people with slingshots, why are you picking them?
Now, there's some reasons to pick them, too. But it's a similar problem. And, you know,
people like Dan McClellan, and Kip, what's his name, can't remember his last name, Attack
Hillman, in part with good reason, McClellan's brilliant, right? He's a brilliant scholar.
And I deeply appreciate listening to him. But he got some shit blatantly wrong in his
reputations of Hillman. Hillman was saying, you know, when the Torah was written, Hebrew
had about on a vocabulary of about 8,000 words. And McClellan said, No, no, it's 80,000. He's
wrong. It's 8,000.
All right. That's a really small vocabulary compared to Greek, you got at least 150, and
maybe 250,000 words. But anyway, I guess what I'm trying to say is, Hillman has a significant
chip on his shoulder. And it has a lot to do with the demonization of sex, and the use of
intoxicants in Christianity. And one of the things that I agree with him about, which is
something we can go deep on, if we get to talk again, is if you deprive people of fundamental
aspects of their humanity, then that's a control. That's a control gambit you want. So the other
weird thing is the whole terrification of the afterlife, right? Going to torture you forever.
Because you masturbated God was watching, you know, this kind of thing. So that stuff's really
nonsensical. There might be something to the virtue of chastity. But the whole like, either
you worship Jesus, or you go to hell forever. That's just ridiculous nonsense. For sure.
That's something that happens. That's a conversion gambit, right? We're going to take something
sacred. We're going to reforge it into a weapon and point it at your soul and your heart and
your mind. And everybody's naturally afraid of death anyway. So they steal that fear. And,
you know, that's just a conversion gambit that religions undergo in their attempt to survive
as thrisps in human culture, in my view. So there's a lot of disagree with about Hillman's
approach, but I don't have to agree with people to enjoy their mind. You know, this is another
thing like, I read all kinds of people, I love minds that I have deep disagreements with.
If there's, it's just like, if you go to a restaurant, there's something totally disgusting
on the menu, but one of your favorite foods is there too. You don't, you don't not go
because they offer the disgusting food.
So yeah, that's my, that's my introductory blather on that.
It might even be worth tasting the disgusting food for, you know, a time or two once in a
while. I mean, absolutely. Yeah, yeah.
It's like to relish in remembering where the line is or, or just the joy of difference.
Or not even that. Like you think, you know what you like and what you don't like, but what
is that part of you? That's thinking that like you had a bad experience once. Yeah. You know,
I kissed a girl and her brother beat me up. So that's the end of kissing girls for me.
Um,
Yep.
Uh, there's a lot of spirituality that talks about letting go of identity, but I, you know,
I always, the deepest Buddhist spirituality also describes letting go of preference, which
I think is, you know, lovely and interesting, but you know, I'm in Hillman. I mean, he is,
um, he's serving a great thirst, isn't he? And it's, you know, it's just exactly along the
lines that you described is that this institution for centuries has terrified, terrification, you
know, uh, uh, terrified the realms of death and sex and drugs. And there's this massive thirst or
backlash out there, which he's feeding. And you know, like you said, though, I love this phrase, um,
you know, every projection is a confession. Wow. Did I say that? No, I mean, you're, you're,
there's this, the first that's created by the institutional situation and the chip that people
have on their shoulder to go after it and to rectify it. You know, it, it just reminds me,
you know, every way in which, uh, somebody projects their, their thirst or their desire or their,
their trauma, you know, or their wrath, right? Yeah. Wrath is definitely a flag that, um,
that is being raised by a part of themselves that isn't getting to speak openly to the world and be
seen. And sometimes it doesn't even get to speak openly to themselves and be seen. And that's what
generates the rage. You know, I have rage too, you know, the bad things happen to me. And actually most of
the, to be very honest, most of the worst things that happened to me, weren't the things that
happened to me, they were my reactions. Um, but Hillman's doing amazing stuff. And I think the
most important thing he's doing, regardless of his kind of a performance art maniac persona, which is
really entertaining and hilarious, um, to me, I find it, I find it thus, uh, he's teaching ancient
Greek. That's the thing that's important. He's teaching modern people to read ancient Greek. And that
is profoundly crucial. It's imp, it's nearly impossible to have a sophisticated mind. If you
don't know an ancient language, I mean, really know it like the grammar, the letters, their meanings,
the gematria, all these things, right? These are things that English just doesn't even have.
Um, even the gendering of nouns, we think like, oh, that's kind of a, you know, that's not politically
correct. Banana isn't masculine, you know, or whatever. Uh, you're wrong, because
what happens when you throw away the gendering of nouns and I'm not claiming we should stick to, um,
idio, you know, idiosyncratic gender, but, um, when you throw away the gendering of nouns, you're
getting rid of a dimension of meaning in language, right? It's not a matter of, is the banana actually
masculine? That's not the point. The point is to be able to think in that way. And so to
connotate and triangulate on meaning in a way that is impossible in non-gendered down languages,
right? It's a whole dimension of complexity that gets tossed. Um, yeah, I, I think he's, uh,
you know, he's a maniac and he's a, he's a playboy. Um, he's really a trip.
I get the impression about ancient Greek. Um, and this is probably wrong or it might be wrong. And
I'm, I'm kind of curious to hear your thoughts on it. Um, I get the impression that part of the beauty
is, uh, what's the word. It's just this constant creation of, um, uh, new words,
you know, like it, it, um, is not fettered by, uh, uh, uh, calcified vocabulary,
but rather, you know, you approach it in assembling parts in a way that, um, creates neologisms,
of course, is the word I was looking for. Is that accurate?
Yeah, it's brilliant. Um, gorgeous. Oh yeah. I love it. Uh, yeah. If you speak a language,
so German is, I think another language that's like this, it's, um, neologenerating
or something, uh, we don't have to create nonsensical words, but, um,
so it's, it's not just friendly to neologizing. And this is so important because if you speak a
language that you're, where you're not trained to invent words, you're missing three quarters of the
power of language, right? And you're, you're stuck in a calc, like, as you say, a calcified vocabulary,
um, that's terribly unfortunate and it fucks up intelligence. It just fucks it up.
So language should be our toy and it should serve our needs rather than, uh, just having us preserve
and transmit it. Um, it's ironic how we're encouraged to recall instead of to create.
Right. Right. Reiterate rather than invent.
One thing that reminds me of simply is, um, you know, just this idea of the dictionary and the
lexicon and, and kind of the, um, you know, the confines that presents, you know, the kind of cage
it is designed to be. Um, I remember back in high school, we studied a guy, I forget who,
maybe it was, um, uh, you know, one of the people who wrote a famous dictionary way back when,
and he had this almost like platonic idea that words were words. Yeah. At least this is the story
that was transmitted to me, you know, but he had this belief in the character of words and what they
meant and that, you know, by defining words very carefully, of course, that he could, um,
bring the poor unwashed masses up to educated levels and, um, you know, who knows whatever else,
whatever other kind of motivations, uh, could be realized by the, you know, by the codification of
various words in creating the, you know, creating the shelter and the engine to define people's minds.
But of course, what he found out there is that they float around freely in the public vernacular.
That words were kind of this manifestation of, um, at that point, you know, before advertising,
before TV, before any of that stuff, words were, um, most of them anyway, were kind of fluid and
really represented however people used them. And so I think, you know, the story that I heard was
that much to this guy's chagrin, uh, you know, famous dictionary writer, um, he found that people
define the words and that's hard to press down on them. And I, you know, it's, it's interesting
studying the roots of words, uh, you know, for a lot of my work, I've kind of studied the roots
of words as they've been subject to marketing and politics. I think about words like, uh, racism,
which if you look at the etymology, you'll notice only really was conceived around 1940 or 1950 came
into popular use. And prior to that, uh, word racialism predominated. And the definition of a
word like that is split, you know, there, there are plenty of people in America that think it means
one thing and plenty of people in America that think it means a different thing. And there's
weight put on the scale to adjust those meanings over time. Um, but it just fascinates me the way
that the very foundation of language is used to, you know, guide how people think about anything.
It's very powerful.
So it's interesting. All the things that you're, you're sharing, I value them. Um,
obviously as human beings, we get, I mean, I'm not trying to speak for other people, but it's obvious
from the behavior of others that they experienced something like this, um, perhaps men more, you
know, generally more than women strive for control or, or the appearance of control and, um, this
motivation to, you know, declare the meanings of words and presume that their senses
are, uh, concrete, right. That's clearly
it's just, okay. So that's a projection and it's raising a flag of insecurity and vulnerability
and possibly trauma historically in the mind or the development of this person.
Um, yet there is a language
So to speak, uh, in which the terms are very, are clearly enough to find that it's effectively
mechanical and that's the language of math, math. If we think of that as a language,
but what I'm trying to get at here is
it's impossible to be right about language,
Okay. To get it right. There's just no way to do that. What you, the whole, I mean, language is
like your, like the eye of your consciousness, right? It doesn't actually see, but it experiences
something that we medify as seeing, um, language determines features of cognition. It doesn't
determine them absolutely. So maybe the right word is has a determinative determinative influence or
strong determinative influence. It also has the capacity to occlude by reference. So
when you don't know, quote, what a tree is, you're much more likely to experience all wonder,
exploration, play, terror, all these things. Once you know the word tree,
that tends to get in the way. There's a certain aspect of human cognition
where once you think, you know, the label for something, you confuse that with intimacy, knowledge
of the thing. And so interest fades away. Once you know the term for many of us in some, you know,
aspects of our experience. So, you know,
by the time we get, we had writing and certainly spoken and sung languages predated that dramatically.
And by the time we had writing, I don't even know who we are because different cultures developed it
differently in different places and times. Right. So let's just keep that in mind and for different
purposes. But once we had writing, now you have this thing like spelling, at least in the non iconic or
iconographic languages such as Egyptian, Chinese. And that spelling thing is actually a magical thing.
You know, we moderns don't have any experience of the origins of the tools we are using.
So I like to say words don't have meanings. We use words to mean things to each other.
I'm not saying that in an absolutist sense. I would acknowledge the senses in the dictionary,
right, the numbered, denotative things that we call definitions, but they're, I mean,
sentences, but if you look carefully, you're going to find that they're specifically defined.
So there's actually no way. This is what led me in part to the understanding of holophores,
that there are key terms that influence the meaning of all of their terms kind of invisibly.
What you think the sun is, what the world is, what people are, what dreaming is, or friend,
or food, or eye, or hand. These things all link together in a ring underneath our languages
that's invisible to us and damage to those things fucks up our minds. But yeah,
that's just me blathering on as I often do. Thank you for your patience with my loquacious insanity.
So nobody's going to get it right. If we don't neologize, we tend to be slaves of the calcified
vocabularies we inherit. And that's not good. I'm not a fan of that.
Yeah, I love hearing it. That's good stuff. I mean, there are so many analogies to this. The language
itself is, you know, like the finger pointing at the moon, but it's not the moon, right? It's the,
it's this weird floating
arbiter.
It's, you know, I think maybe Tyler George has said that, you know, this,
and I've read elsewhere, the, you know, the symbol comes to us.
And we were one person before the symbol and we're a different person after the symbol.
Um, but you know, to communicate to another human being is, um,
there's this weird intermediary that can be, um, can be screwed around with
via the spelling.
Haha.
It's magical.
Well, the vocal music is the, um, corollary, the precursor of spelling.
Before there was writing, vocal music, the intonation, the prosody, the rhythm, the meter,
these were the primary communicators of meaning and still are today.
Um, radical difference between, for example,
someone who talks like this all the time, they just kind of keep going like this,
but there's even a rhythm there.
Right.
And someone who's, um, vocal music comes to life, which just about everybody in here does.
Um, though each of us has a very unique, um, vocal music
and what was I trying to get out?
Oh yeah.
Okay.
So here's the crazy thing.
When we're talking and listening,
we're doing something kind of nuts that we should understand in a, in a much clearer way.
I would invite us to look more deeply into this,
which is that we're literally structuring each other's minds by transmitting sounds.
And that's fucking not.
So if you think carefully about this power,
magic is boring compared to that.
Like in my recent essay, um, organisms are a platform for non-physical intelligence,
for the embodiment of non-physical intelligences.
I tried to make a 19 word title, but I only got like 12.
Um, in that essay, you know, I talk about, uh, the, the human predilection for transmission
and reception and what that means, right?
Um, where that comes from.
So when, when you're speaking and I'm listening,
you are instructing the, not you, you, okay.
So it's really trippy.
You are doing a magic thing in my view that changes the structure of my cognition
and my mind and my awareness and my feelings,
all these things get together.
And then I make noises in response or in return.
And when we're doing this really well,
something really amazing happens, which is like you, for example, drag us up three rungs
is on the left.
We usually are stuck on one rung up.
And then if that goes well, take the result of that and drag us five rungs higher.
And we play this kind of leapfrog game.
And that game is truly beautiful and magical when it's being played that way.
And that's something I love and believe in.
Oh, that's fantastic.
I, I have questions about that.
There's something I, oh man.
Um, something also I want to share maybe before a question.
Um, beautiful.
I, I feel like, uh, you know, I often reflect on at least three ways in which, you know,
to put my own words to it, we lend our minds out.
And I mean that even more strongly, of course, than, you know, could ever be expressed there.
I, um, I, I think this culture, of course, the society leads us to think that we have our own minds,
that we are, you know, the voice, of course, that speaks to us in certain ways sometimes in our heads.
And it's interesting to kind of maybe get some separation from that, right?
I, um, I think probably all of us started reading very early and read a lot when we were young.
And, you know, I've been made aware the way people read a text critically, you know, or,
or carefully where they separate themselves from the voice of the author and the written word.
And, um, sometimes I do that, especially if it doesn't make perfect sense right off the bat,
or if I'm like trying to, you know, so it's interesting that I can create this
separation between me and the word as it comes to me.
But a lot of the time when I read, um, my mind is the authors, you know, like my eyes glance across
the page, but there's no, there's no work there. I'm just possessed by the written word.
And I think that that is, uh, it's an interesting way to see how my mind at least, and I think this
is common, how it operates that way. And I've maybe mentioned this, uh, in the past once or twice,
but, uh, Verveke made me aware of how the written word was first transmitted to people. Of course,
like, you know, reading back in the days of languages, uh, was very rare and relied on scribes,
you know, people who, um, did this as a profession. And of course, everything was religious in these
times. And the way that the written word was shared with people was that it was sung aloud.
Yes.
And I, I think a lot of, you know, of course this dovetails just beautifully into
what you were saying and, uh, the Adams language video and all this. Um,
but when Hillman, because Hillman, what makes Tillman powerful is that he's singing,
right? It's his intonation, bro. It's the way he captivates you. And you know, a lot of people hate
that and they just shrivel up when they hear that, that, um, sort of LA bro, you know,
prosody, but other, but it's captivating nonetheless. Right. That's why I picked it up.
Right. I didn't pick it up on purpose. It just got inside me. And I was like, wait, what,
what? Oh, beautiful. Yeah. Oh God. Yeah.
Yeah. Wouldn't you want to die that way? No, who wouldn't want to die that way?
You know, like you, you hear the, first of all, there's enthusiasm,
right? Which we so rarely hear unless someone's yelling at us these days,
who speaks with passion and enthusiasm in our common experience.
And it's interesting that those people have been inoculated against it.
They've been cultured carefully to distrust it
because one of the only, sorry, go ahead. But I just want to say really briefly, one of the only
places we commonly see this is on the Christian pulpit. Yeah. And people go insane. They go insane
when they hear that. It's just, it gets inside them and makes their, their googlys all get all Gwidji.
Cause there's a power to it. I mean, what, what you were describing is not that,
you know, Hillman's lilt is interesting or, or not even, you know, not that alone, not,
not even that it's beautiful. Cause it is, but even beyond that, it's tapping into something
much deeper about us, you know, it's something primordial and also it resembles song, right?
It's much more martial in what the Christians generally do though. You can find, you know, it's,
see, this is another reason why you don't want to just throw Christianity out the door.
Yeah, because it's bad, right? Because these weird little behaviors of humans preserve certain
features of our humanity that are otherwise lost. So just like we might go to an archaeological site and
make, you know, some discovery or there's treasures in there that you don't want to just throw away.
And I, I bet you that Hillman's lilt comes from having sat through 500, you know, a thousand Baptist preachers.
He didn't make that up.
It comes from someplace very, very deep, you know, between our soul and this materiality.
Yeah. Also between our mind and language. Yeah. Right. It's the same difference between our soul
and, um, materiality or the sort of, uh, physicalist or eliminative, um, materialism perspectives.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Like there's things that bridge that gap.
Yeah. I may have described this before sometime in the past, but, um, there's this movie, man,
I love movies. So it's such a, yeah, this is relates to our conversation, of course.
Yeah. You know, I'm a big fan of oxygen. Go ahead.
Yeah, no, there, there's a way in which I'm able to experience another person's experience
through the movie, you know, and the, the, the one that I'm speaking of in this case is
the thin red line. Um, which is a movie about world war two and, um, it's such a subtle scene.
And I think they even clipped it, um, in anything but the extended cut, which is unfortunate, but
there's a scene in which, um, these two sailors straight out of the belly of a killing machine
of a battleship, you know, they desert and they wash up on, uh, a South Pacific Island
and they're with these people, you know, and, uh, the, in the morning, the sun rises
and these people, the, the 80 or 100 people, they begin a song and they begin it naturally.
They begin it because they've begun this song every day of their lives, every day of the sun has risen
and it's the song they sing when they go to harvest and everyone knows their part. They were,
they were born into their part. Everyone knows their harmony. It's the harmony they've known every,
every morning when they go to harvest in the fields. It's this, it's the shared mind, you know,
you know, this participatory knowing is what Verveke would say this, um, the sense of togetherness
through this song in which they're not just their voices, but their minds harmonize.
Wow. It was always hung with me. Okay. So I got a million things on my mind and I'm aware of the
importance of, um, sharing the space together right now. So you had, you mentioned you had some
questions and I just don't want to lose track of it. I still got them. I still got it. Okay.
If you want to carry on, please do. All right. So, you know, uh, George and I were talking last
night, um, I'm just going to use a bunch of filler words. Um, uh, uh, and, and, and, and I'll stutter a
bit. Um, and I was trying to explain something that the humans have forgotten about what it is to be
human. And let me be absolutely clear whether or not they're conscious of it. Those Christian
preachers up on the pulpit, they know about this thing. And what they're going to do is they're going
to get a big group of people all riled up about the same thing at the same time. And when they do
that, what that accomplishes is it creates a thing that we could imagine. There's different ways to
imagine it that are useful. But one of the ways that I favor is it creates an antenna. And when those
guys are singing, the story that you're telling that you saw in this film, um, I'm also, uh, I really
love the film, um, the big red one, which is another brilliant, uh, world war two movie. Um, but yeah,
when those guys are singing, they're forming an antenna. And, um, if we don't do that together, when we,
when we stopped doing that together, we've forgotten what it means to be human because the idea of
separate individuals that we are, are trapped in, in much of modernity is just, uh, absolutely
debilitating. We're missing 90% of what it means to be human if we're not having experiences like that.
I mean, why, you know, why do you think people form what we call musical groups, right? What are they
doing? Well, one of the things they're doing is something that's better than most of their other
experience. So they don't, they don't have to tell you, oh yeah, we're trying to make an antenna.
You know, it's what Darren was saying, but that's what they're doing. And the antenna
both transmits and receives from the audience. Um, they're doing some weird anamnesis shit,
some weird spiritual resurrection shit. Uh, and I was using some example. I mean, actually in the
conversation with George last night, I was talking about how our reproductive organs, we don't know
what those are. We think they're just for rubbing together and making babies. They have like 50 other
astonishing functions. And I'm not just talking about Tantra or the Dallas, you know, virility monks. Um,
those things are sensors par excellence. They can transmit, they can receive the woman's vagina and
her womb are like the giant dish at Arecibo. Um, and the man's penis is like the literal antenna in
the center of that dish. Um, we are made for something for a broad array of experiences. We have
no idea exists and people make noises about this. They're like, Oh yeah, it's superstition. That
metaphysics stuff. I don't care what the fuck we call it. I just want us to have those experiences
again, explore them, discover them and figure out how we feel about them because you know, I'm tired of
having a hand, you know, a body, a spirit body that has like a sink, the tip of only the tip of the
pinky is allowed to be explored or enacted. Fuck that. So that's, that's, that's actually a similar
problem to what, what's pissing Amon off, right? He's like, they shut down huge parts of us and they
told us they were bad. Well, that's bad. Um, so yeah, when those guys start singing together,
they're doing a bunch of crazy magical stuff that turns them into one being together and their timing,
the synchronization, the tonal synchronization, the emotional synchronization, um, the vibrations
in their bodies that they're making with their vocal cords and their lungs and their bones, right?
Like their heart, all of the organs synchronize and nature's made of the synchronization. This,
this like commune, um, it's communism. No, uh, there it's made of, um, communion,
right? The, the localized reenaction of the memory of origin in this moment together.
I don't remember if it was, um, Ian McGilchrist who in his, his recent chats or, or somebody else,
maybe, I don't know, but, um, you know, reminded me of, um, I think a metaphor that you've used
quite a bit, Darren, which is the, uh, you know, the, the drum and the drumstick, right? Like the,
the drum head has, um, has a, a certain vaginal kind of sense to it, the hymen and whatnot.
The hymen. Yeah. This, okay. So I caught that for,
from some almonds crew. Um, God, what's his name? It'll come back to me. They have like a,
like a spiritual explorers club or something. Um, uh, it's the Canadian guy. God, I can't,
I always forget his name, but yeah, I caught that from them. Anyway, please continue.
And of course then there's the, you know, the, the touching of the drumstick, right? And it's,
it's not unlike the, uh, the blind couple with the staff and the rattle.
Right. It's just interesting. Um,
you know, the, in so many ways, the universe, um,
is somehow this broad field, of course, and we need an experiencer to touch it
for it to be known. But the, the thing that's, you know, I think really lovely about this metaphor
is just the way that the, the system has to be under a little bit of tension, right? You get,
you have to stretch the drum head just enough, but not too much. You know, if it's too loose,
of course, there's no sound. If it's too tight, it breaks and there's no sound.
You know, you have to tap it with the drumstick with just the right pressure. You know, if it's
too loose, there's no sound. If it's too tight, you break it. If it's sharp, it rips. Yeah. There's
this, uh, you know, the, the resonant, you know, the resonance of it comes from the, the coincidence
of opposites held in tension. Oh, beautiful. Yeah. Beautiful. Yeah. But, um, the sense that maybe
the universe is somehow that way. Well, okay, look, so you got time space, right? We don't know
what the fuck that is. And I think, I mean, I have crazy thoughts about what that stuff is,
but I was also raised by modern humans who think of space as mostly empty and shit like that.
Obviously it's not empty. It's filled with light, but, um, at the very least, and probably other things
we don't even have language about. So you got this time space stuff, but then you got really weird,
localized concretions like stars, right? And then, and then the stars get planets and some of those
planets come to life. And on those planets, you get physical beings, right? You get organisms,
which, you know, it's surprising to me that the humans are so stupid that they don't realize that
organisms means that they're organs in a single thing, or it implies that.
And then in those organisms, you get localized awareness, consciousness, measurement, thought,
communication, urges, urgencies, all these things that aren't things. Unfortunately, in English,
we are very poorly equipped to refer to the phenomena we participate in and bring forth.
So, you know, that's probably why McGilchrist called his second book, I think the matter with things.
So what I'm getting at, though, is like, if time space is something like pure, like the physical
reflection of pure undifferentiated potential, right? Like, like, something that can be that is
nothing, but can become all things, right? And then within that field, you get instances of
shit like galaxies and stars and nebula and fucking praying mantises and whales and raccoons and,
you know, the Amazon rainforest, rivers, mountains, you get all that stuff arising as an expression
of the potential of the field. Now, when we're do okay, when we're talking right now doing,
we're doing the drum thing, right? I make pulses and sound, your minds change, you react,
you may remember, you may forget, you're, you transform me. And then if we're lucky,
I take that gift with reverence and intelligence, not just intellect, intelligence. And then I give
you a gift back. And then basically, it's just like fucking Christmas, accepting consciousness,
we're doing in the mind space, what time space is doing with stars and galaxies and worlds and
shit, which is the only thing you can do. Because how could you be separate from all that? I'm gonna
get really excited now and just start raving like a maniac.
Yeah.
It's beautiful.
I usually experience spelling legalistically. So I sort of play with, I sort of play with words
in the same way that I played with Legos as a kid. So yeah, which is this incredibly,
I think, impoverished experience, as like Cornfed was describing.
Um, almost like Platonistic or Platonic, uh, which I think is sort of, yeah, continuous with like
syntax. So either way, whether, whether through spelling or through syntax, you know, we're basically
just sort of dealing with this abstract idea of space because we're concatenating or juxtaposing
certain elements like Legos, um, in a legalistic way, like in a law abiding way.
But I think if you go back to Mesopotamia or even to the, like, uh, you know, the ancient Hebrew or
Greek languages, um, spelling was, was a matter of combining certain kinds of energy. So in Hebrew
specifically, the letters I think actually function as these kinds of, uh, Solomonic seals,
they're like batteries that accumulate charge and you can combine them in certain ways that, um,
facilitate either a creative or a destructive act. So I think this is why in the Kabbalah,
um, the, uh, the use of language is tied to the imitation of the Demiurge or the imitation of
Yahweh, because through language, the magician can, can literally create or destroy, uh, phenomena in
the external world. Um, but I think Greek also has the same, the same structure, interestingly enough.
Like if you go back to, uh, Zosimos, he reveals how the vowels in Greek were originally tied to
the planetary, uh, like energies. So like in, in ancient, like in ancient Chaldean theurgy,
the animation of the statues, which were the gods themselves, uh, was really affected through the
descent of the divine light. So the statues needed to be consecrated by the magician through
this kind of process of drawing down, uh, astral forces. But I think Greek is doing the same thing
because in Greek, the vowels, I mean, there are seven vowels in Greek, which correspond to the
seven planetary spheres. So basically their, their language is, is intimately wedded to their understanding
of like the immortality of the soul and its ascent through these spheres or descent. So you can go
either way. Uh, so again, Hebrew is doing the same thing in terms of creation and destruction. It's
just these two, these two different directions. Um, so yeah, so that's, I think that's, that's,
that's a more refined understanding of spelling, but in the modern world, like we experience, or at least
I experience, uh, spelling and, and syntax as something like a system of laws or, uh, regulations. Like,
yeah, it's like, uh, yeah. So I hope that makes sense.
George, you, you're such a jewel. I don't even know what the fuck to do once you start speaking.
I loved your initial comment. Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. That was great. Right. I'm all like on the edge of enthusiastic orgasm and George comes
in and goes, yeah,
I had never encountered the vowels as planets.
Oh, really? That's so let's go further. Let's go further down that road. So I'm, I've got this book
here called the mystery of the seven vowels, which I just picked up by Jocelyn Goodwin. And, um, this
is something that toy maker, this book's full, full of music, uh, and craziness, but this is something
that toy maker pointed out to me at great length. I'm not going to go on, on a broad didactic to raid
here in case anybody's shrinking from the earphone. Um, I'm gonna say some simple things. Imagine the
difference. Okay. So I want you to imagine that the, the, um, the consonants are like, you know,
George was saying, I think of, of letters a bit like, I think of them a bit like Legos. Let me just
stutter some more. Um, so imagine that the consonants are like geometric objects
that can be put together in certain ways. And I'm doing it right now while I'm speaking. Um,
and that the vowels bring them to life. They are the spirit, the pneuma
the literally the, the breath, right? The breath without which there aren't,
there are no consonants, no breath, no consonants. So imagine the difference between a language
in which the vowels are given like English, right? We write the vowels in so that all words
are completely spelled. Now imagine the difference in your intelligence and consciousness
in, in how you will become inclined to think and see with your mind. Imagine the difference
between a language like English and one like Hebrew in which the vowels have to be supplied by a living
mind. So what you get are like these two, three, four, five consonants in a row. And then
you got to figure out what the vowels are. And you have to supply the vowels from a living mind. So that
that feature of possible languages, spelled languages, written languages is so profound because
you're going to get smarter every time you read that language than you would with a language where
the vowels are supplied. And it's, it's, it's just like, I don't want to wax theological here. But it's
like the gods touching matter, and it changing shape. It's the same principle. It's the same principle
we were talking about, about time, space, and the stars, the same principle of like, you hearing my
words, and, and me hearing your words, and in structuring my awareness, the gift that we give
each other that we then reforge and give back. And, and, you know, ah, there's so much here. Um,
when humans are together in a group, and they're with integrity and sincerity and passion and joy and
playfulness, they're chasing insight, and memory, and learning together, which is one of the reasons
why I show up here every Sunday. Um, something truly amazing happens, like a bunch of amazing
shit happens, shit, we don't even have language for. And as long as nobody dominates, uh,
and you know, some kind, sometimes we may want to be dominated by one of them, not dominated, but we may
be willing to just be subjected to someone for a time. But when, when the spirit of orchestral
intelligence starts pulsing in the between of us, then we're basically we're making a vehicle
of that, you know, UFOs are boring compared to that vehicle. That's what we're made. That's what
we're for. In my perspective, that's what I would suggest we've lost mostly in our common human
experience, though, there's lots of relatively modest examples of people doing this together,
even if they just come together around dinner table. Yeah, we were made for kinds of travel,
travel in awareness and time, space and relation that make space travel look boring, telling you it's
boring. Um, we have the capacity to bring time space inside us. Right? We don't have to go out there
to reach other worlds, we can become those other worlds together. And when those guys were singing
that song, like corn fed was talking about, they were doing that, whether or not they had that intention
or thought, right? Think about the difference between thinking about kissing and actually kissing
someone. This is the difference I'm talking about. Yeah, I'm reminded of so much. And I really like,
um, beautiful. That's exactly the right thing to say. Keep going. You know, it's, um,
yeah, it's, it's many things. You said the intention or thought. And I, I love that. I want to hone in on
that a little bit. Let's go. You know, I think of, um, well, I, I'm often tempted to understand a thing,
but by, by its inverse, by flipping it, you know, and, and you've, um, you've really described,
I think very accurately. And, and so has George in the legalistic approach, like the, um,
you know, the dissection of the, the psychological commons, the, the commons of our shared experience,
right? Like to, to throw down a dictionary and to define words and to search for those words
is the dissection of the meaning, the, the parting of it all, you know, the pinning it down.
Yeah. That's the clinical, that's the clinical tool, um, like aspect. Please keep going.
Yeah. And this is a, you know, it reminds me of a theme, you know, I mentioned in a couple of
meetings just for fun. I think it's apropos here too, is the idea that the scientist describes a simple
thing in very complex, replete terms. And the wise person describes the complex thing in very simple
understood. Familiar, familiar terms. Yeah. Familiar to experience.
It, it, it resonates, you know, and, um, you know, so there's this idea of the intent and I, I totally
take your meaning very, you know, um, very well understood, but like, yeah, the idea that, uh, these
people, they would wake up and be like, okay, I'm going to start singing now because I think it is time
for the rest of these people and me to go harvest.
That that's not the reality from which they emerged. Fuck no.
You know, the reality from which they emerged, like the idea of them having an intent, you know,
is really, it's kind of silly because since time immemorial, all of their ancestors, all of the
heavens, this is the harmony of being. Yeah. They're dancing together. They're dancing together. Yeah.
And what's interesting is the way, like you said, space time or their culture, or if we were to
dissect any part of this, you know, what, what we might notice is the way each of these parts reflect
their greater whole, the root from which they came. It's just a, it's, it's one continuous motion
represented in each of these parts that we particularize in our analysis of it.
You know, through that active dissection. And so it's really interesting to me that, you know,
in every way they're singing their harvest, their way of being in the heavens is like, you know,
it's zippers the zipper, you know, and at some point, somehow, uh, this society that we are,
you know, that we inherited, it's really interesting that at some point they pushed down and decided
that what we're going to do instead is unzipper the zipper. Yeah. And we're going to take the zipper
apart. And we're going to talk, we're going to talk at length about each of those little teeth,
as if they're a separate, really important thing. Right? Like, yeah,
unravelled the scarf, you know, yeah, this is all about. Yeah, stop talking. This is Darren stage.
Yeah, the ego.
Yeah, no, this is about me, man. It's my trauma, my, my fucking insecurities, the bad things that
happened to me, the bad things in the culture, right? It's no, shut up.
Yeah. It's just astounding. But I think, you know, I think that we're very vulnerable to it,
you know, given our traumas and our, our histories and our situations. And I think that's interesting.
And I also think though, that there's some kind of, um, there's an effort there that I think is more
than just happenstance because organisms organize themselves. So why are we on the unraveling of it?
That's really fascinating to me.
Oh, man. Okay, you're doing the beautiful thing. Just like you always do. Doing the beautiful thing
you're making. I give you some materials, then you make something really beautiful. And you give it
back to the, to the group, to all of us to the, the unity of us, the communion of us together here now.
And then like, I just, I was like, Oh my God. You know, my mind is swimming in wonder once more,
which is where she wants to swim. So let me say a couple other things about vowels.
The space between the teeth and the zipper, right? And the fabric that holds them in alignment
together. When those men are singing in that ship, are they in a ship in your story?
Well, they're not singing in the ship when they're there. They're on shore with the natives. Yeah.
Oh, right. That's the irony. That's even better. Yeah. I mean, in a way. Okay, yeah,
there's all kinds of shit here. I'm just gonna really briefly say that it's not accidental that
ships are referred to as female. All right, we call them she and they're filled with semen.
What do we call those guys that run the ships for most of human history? It was, you know,
there were exceptions, but most of human history was men, the ship was the vessel was female was
womb, like it's vaginal, right? And the men fill it up. And they, they, they, they preserve the ship.
They're the protector of the ship. Right? They protect the feminine intelligence,
which is delicate in its way, but also profound. So back to the zipper.
Let's replace the word God for a minute with a phrase and feel free to like improve on my,
you know, stupidity here. I'm going to call it
beingness in complex musical intimacy.
Okay. That's what that zipper thing is the representation of.
And in my conversation with George last night, I was saying something,
which is that humans are incapable of inventing anything. They don't make anything up. What they
do is they reiterate principles. And when they're aware of this, that becomes beautiful. And when they
forget that and they think, nah, nah, it's me making sure I'm the one who's, you know, I'm doing it.
There's something to that too. I don't want to dismiss that. But when we get very egoic and personal,
that way we're losing the rhythm, we're up the synchronization.
So the zipper is like the thing that does the zip thing and unzipping that's like beingness
in complex musical intimacy. It organizes and synchronizes and unifies and remembers and resurrects
and communionates and an amnesis is getting really weird here. But so just one really ridiculous thing
at the end of that long tirade. If L E L L a word that was often used to refer to God, a sound that was
used to refer to God. L. If that's beingness in complex musical intimacy, then the vow we make
to remember that is the vow L L. The vowel.
When we sing together like this, we are reenacting the purposes of our origin as beings.
I know this is sounding religious. I'm wondering what the hell JD might be thinking over there.
He's like, these guys just being a bunch of crazy religious people. But I don't know what he's
thinking, if he's even here. And I'd love to hear what's going on in that mind.
Yeah, when we do this, we're, we're resurrecting each other's capacities for,
for using consciousness in a way that most of us moderns just we don't do anymore. And this is
kind of the opposite of doomerism, isn't it? We're not just, you know, marching around about the doom,
the doom, the doom, it's coming, it's coming. We're doing the other thing. And I think that's
the right answer to the problem. Or a good one, a beautiful one, one I trust.
Maybe the right answer to all the problems.
There's a time for the mechanical rhythms of martial war drums.
But when that's the only rhythm going on, maybe it's time for some of the other ones.
Yeah, I think David Icke actually wrote a book called The Answer, which is kind of funny.
I like to pronounce his name ick, or even icky. But I'm not saying there's no wisdom there. There's,
there's lots of crazy wisdom there. That's a maniac. Right. But yeah, keep tell us more.
Oh, well, I mean, yeah, recently, I was just delving into the connection between Paul and
Valentinianism or Gnosticism, as you know. So, and that was, yeah, intersecting with my general
interest in Amon Hillman and his perspective. So. You have an interest in Amon Hillman?
A general interest in his perspective. Yeah. Okay. Okay.
Now you were waxing flamboyant last night about these topics. Let's go.
Yeah. So actually in the book of Acts, Paul purportedly claimed that there was a God
among the Greeks known as the unknown God, which he actually claimed was, was God, the father. So
I find this really fascinating because in, in Valentinianism, there's a, there's a document
called the gospel of truth, which also likens God, the father to this unknown,
ineffable entity. It's like apophatic theology.
So I just find Amon Hillman interesting because of his rejection of Paul, like categorically.
Um, I think he, he might be making a mistake because I mean, Paul was a Greek. I mean, he was,
he, I think he was doing something much more interesting than, than Yahwism.
Um, yeah, we got to get you, we got to get you talking with Amon, right? Next time I want to have
a round, a little bit of a round table, at least you, if he'd be willing to speak. Oh, willing. Are
you kidding? No, no, no, no, no, no. This would be great. You're really onto something. So, but look,
um, can you see how, uh, Amon's power, he's got like a trident. It's not just a one barbed weapon
because when he pokes shit, it causes us to react. It's just this, he's doing the same damn thing,
right? He's getting the chorus together, the Quora and, and he's yelling at him and he's getting them
all riled up. And then when they're all riled up, they wake the fuck out of the dead left sleep of
Lefe, Lefe, Lefe. I don't know how to say it. Uh, the root of the word lethal, right? Which literally
means for actually literally is the wrong word, which has the connotation of forgetting. Um, so yeah,
he gets them all riled up and me too. And I'm like, wait, you said what, what? Right? So then I, I,
I forge there's different ways to give the gift, right? You can wake people up in such a way.
I can imagine like a comedian who's just despised, right? The only thing he just says things that
make people really, really angry, right? But then by, by making them really angry,
it, it, he pushes them so far into anger that they fall off the cliff into laughter.
You see where I'm going with this? Yeah. Yeah. That's why I love him.
Yeah. So, so like, this is the important thing about reading people you disagree with, or,
you know, going to a restaurant that has one of the worst foods that you can imagine,
but also has one of your favorite foods, right? We seem to think like, oh, you know, good and bad.
Those are formally distinct categories. Whoops. I mean, my dad was a, you know, he's,
it wasn't really a jeweler, although he did make some jewelry. He was a salesman. He sold jewelry
when I was younger. And I personally, I kind of detest gold. I'm all about silver and platinum.
But, and diamonds are gaudy. I mean, I get the shiny thing part. I get that. But I never really
understood diamonds. I was like, well, what? Give me a star sapphire or an emerald or something,
right? Like I'm all in on that. But, um, my point is my point. Okay. If you want to show someone a
diamond, what you do is you put it on black velvet and then you shine a light on a diamond. And then
it just sparkles like mad. Right. And this is a metaphor for our consciousness too, a really powerful
one. Um, by producing these gifts that we toss into the center of our circle together
and inflame our, our awareness and our wonder and our minds together for each other. Right.
We're doing this crazy thing. And so one of the things I love is that George listens to Hillman.
And I was like, why is he fucking dismissing Paul? Does he even, is he, is that guy nuts?
Like he's throwing the, he's throwing the bathtub out with the baby.
Because Paul was probably saying and pointing at something that Hillman might actually find
true and fascinating and beautiful.
But maybe Hillman's just like, ah, Paul guy. Yeah. Fuck that guy. You know?
So then that leads George to a cascade. Like George climbs up a mountain of objections
and then falls down into a cascade of insights on the other side.
Right?
Yeah, that's exactly it. Yeah.
Yeah. Beautiful. Yeah. Right. And that's what happens to me. Right? I meet somebody and I'm like,
that fucking idiot. What he said, what? And then I write a 19 page essay. You know,
that never would have happened if he didn't poke me with that barb. So one of the barbs on Hillman's
trident is, you know, he'd love this. He's like, Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Like the devil with trident.
Yeah. Right. Right. Is that he's so severe in his scathing, excruciating criticisms of Christianity.
He just goes as far as you can possibly go. Right. Jesus was using children as drugs.
Right. It's like it's as far as you could possibly take it. Right. And he could take it farther. But,
you know, people would hunt him down and exterminate him and stuff. He doesn't want to go there.
But, um, by doing that, he's, he's both poking it at a lie. Right. And he might even be using a lie
to poke at a lie. Right. You don't have to use the truth. Truth and insight have a weird relationship.
Um, there's different kinds of lying, it turns out. And some of those kinds are among the most
beautiful possibilities of human intelligence, awareness, uh, relational wonder play learning
discovery. So it's, there's this idea that the good is the good and the bad is the bad. There's a place
for that. Um, but it's, we should be cautious about letting it become too pervasive. George, go
give me the shit I need. Come on, man. I'm fucking, I'm, I'm jonesing over here, dude. I'm smacking my,
my vein on my, on my inner elbow. I got the tourniquet on. Give me some juice.
I'm not sure how to follow that up, but wherever you go is going to be perfect. Just go. Um,
yeah. So, I mean, I'm just thinking about Paul. I mean, that's sort of what I've been doing for the
past week. Yeah. It's pretty clear that Paul is drawn from Genesis. Okay. So Paul is simultaneously
rejecting the platonic idea of the disembodied soul and rejecting this kind of this common, uh,
evangelical belief in a bodily resurrection. So the, the resurrection or the reanimation of the
mortal body of Jesus wouldn't have mattered to Paul. He wouldn't have cared about that,
right? He wouldn't have cared about the resuscitation of a corpse like Frankenstein.
That's not what he's talking about. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. No, Paul talks about resurrection.
I just got to interrupt you briefly. Paul's like, you guys really could become really
concerned about the fact that water is wet. Go keep going.
Yeah. Yeah. So Paul actually likens Christ to a second Adam. So a heavenly Adam, a new spiritual
being, which serves as the template or the archetype for other spiritual beings to come, uh, to come
about. Right. So I think Paul was really sort of preaching that there was a new class or a new
rank of entity in the cosmos, which Christ made possible. Um, but his connection to Valentinianism
is also really of interest to me because I think Paul was probably the father of Gnosticism like
Simon Magus. So he was the, he was basically the father of all heresies, even though the Catholic
church cites Paul as like one of their, one of their authorities, but like in, in the Catholic church,
you know, the authority of the Pope is, is supposedly tied to Peter, which I think was
probably a fourth century invention. Like that, that doesn't go back even to the second century
when the Bible was, was compiled. Um, but it's really fascinating because you can see in like
Galatians, how Paul was already distancing himself from the apostles. Like, um, you know, Paul only met,
I think he only met Peter like, uh, twice. So he, well, he met Peter seven years after Jesus died.
Right. But then he spent, I think another 10 years, uh, preaching before he met any of the other
apostles. So virtually none of the teachings that Paul preached came from the apostles and he makes
that very clear in Galatians. So, so basically the gospel that we, you know, attribute to the Bible
is entirely Pauline in origin. It has nothing to do with the people who knew Jesus. Okay. Um, so it's,
it's, I think that's worth understanding because, because the Pauline letters are the oldest documents
in the Bible in the new Testament. Um, so, you know, the synoptic authors like Luke,
it seems we're incredibly sympathetic to Paul, but they were trying to sanitize his message.
They were basically trying to, um, like they were trying to invent this historical personage
of Jesus, like this character in order to like develop a polemic against Marcion, who was a Gnostic,
really a Pauline figure in the second century. Um, so yeah. So given that like the Valentinians,
uh, actually claimed apostolic succession by asserting that their teachings came from a secret
oral tradition that Paul transmitted to some of his like direct disciples, like, uh, Teudas, this, um,
uh, this, uh, initiate, this Valentinian initiate, the connection to Gnosticism becomes much more clear.
So yeah, I basically think that, that Gnosticism was a Pauline branch of Christianity,
which represents the most like primitive form of what we call Christianity. But like the, the,
modern sort of church is like, uh, is, is a response to the threat of Marcion or Marcionism,
which was a dualist sect. It was a Gnostic sect. So, but I think that's what Paul was basically
preaching. He was basically saying that there were two, there were two gods in effect. So yeah,
there was the God of the old Testament and the God of the new Testament, right? Um, and that's why
Paul says that like, you know, where there is no law, there is no transgression. I think he says that
in, I think it's first Corinthians or Romans. I think it's, no, it's first Corinthians. So when Paul
talks about the elect, like the true Christians, like the pneumatic Christians in opposition to the
commoner, like the, the everyday Christian, the pneumatic Christian, um, the elect are really exempt
from the law of the Demiurge. So the elect can participate in all sorts of acts like sexual
acts or magical acts. I think, I think, I think Christianity was actually a magical practice of
some kind. Like Paul was a magician and he was, he was, he was, he was teaching people how to, how to
engage in a kind of theurgic rite, which was both the baptism and the Lord's supper. It's a kind of,
it's a magical operation that draws down this life giving spirit called Christ.
So yeah, he, like basically Paul was making sense of this being called Christ as a life giving
spirit with reference to Adam in Genesis. So basically Christ serves as this kind of material,
it's a kind of ground, like an ontological ground in which the elect can enter in order to acquire
these new bodies. That's basically what he was saying. So he wasn't, he wasn't teaching Platonism,
because in Platonism essentially the soul sheds the mortal body and then ascends through the
planetary spheres into this disembodied or naked state as Paul describes it. But Paul didn't think
that the soul should be or ever would be truly naked. So, so resurrection is a matter of re-clothing
the soul. It's a matter of re-incorporation, sort of like reincarnation, but the matter of the new body
is grounded in this other entity that he calls Christ. So it's, yeah, it's, it's really like a,
it's, it's really like a, a, a family tree of spiritual beings. That's what Paul is talking about. So
Jesus isn't God. Okay. Jesus isn't supposed to be worshiped as a God, but that's pretty clear.
And that's a pretty radical statement. Like, but I think, I think it's probably what Paul was saying.
Oh, George, how dare you? You've deflowered me, bro. I'm like sitting here like a virgin in a van
full of drunken teenagers. What happened? What did you do to me? Oh God.
Like the Valentinians actually taught that Christ died in order to restore Sophia, which is this,
really this like a divine mother entity. So by the way, that's the identity of Hillman's dead girl.
Yeah. Well, exactly. This is what I'm trying to get at. Like when I, when I listened to Almond Hillman,
I'm, I'm sort of reminded of these things. Um, no, keep going though. I didn't mean to interrupt,
please give us the nectar.
Yeah. So, you know, the Valentinians claim that, um, the cross symbolizes both the fall and the
restoration of Sophia, which the death of Christ, uh, makes possible. So the death of Christ restores
this fallen being from the pleroma called Sophia, which means wisdom. So when Paul talks about wisdom,
the word that he's using is Sophia, it's in, it's in the new Testament. Um, and of course,
the word pleroma also occurs in the new Testament, but it's usually translated as fulfillment,
but it really means like divine fullness, uh, or the pleroma in the Gnostic kind of tradition.
Um, but also the Valentinians interpreted the, uh, the communion as a kind of, uh,
remembrance or a kind of memorial of the suffering of the divine mother.
So the ingestion of the wine in this particular Gnostics, menstrual blood.
Oh yeah, exactly. So yeah, this is what I'm in home and is going on about like,
yeah, yeah, yeah.
No, he knows, he, he knows P no, he knows pieces of this for sure. I mean, be so trippy if you were
here, this is why we gotta, we gotta have, yeah, we gotta have, uh, a day new mom. Oh man, this is
just gorgeous. So let's be really clear. Oh, I hate, sorry. I'm having a problem with my brain.
Um, there's four forces fighting in my mind.
So for people who are Hillman nights, right. And they think that, you know, they think Jesus was
kind of a jerk and bad guy doing weird things with kids and drugs and whatever.
Um, they're overlooking something really important. And the face of modern Christian Christianity is
pretty much the inverse of all of the things that we might actually, as George has so brilliantly
illuminated to our awareness that we might actually explore and remember and benefit from together.
The idea that Christ wanted to be worshiped
the idea that we might be worshiped or thought should be thought of as a sub, as an object of worship
is weird. Because if I love you, what I want is your liberation.
I want your an amnesis. I want your ecstasis. I want you to be free of whatever might trap or
imprison or harm you. And if I love you, it would be very strange for me to say, Hey, man,
um, yeah, I want you to just kind of get down on your knees and pray
to me because I'm the thing. I'm the sun. I'm the reason of your existence.
There might be a low road where that works, but the high road is transmission.
Like what kind of like what we're doing here and communion and resurrection and amnesis.
So this idea that again, there might be a low road where worship works
in, in Hinduism, for example, there, I think three primary paths. I don't know the words for them,
but one is, um, devotion. One is intellect. And one is, I think maybe day on our meditation,
right? Like, um, awareness that deepening awareness. I may have the third one wrong.
Um, so I don't want to throw anyone's path away, but worship is kind of weird.
And in my own experience, um, when I asked questions about Christ, which Hillman uses
this word in a very narrow and specific way, it means to anoint with intoxicants
around the eyes, around the mouth, uh, other orifices could become involved.
So for him, this word doesn't really refer to the kinds of things we're using it to refer to here
and which George's brilliant elocution on Pauline theurgy highlights, um, rightfully, I would,
I would suggest. And it would also probably not occur to many people that
gosh, there's something on the tip of my mind, but it's hard to formulate.
It's the same thing as the barbs. If you're oriented to insight and
unforgetting and resurrection and communion and love, then nothing can really hurt you because the
barb, the sting of the barb is illusory. It will drive you nonetheless toward insight and liberation.
So what I'm trying to say is
the overt rejection of the Christian narrative is both important and confused.
what we want is a deeper nuanced look into the origins and the competing branches on the trees
of the polemics and the politics and the, the processes that homogenized and produced this kind of,
you know, spam version like spam is in the canned non non actual food product.
We want to look into the beginnings that led it's, it's like when I was talking with George earlier,
there are aspects of ourselves that can become panic stricken in it. It's like
inside us. It's like a horse has just gone nuts, frothing, sweaty, it's running.
And what we want to do, we don't want to attack the horse or punish the horse or anything like that.
We want to find out where did it come from? Why did it start running? And where is it going?
And so when we think about Christianity or Christ or what this might or could mean,
or we think about the feminine, Sophia, Eros,
Inanna,
Astraea,
Lucifer,
which probably was female,
is female or can be understood in that way.
We have to, we don't have to, we would be wise to reserve our judgments
and carefully filter the homogenized
sludge that we received from, you know, for example, modern Christianity and some branches of Islam
and some, even some branches of other monotheistic religions. We don't want to just throw that thing
out. We don't want to throw the bathtub out. That's not the right move. Although it's useful to do that
because it leads to this.
we want to sift through that and find the seeds that are glowing in there. And one of the things
that I was shown when I asked about Jesus, when there was another mind that wasn't human with mine,
is that Jesus was essentially an alarm clock. It wasn't Jesus that was in particularly important.
What that was announcing was a transformation locally of the potentials for human existence.
And Jesus can be usefully understood as the announcement of a transformation,
a new way that we can be, if we should so desire to enjoy liberty and an amnesis, right? Unforgetting,
not liberty as much as liberation. And liberation isn't the thing we're like,
Oh, you cut the chain. Now you're free. It's not that. That's not liberty. Liberty
is the freedom to develop new degrees of liberty, right? New ways of being free. That's what liberty
is. Liberty isn't the it's like intelligence, right? It's not like you're smart. And you're like,
Oh, yeah, I'm smart. Now I'm done. If you're in a prison, and they let you out of the cage,
right? All that's really happened is the extreme imposition of
Oh, God, I'm at a loss for a word. The extreme imposition of impediments to your liberty has been
removed. But when you get out of the prison, and you're standing in the parking lot, you're still in
a prison. Right? It's just, it's not quite as extreme as the last one. And if you go from there
to the church, you're still in a prison, it's a different kind of prison. If you go to the library,
there's new degrees of liberty in there for your mind. But if you don't read, it doesn't even make
sense. So there's all these sort of little prisoner in features of our common human experience.
Liberty is to be on to be released
from the mode of awareness, relation and behavior that inhibits your nature and potential,
your origin, your being.
I'll stop there and hope somebody else is going to sing, sing.
Oh, I love it. I'm reminded of Cool Hand Luke. You know, it's really,
that's so funny.
Yeah, right.
He, it's fascinating to think about like the, you know, the prison that you're talking about,
I think is even more so it acts in a way to crush any new emergence of liberty. It regressively,
you know, actively crushes any, any little bud that might flower because in Cool Hand Luke,
it's, it's fascinating because this free spirit gets sent to these broken people
and just emerging from him like a font, you know, like a, like just the water of life bubbling somehow
from a spring, he inspires them. And that, that is dangerous to the prison. You know, like every,
every way in which, uh, his natural creativity kind of springs up and inspires, that is
an enormous threat to the system that seeks to crush that. So then of course the tension is set.
He understands living is this act of creation, this act of, um, spreading enthusiasm of some sort,
of encouraging others to find their own act of creation. And then of course the prison is trying
to crush that in every way it can. Um, I think that there's a lot of beauty in that.
I think that I, I think is related that I wanted to just briefly get back to that I think is really
fascinating again, regards the history of Christianity. Um, so this might be a little
bit of a, a walk to get to where I'm going with this, but I'll try to go fast. The, I was watching
Amon Hillman one time, a long time ago, and he mentioned this guy, the Gnostic informant.
Um, so yeah, I went over there and watched a video too and was impressed. So I kind of got
in that thread and, you know, it just kind of sat in my queue for whatever, uh, you know,
six months or a year or whatever. And he had this interview, he's done many of them with this guy,
John Dominic Crossan and, um, you know, uh, uh, uh, Christianity, a scholar of Christianity is
probably a good way to say it. Um, but you know, man, I just, my heart just leaps with joy and, and,
you know, I get a little weak in the knees when people just, you know, casually just rattle off
wisdom that, you know, like kind of as an aside, just over and over, you know, so fast, I can't
even write them down. It's, it just blows my, I love it. You know? Yeah. I mean, welcome to George's
mind. Keep going. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's why I'm here. You know, everybody. Yeah. Yeah. Everybody.
I agree. Yeah. Um, and okay. So he said this thing just in passing, just kind of under his breath,
you know, and then moved on to elaborate, you know, beyond anything I understood at that point
anyway, but this thing he said in passing, I thought was really interesting. And I wonder
if it reflects back to this conversation, you know, I, your comments are very well received,
you know, Jesus wasn't, yeah, it's absurd. Like, how is this guy who's like, you know, uh, curing the
lepers and, and feeding the starving, like, Oh, bow down before me. It's, it's just insane.
You know, it's totally, it's really weird. Um, and we've talked a lot about gobleki tepi and about
the way that, um, we're, we're, um, uh, probably meant to be, you know, uh, the way we were at least
we've talked about these things. No, it's like a Barbra Streisand song. I love it. Yeah, go.
Um, so I'm going to, I'm going to say what John Dominic Crossan said real fast. Uh, you know,
I'm going to say that in just a minute, but I want to do a caveat just real quick. Cause it,
it involves the word orgasms, you know, and the, the, what he meant by this is not just so simple
and pure aisle, like, you know, just orgasms. Um, what he means is this ecstatic nature of being
this, you know, how do you, how do you find, how do you fill the container of the potential
of what it is to be living? Yeah. So there's this, and you know, the container that's even the wrong
word, right? Like you blow the fucking walls off that thing, you know, like, how do you,
how do you most embody the most real aliveness that a person could, the ecstasy of being,
you know? Yes. So, and I'm in Hillman, you know, I think is very familiar with all, you know,
so there's go blacky Tappy and there's whatever the hell people were doing before Christianity. I don't
mean that to be diminutive. I mean, this is really interesting to me. So John Dominic Crossan said,
um, that this transition was, well, we had systems of orgasms and that transition to systems of
transcending and wow. Yeah. So in, in go, in go, you could imagine a whole cosmology, you know, a whole
institutions, Napa, a whole orientation, a whole worldview around feeling alive and ecstatic in
orgiastic way, you know, and undoubtedly there were temples and, uh, exp, you know, what, you know,
by the way, can I sit around very briefly? Yeah.
Yeah. Watch little kids playing. What the fuck is going on there? It is ecstasy,
right? They're like, we're alive. Forget everything. Remember everything go, right?
There's no, it doesn't, they don't have to rub their flowers together to have orgasms. They,
they have orgasms all day long. They're, they're dreaming while they're awake.
Right. And I don't mean orgasms as in, you know, the, the stimulation of the genitals of humans.
I mean, orgasms as ecstatic jailbreaking. Keep going. I'm with you.
Yeah. I remember, um, it was in the depths of working 80 hours a week and politics when I was
in my mid twenties and we just broke one day for like a game of flag football on a Sunday in the
middle of work or whatever. And just the, the running and the chasing, I just couldn't stop from
laughing ecstatically. Yeah. I would, you know, that I was like, oh, that's, that's what we're
supposed to be doing. Not in a dungeon slaving over arcane writing, you know? Right.
About the weirdest possible, you know, branch of human failed attempts at communal intelligence.
Yeah. Surreal representation stacked upon surreal representation.
Yeah, yeah, exactly. Like Dolly was boring compared to the surrealism of this crap.
I just want to say something briefly before I forget, because it's, it's kind of the culmination
of what I was trying to say. Don't let Christians tell you what Christ was.
And don't let Amon Hillman tell you what Christ means.
Don't let either the pro or the absolute con be the arbiters of your sensitivity and your intelligence
and your wonder and your awe. Um, I think that what Hillman's doing is radical and amazing and
important. It's very dangerous and provocative. Uh, sometimes it's a little bit juvenile, but he
doesn't give a shit about that. He's like, ah, man, let's go. Um, but what I'm trying to get at is
the Christians are not the arbiters of the identity of what
was going on and what could be going on and whether Christ existed or not, it almost doesn't matter.
Right. It was Christ an actual human being, right? This is the question. Well, did he actually live?
It almost doesn't matter because the humans have gone nine kinds of insane in the aftermath of that
idea, whether or not Christ existed. So is there a real living doorway there? That's the question.
Have the Christians got it wrong? Almost certainly. Have they got it entirely wrong? That's probably
impossible, right? Have the Satanists got it right? Similar problem. It's not, which sword do I wield?
That's not the question. It's a question of what are you going to do with your hand? Does that make any sense?
I think so. You know, the, the hand pointing at the moon is not the moon. And the, the way I would
describe it though too, is that the tension, you know, never the words, never the litter, literal
meaning. The tension is where the interesting parts are. That's where the truth is.
Okay. When I was talking about, when I was saying, what are you going to do with your hand? I'm asking
a more, a kind of, this isn't a criticism about what you said. Oh, sure.
Um, I'm asking, like you have this impossible thing and this is actually crucially important.
This is something I sing about a lot, but this one thing you've got is these hands. And while you're
a physical being just under star hand me, when I say that even gods and angels don't have hands,
they have hands to the degree that humans have them. We are their hands in physical matter.
That thing at the end of your wrist, that bizarre, more than science fiction anomaly. I mean, UFOs
aren't as interesting as that thing. If you really, you know, pay attention to, to, to precedent,
right. What comes before what comes first. Um, so with the hand of your intelligence, with the hand of
your mind, what will you reach for? If you reach for affirmation or negation, you, you have learned
to do that by being in language and inculturated among the humans, but there are 19 other ways to
use that hand. That's what I'm trying to say. Like have some awareness of the field, the possibility
space of the hand of, of your, your awareness, your consciousness, your intelligence, and don't fall
for simple gambits that bait you into adoration or, um, despising.
What, uh, what a remarkable manifestation or realization of the symmetries of the universe is.
Yes. Yes. It's, uh, you know, and it's only what it is because it's connected to all the other things
that, you know, whatever, you know, it's, or even the wrong way to think of it, of course, but.
No, no, that's fine. Um, yeah, you got it right. Like when you look at your hand, I want you to think
all the way back to what humans call the big bang and realize that the big bang, it had a hard on
to produce animals that could have hands and it knew it would take a while or whatever.
But yeah, that the human hand is one of the absolute miraculous marbles and the thing inside us that the
hand is, uh, is the physicalization of, and, and the aspect of ourselves that, um, uh, inspires the use
of our hands, right? That's where the treasure is, right? It's similar with our mouths and speech.
You know, speech is really a kind of a hand in sound with which we in structure the minds of our
companions and hopefully enemies.
What would you draw your friends apart from, you know, if it weren't otherwise?
So this, that was a really complex elocution. Can you just say that again?
Sure. It's the tension, right? It's the, no, no, no, no, no, no. Say what you said one more time.
My, um, you said, you know, our friends and hopefully enemies, right? And I, I take your
meaning. It's appreciated in the sense that, um, what else would you draw your friends apart from
if not the otherwise, you know, the, the things that are not your friends.
Jesus, you're just making magic over there. What the fuck are you saying?
Well, come on. I mean, what else would you draw your friends apart from?
If you call them a friend, right? You've crystallized this definition of this thing.
It, it stands out as a friend because there are the not friends. That's the beauty of it.
And wow, you need the not friends in order to have the friends.
Yeah. Yeah. That's, that's what I was saying about the swords, right? Do you raise the sword?
Say you raise a sword of I'm a Satanist, right? Or you raise a sword of I'm a Christian.
There are no incidents of opposites.
Yeah. You can't have, you know, it's just like what I was talking about with the diamond
on the black velvet, right? You want to see the diamond? Put it on its opposite. Put it on nothingness.
Put it on that which absorbs light.
So, John Dominic Crossan said, we had systems of orgies. So, you know, in the eons before,
you know, Christian, before BCE and AD, you know, humanity was cultivating whatever they were. He,
in John Dominic Crossan's words, systems of orgies, you know, and again, not diminutive, orgiastic
experience. And again, the play of children is orgiastic in this, in the sense of ecstasy.
Yeah. And then a thing happens. And this is interesting. Yeah, right? The plot thickens.
Then came in systems of transcending. So, you know, so what? And, you know, I'd love it. Anyone
and everyone's thoughts on this? Because, man, my curiosity doesn't seem to know any bounds.
So, transcending. Okay. So, Christianity is, you know, in its best forms, agopic love. The love and
cultivation that allows for becoming, you know? And holy cow, Amon Hillman knows, as I think we all do,
somewhere that took a wrong turn at Albuquerque, at least, at minimum, you know?
Yep. Got Bugs Bunny-ized, yeah.
But is the problem in its own beginning, like, transcending into what from what? Or is just
drawing that tension, you know, is the creation of that tension the problem itself? Is it just myopic
and its inability to understand? Or are we going somewhere?
I don't know. I don't know. I'm curious to see if that stirs any thoughts.
And by we, I mean we. You know, although this is our heritage that we've been inculcated with, you know?
But, you know, of course, use generous interpretations of these complicated words.
Hmm. George.
I need your voice, Sane.
Yeah, I mean, I suspect that there was a link between tattooing and
rock art in the Stone Age.
So, essentially, men during the Stone Age would tattoo their genitals with certain forms,
including animal forms, that reappeared in their rock art.
So, the cave, I think, would have been likened to a kind of vagina, a kind of
matrix womb.
Yeah.
Yeah.
The womb of the Earth Mother, right?
And, yeah, I find this connection between, like, genital tattooing and entering
the tuluric womb pretty fascinating because the same complex, I think, can be seen at the dawn of
agriculture because the cultivation of bread or the domestication of wheat
and farming and therefore sedentism were sort of part of this broader
complex of, like, erotic
symbolism or, like, a more, like, erotic participatory cosmology.
It might have even been hyperstition rather than symbolism, but keep going.
Yeah, yeah.
Right?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
So, yeah, I came across some, like, really fascinating, like, spear throwers.
You can find, like, evidence of, like, spear throwers with phallic symbolism or phallic depictions
in, like, in the Paleolithic era, right?
So, you can imagine what it must have been like to be a Stone Age man.
Like, basically, your dick would have been tattooed with some kind of animal form,
some kind of totem, and you would have been carrying around this massive, like,
yeah, phallic object.
It's pretty bizarre.
But you can see the transition to agriculture in terms of the symbolism within those caves, I think.
So, the coupling of the horse and the bison, I think, was transformed into the hoe and the sickle
as a kind of, like, fundamental dualism between sex and death.
So, it's a kind of erotic narrative that involves birth, fertility, and death as a kind of continuous
cycle. But because, as I mentioned last time, the consumption of bread is sort of, like, naively
a waste of time from the standpoint of a hunter-gatherer,
I think it only makes sense to interpret the domestication of wheat as a kind of ritual offering.
So, it was probably bound up with this concept of perhaps at some level becoming one with the cosmos,
almost like what you see in Christianity.
Because even today, like, Catholics essentially worship a bread cookie.
If you attend Catholic Mass, the Eucharist is a piece of bread, which has been consecrated with
some kind of ritual. So, there's this ritual involving bells, where the tinkling of the bells
coincides with the transubstantiation of this piece of bread, which is then put within this
miniature temple called the Tabernacle.
Does sourdough rise after three days also?
Right. Yeah, but I think Gobekli Tepe, the temple complex at Gobekli Tepe probably served a similar
function. So, the people who inhabited or built Gobekli Tepe domesticated wheat and probably used
that temple complex as a kind of vessel for offering this product. Because, again, bread has a negative
energy return on investment. So, it actually takes more calories to produce than it provides.
So, it makes sense to trade it, but I think before it was traded economically, it was a kind of
symbol, or it was a kind of vessel, if that makes any sense, right?
Because it's a kind of life-giving energy. So, it's a kind of representation of cosmic knowledge,
because it takes cosmic knowledge, it takes knowledge of the cycles, or the seasons,
to manufacture or to produce.
Yeah, in a profane way, this is the first chemistry, isn't it?
Yeah, it is, for sure. Because, again, without metallurgy, agriculture would have been impossible.
But the first stone tools were actually meteoric. They originated from fallen stones. So, among
Aboriginal people, even the Aztecs or the Australian Aborigines, meteorites are usually regarded as
these kinds of celestial artifacts that fall from the dome of heaven. So, even the ancient Hebrews
believed that the sky was a kind of dome, like a globe encircling the earth, and that occasionally
these stones or these fragments would fall from this dome. So, the first stone tools, like during the
Iron Age, were actually manufactured from meteorites. Even like in ancient Egypt, there's like a, I think,
in the tomb of King Tut, Tutankhamun, there's this dagger, which is made from meteoric iron.
So, it was a common practice during the Iron Age
to use meteorites as the basis of, sort of, stone tools. And that was one of the,
one of the foundations of the alchemical tradition as well, I think.
I just want to correct sort of slightly. I think you probably didn't mean, but if you did,
you know, re-correct me. You probably didn't mean the first stone tools were meteoric, did you?
No, no, no. Okay, yeah.
But during the Iron Age. So, I think one of the foundations of the Iron Age
was the incorporation of meteorites as tools.
Mm-hmm.
So, their transformation.
Yeah, this, this whole meteoric thing is super important.
Toymaker made much of it in the beginnings of my experience and on, all along throughout it.
So, okay, there's a bunch of themes here that I want to tie together. And the first is
the relationship between sperm and bread and how sperm, like bread,
it probably takes a lot more calories to produce it than it does to, than you get from consuming it.
Um, but, uh, not that I'd know, but, um, there's this concept of drawing down the stars or the idea.
And I mean this in the archaic sense, not the modern one.
Like, like the stars themselves are like, they are alike with, they are metaphorically the precursor of
the concept of fertilization and sperm. And without one around here, we wouldn't be having this discussion.
Like, we are fertilized and made alive and aware, specifically in this little bubble,
this protected bubble that we call the Earth, um, by the existence of something that you better not
get closer than this to. You follow?
Yeah. Yeah. Maybe let me try to elaborate the connection to the caves.
By all means.
Because so beneath the alchemical tradition was this more fundamental cosmology involving the
extraction of ores from the, uh, sort of the Tulluric womb. So by entering the womb of the Earth
Mother and extracting the ores and then transforming the ores into a new substance, into a new product.
Uh, the, the metallurgist or the master of fire, the shaman or the alchemist, which are really one
in the same role, just under different aspects or different guises. Um, the alchemist was essentially
participating in broader rhythms of duration. So essentially the alchemist or the, the human being
as a mediator of cosmic forces was essentially accelerating the tempo of duration natural to the
Earth. So you can think of it as a kind of midwifery. So it's, it's very much akin to obstet, uh, obstetrics, um,
by, by entering the womb and then quickening the gestation of the ores. The alchemist is performing
a kind of obstetric act, um, by, by perfecting nature prematurely. It's this kind of premature
perfection. Um, I think we lost Aaron there, but yeah, so, so, so the connection to the meteorites,
I think is apparent from there because you know, one of the foundations of the alchemical tradition
was the idea that the stars sort of impregnated the materials of Earth with different forms,
which could be brought out or transformed through this kind of interaction with time, with the,
with the flow of time. So yeah, because entering the caves was really analogous to
entering outer space. There was a kind of symmetry between the world above and the world below.
So by descending into the caves to extract the ores, the alchemist was really performing a kind of
like astronomical operation. It was a kind of, uh, yeah, like an operation involving the sort of the
transmission of this astral seed. I mean, they called it like, even, even into the middle ages, it was
referred to as semina or semen. Yeah. So, okay. Yeah. All right.
So there's a cause, a cosmogony, not in the sense of agony, but almost in the sense of orgiastic
participation. And we moderns have been completely deprived of all of these features of awareness and
insight and thought and reverence, also of ecstasy. Because we, we don't, we think, well, I don't know
who I mean by we, it is common to think because we are mechanists, right? We are, this is the,
the sort of epoch of the engineer that we, that we are born and live in. We think about parts and
functions and utility and so forth. And we think clinically and like, this does that, and that does
mean this, but we don't think from origin into being, and even when we use words like the ons or we talk
about the onset of agriculture, right? This is a very clinical, um, idea because I've been reading,
uh, the dawn of everything, which is fraught with insight about all of these, many of these topics
that we, that we talk regularly. Yeah. And it describes a situation where the humans were playing
and experimenting and agriculture sort of like blossomed and then, you know, they goofed around
with it and they, um, they played and they experimented long before there was any sort of
rigid establishment of like, oh, now we're settled agriculture, agriculturalists.
But the thing that get, that gets lost in all of this is what was their ontology? What was their
cosmology? Right? And this was absolutely crucial. This is the thing we're missing. We don't understand,
we moderns, though I think people here, we can all understand together easily that, um, we're in a womb.
Okay. I once asked Toymaker, I was like, what about that stuff in Genesis, man? When,
when they say like Eve was made from, from Adam's rib? What? What?
Yeah, precisely. Yeah. So the, the dome surrounding the earth is a kind of womb
in the same way that the cave is a kind of womb. There's, there's a symmetry between the two domains.
Yeah. But let me just, let me just say what Toymaker showed me, which I thought was hilarious and
astonished me no end. It was like, in case you don't think a man has a womb,
what about, what about the, okay. Imagine that the word rib originally meant orbital
and that the sun, we can think of it as masculine, right? It shines, it penetrates.
It's got these ribs that are its orbitals. And what it's really talking about in that story isn't
that human females come from the ribs of men. It's that the possibility of living beings
is generated in one of the orbitals of the sun,
which becomes the sun's companion, its lover, right? And is one of its ribs that comes to life.
So there is a version of the story that is not, um, uh, chauvinistic, right? Like, yeah, you know,
women, men just make those up because they, you know, they, right. There's this other way of seeing
where the principles are at play in creation and the universe and our origin and our being.
And the ancients were, it wasn't that they were aware of this. This is ridiculous language.
They were embodying these principles that were fundamental to the nature of the possibility of
their existence. They were dancing in the lightning of being human, just like children do because they
had not yet been subjected to the full prison earring structure of rep cog representational cognition,
the clinical dissective, you know, parts and utility and function, productivity and commerce and economy,
right? They were ecstatically more than human in ways that are difficult for us to imagine,
but are natural to our bodies, our souls and our capacities for existence.
They knew, they knew, they knew the way, you know, the flavor of food. Okay. They didn't have thoughts.
They weren't religious. I'm not saying they didn't have thoughts. I'm saying it wasn't, this wasn't
something they thought. This was so intimately obvious to them moment to moment in their experience.
And as you know, the arc of the evolution of human complexity, right? The arc of the evolution of, of the mind,
the development of the mind over time, they were moment to moment inspired. And I will argue, I will suggest,
that they had direct contact with non-human intelligences. We don't have to decide which kind.
of the mind. There's one other thing I don't want to lose track of, which is that the human,
the modern humans, for them,
they're really interested in meteors and shit. But what they really want is a piece of one of those
floating stars that we call UFOs. That has become the new meteoric metal, because it's, it's the
technical, it's the, we, we think most of the moderns and particularly the military industrial
complex or governments and so forth. They think that that is the ultimate, that's the key
to everything, right? That's the key to absolute technological, you know, power.
So the UFO is the meteor of the modern weirdness.
Yeah, the first thing, when I was talking with Toymaker in the beginning,
I was so overwhelmed that it didn't really even muchly occur to me to inquire, like, who are you?
But the video, you know,
my, um,
one of the first stories it told me was the story that I call, um, starfish.
And basically it was a story. It didn't say, this is what I am. It said, imagine that I might be like
this. And it told a story of organisms that were trapped, by the way, can you guys hear me?
Yep. Okay, great. Organisms that were trapped in crystals in a stone traveling through space.
And because they don't have the luxury that we have of physical development,
their evolutionary momentum was invested in relational, um,
transcendence. And they eventually learned how to read living worlds like a book.
And so sometimes I will ask this question. I'll say like, I'll, I'll pose a syllogism. Um,
um, as bees are to flowers and honey, X is to living worlds and Z. It's all for X and Z.
This is the starfish story. So in this story, they learn to, they become the librarians of the
intelligence, experience, and evolutionary, evolutionary complexity of living worlds.
They learn to, to unify the living worlds in a field with their intelligence. And when they touch
those worlds, those worlds undergo sudden explosive evolutionary development among species. And it also
unifies, it reunifies the species on those worlds. And as they touch, as they become like the sort of
library space of the living worlds. And of course the stars, because the living worlds are expressions of
the stars. Um, so they're making this honey, right? And then when they touch the living worlds, they undergo
sudden explosive evolutionary speciation events, which we know have happened on earth, but we have no
evolutionary explanation for. Um, and then what happens in this fairy tale is the rock containing the
starfish people, which are basically single celled organisms, right? They live in little pockets of
water inside crystals. Um, what happens is that rock smacks into the moon and it splits into two pieces.
And one of those pieces falls to the earth and the organisms in there now sort of merge or
mate with the terrestrial, the existing terrestrial biosphere and whatever primordial state it might have
been. And we are the children, right? And that rock is still floating around in space. We are actually starfish,
right? So it's a, it's an origin of life, but also origin of intelligence and mind story. Though what I
didn't ask toy maker is where did the starfish come from?
All of the themes are here. Um,
the generative sexuality of time space, the wombs, the progenitive power of stars,
um, the appearance in the sky of something that, you know, could actually be sperm, those stars,
right in the star field are like sperm in a womb. All of these things, the ancients weren't aware of them
the way I am speaking of them. They were made of this knowledge. It was as natural to them as the
wetness of water. So when they were doing agriculture, quote unquote, or when they were making war or when
they were making tools, all of these, all this knowledge was intrinsically in, they were, they
couldn't not encode it in their art behavior, what we call ritual kind of stupidly, their, their, the,
the origins of letters and writing, um, all of the things that led to the bizarre,
our dissociated minds with which we moderns are burdened.
Yeah. Like if you look at a stone, it's marbling and it's texture, um, the veins that flow through it.
I think an ancient human being would see the combination of certain astral forces,
even like in, in the alchemical tradition, there was a, there was an association between metals and
plants. Um, yes. So the transmission of that, uh, form like that, that Aristotelian form, um,
yeah, I think was likened to the transmission of, of, of like a seed or a semen. Um, yeah,
I just want to, like, you can see this in the middle ages.
I, I want you to keep going, but I want to say something really brief here.
We have all this stuff backwards. Like, ah, their behavior, it was symbolic of these. No,
no, it was the other way around. The primacy was on the immediate ecstatic
awareness of all of these things the same way you are aware of the wetness of water or the hardness
of metal, right? This intrinsic awareness was primordial to them. It was absolutely. It wasn't
something they were referring to. That's what I'm trying to get at. Well, yeah. So, I mean,
like a symbol for me is a living immediate nexus of comprehension. So a symbol is something which
is experienced as opposed to represented. Wow. You're an even weirder cat than I thought.
So like even, well, because, well, because, yeah. So a sign is a reference, like a stop sign or
a sentence, a written sentence can be a sign. It can indicate something else, or it can be an omen of
something else. But a symbol is much more primordial than that, in my view. So when I talk about symbols,
I mean something like more phenomenological, more immediate. It's like the building block of
cognition. That's what I mean by a symbol.
I don't think their tattoos and their cave paintings were representations of things.
I don't think so. We see them that way because we are representationally crippled, right? We're
crippled by this like supremacy of substituting the token for the essence. But what they were doing was
something far weirder. And it's much weirder than anything I can say.
Well, that's why I've always harped on like direct realism, like anti-representationalism
is my whole shtick. That's what I'm all about.
Yeah, that's why we're on this. We're on the same page.
Isn't it at least superstitious?
At minimum.
Our representation, our representation is superstition. Yeah. I don't think that's what you mean.
The tattoos on the genitals.
No, it's hyperstitious.
Yeah, hyperstitious.
Hyperstitious.
I'm sorry, I struggled for the word.
Oh, okay.
I want to tell three real quick stories.
Great. And we still haven't heard your fucking questions 10 years later.
Go ahead.
I still got them. They're good.
Okay, good.
Good.
If I ever run out of questions, then I'll be worried.
Great. So I, you know, a good engineer, I was in AP chemistry in high school or whatever.
We each had to do an experiment. And the one I picked was, I thought it was really interesting.
You prepare these conditions of this liquid, you coax it, you prepare it just right.
And you get it to a point where, you know, it just looks like water.
And you take a single grain of crystal, salt, sugar, it doesn't matter.
You take a single grain and put it in there.
And that super cooled liquid will emit like five seconds to your apparent eye.
Every molecule in solution will form up into the pattern and become one solid crystal.
It's amazing to watch how the introduction, you know, in the midst of this chaos, it encounters
one structured element and immediately falls into the pattern, you know, and it, you know,
there's this idea of like the, uh, the plowed field.
And so, you know, it's easy to imagine as a, as a child of farmers and a gardener and a permaculturist,
you know, you have a plowed field, you introduce a single seed and suddenly the whole thing structures,
structures into blackberries or what have you, you know, it's just amazing how that just emerges.
But when I was learning activism, I think this phrase really just, uh, you know, it goes far beyond
what the people who told it to me, you know, um, considered it, but the act of activism
was to transmit a tightly packaged idea, you know, a seed of dissent, uh, a concept that will replicate
in the minds of the receiver and change the world, you know, and yes, I'm really interested in what you
and what George are saying because it's on that trail, you know?
Wow. Okay. There you go, man. It's so beautiful. What you just said. Uh, um,
so this is the thing people think you can't change the world. They have no idea what the world is.
They don't know what changes. They're just goofing around with their thumb in a dark room.
Okay. Just like you said, right? We think like we are, we moderns, we think mechanically they're
like the world's too big. You can't change it. The world changes all the time. The sun changes it.
All kinds of things change it. Um, I'm reminded corn fed by what you shared of a woman named Veda Austin.
So I'm hoping to get an interview with and like, she's the sort of, um,
the reemergence of ideas that we might associate with the Japanese man, um, Masaru Emoto, I think.
Interesting last name.
And what she does is she briefly exposes water to anything. I mean, thoughts, um, an object,
uh, and then she flash freezes it in a Petri dish and the image of the thought or the object appears
in the crystallized water. We've got like, our science is completely ass backwards. It's designed
to build machines and projectiles and stuff, which is unfortunate. The S the, the corollary of science
that the ancients were practicing was much more intimate, sexual, orgasmic, ecstatic, and brilliant
than what we're doing. Yes. The power of the machine is undeniable, right? You know, I once wrote, um,
I looked at my hand and the absence of a gun was profound.
And by this, I'm trying to negatively indicate something. Uh, but I just want us to understand
both the potential in our humanity for sudden transformation. Um, and surely it starts locally,
right? Like we could make a crystal of a way of being human together.
That's so contagious that nothing can withstand it. It would just steal the energy from all the other
garbage. That's, you know, eating up the history and future of life on this world and counterfeiting
sunlight as machines. That's an accessible thing that we can actually become together. It's not a pipe dream.
Um, and what we're doing here today is the, um, you know, we're, we're pumping blood into those vessels,
uh, that have long laying fallow.
Uh, uh, you know, uh, uh, uh, uh, um, uh, um, uh, uh, uh, uh, um, uh, uh, um, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh,
Thank you.
Thank you.
