Hello, everybody. I just finished recording this, I thought, but for the second time,
not with this recording, but with others, I failed to record this. Let me just check
that this is recording. Okay, yeah, looks like it is. I actually forgot previously to bring
my mic in, so maybe this will be a little better this time. It's always very disappointing
when one begins a project, and I was very pleased with the recording I made previously,
and then discovers, no, it didn't happen. The recording doesn't exist. I went through all
of the topics that I had in mind, very artfully, and only to, at the end of an hour and a half,
discovering that it wasn't recorded. Now, recording itself, by the way, you want to think about
that word, like, recording. This has to do with the word religion, which comes from the
same base roots that we get ligaments from, right, that which joins the features of the
body together. Recording is a weird and very peculiar, dangerous process.
Unpredictable, and it doesn't give us a one-to-one exemplar of what actually took place.
I'm going to take a moment and shut my door preemptively, in case there's some house noise,
which there probably won't be. So, the fit for today is Lone Wolf and Cub. I'll explain
that in a moment. I just need to get the author's name. This is one of my favorite mangas, probably
actually my favorite manga. It's by Kazuo Koiki and Goseki Kojima. This is one of the books,
and I'm wearing this in honor of my upcoming interview, which was supposed to happen in a
little while today, but will happen at some point in the near future. I'll show you the fit one more
time here. Love the shirt. It's impossible to get. If you happen to find one of these, buy it for me
and send it to me, because I'd love to have a second one. Love this story. This is in honor of
my upcoming interview with Amon Hillman, Dr. Amon Hillman, which I'm very excited about and has been
a long time in preparation. I also, with luck, I'll be interviewing him tomorrow, as well as Dr. Joanna
Kuyawa, a brilliant author of the book The Other Goddess, highly recommended, and a woman who has spent
her life learning about and understanding sort of the mystic feminine, which these days is a very
complex topic. Indeed, what it means to be feminine or masculine has been drawn rather furiously into
question over the past, say, decade or two. But I've really enjoyed her work. I've been listening to
interviews with her. She's an amazing mind. I'm super excited about talking with her tomorrow,
as well as Dr. Hillman, who thinks of himself as something of a ronin, having been subjected to a
variety of, shall we say, judgmental evictions from academia and other corners of the world.
Hillman is a self-described classicist and is fascinated with the distinction between our
pictures of ancient Greece and what was actually going on there. Having read an incredible amount
of material written by people writing in Greek, Hillman has a very radical and provocative view on
these matters, which I'm looking forward to exploring with him. Similarly, I was recently watching
Dr. Kuyawa's discussion with Chance Gardner about ancient Egyptian mysticism, and particularly art
and architecture, which I will be discussing somewhat. So the reason that I'm wearing Lone Wolf and Cub
is that Hillman thinks of himself as a bit of a ronin, and that story is about the emperor's second.
And this is a swordsman who achieves this rank by sophisticated demonstration of his abilities.
In the story, he defeats a member of, I think, the Kagu clan. These are a clan of assassins
priests and people who employ subterfuge, and they frame him by planting a blasphemous plaque
in his temple with the symbol and name of the emperor on it, as if, okay, so what's in that temple
are these memorial wooden objects of the people that he, whose lives he took for the sake of the emperor,
because his job is to preside over harakiri or seppuku, self-execution. And in order to limit the
amount of suffering by the person having been directed to do this by the emperor, the second
holds their sword at the ready, and as they begin the process, beheads them.
So Lone Wolf and Cub, in that story, the Kagu, if that's the right name for the clan, they kill
his whole family, and they frame him as having blasphemed against the emperor, hoping that he will
be executed, and that one of their clan can then take his role. His wife is killed, but his infant
son survives, and in a telling scene, he presents the young son, the infant, with a ball and a sword,
puts his sword in the ground, and he puts a ball there, and he asks the child to choose.
And the child, he tells the child, who's a non-verbal infant, that if he selects the ball, then
he will send him to be with his mother, meaning he will kill his child. But if he selects the sword,
then they together will become demons in the world, and will go on a journey of discovery and vengeance.
And so the child chooses the sword, so he becomes an assassin for hire with his baby in a little
cart that he carries with him. It's a fascinating story. I like it a lot. The films are also excellent.
Lone Wolf and Cub, so that's the fit for today. I'm also wearing my Reddit hat from my dear friend,
Mike Rezel. So, you know, I am someone who has had a profound, long-term, non-ordinary experience,
which the first phase of occurred in 2002. And another phase, which was different,
but similar happened in 2009. And during that experience, I had another intelligence with my
mind that was capable of structuring it as it pleased, as if the same way that I can use my hand,
it could use my mind, except far more profoundly. And that resulted in a broad array of non-ordinary
senses. I introduced this concept not to tell that story here, but because during that experience,
it was as if I had always had like 12 different kinds of eyes that could see histories and futures
and into the structure of living beings and their lifespans as if the world had always been the sort
of living being that is a kind of a book that can be read by these eyes without which it's mostly
invisible. And so, for example, I could, if I chose to, I could look at someone and know their name and
where they were born and their parents' names and if they'd been injured when they were children
or had illnesses, where they would die, all kinds of astonishing things that prior to that would
certainly have seemed impossible to me. I could imagine that other humans might have such abilities
or experience, but I'd never had anything like that myself. And I mention this because one of the things
that was highlighted to me were histories of the development of human cognition and the development
of life on other worlds and the dangers to this world and all of these kinds of things. But an early
topic was this sort of concept of one foot, which the intelligence used to tell me stories about how life
came to earth. And these stories were not necessarily true. A vast portion of the domain of insight has
little to do with what is true or not. And when we become very concerned with what is true or not,
the field of our capacity for understanding is radically limited. And much of insight has little to
do with what is true. What it has to do with is what helps you to see more profoundly, to gain understanding
and awareness and to relate intelligently, not just in the sense of rationality, intelligently in the
sense of the spirit of insight, right? And so, you know, we are often, especially as males,
we are trained to dismiss that which we can determine is not true, particularly should it come from the
mouths of our lovers. But that's wildly unfortunate because, again, although if you're talking about
something very simple, for example, is the water boiling or not? Not a problem, right? It's either
boiling or not. It could be very hot and not be boiling. It could be cold and not be boiling.
So for simple pragmatic concerns in the layer of our awareness with which representational cognition
is concerned, that stuff works pretty well. For most of the rest of things, like understanding
existence or what light is up to or the nature of time or relating intimately with our capacities
for experience and so on, that stuff doesn't work so great. It's not basically either true. The simple
fact of the binary of truth or false is deceptively unuseful there. And we humans have been trained
to transfer the expectation of the continuity and solidity of objects onto features of cognition.
This is wildly unfortunate. It blinds us to much of the capacities of our awareness, intelligence,
our innate trans-sentience, right? More than nearly sentient, which is natural to human beings and
probably to all other creatures. So yeah, early on, this one foot thing is going to become central
later. It was something that one of my son's friends, Nish, was discussing in a recent recording
that he made about nagas and snakes. He's an incredibly sophisticated and well-educated mind in terms of
mysticism, religious traditions, and particularly Shaivism and Hinduism, which Dr. Kuyawa has also
had a long involvement with. This one foot thing primarily highlighted amoebas and snakes, right?
When it was discussing this principle of one footness. And this turns out to be relevant to
some of the discussion that occurred between Dr. Kuyawa and Chance Gardner. I strongly recommend you
watch the video that they made together and Chance's work is brilliantly heartful, intelligent, and amazing.
So one of the things that I want to talk about here is something that I talk about a lot, which is how
our innate capacities for intimacy, the thing that what we call knowledge,
is actually a tokenized reductive version of wonder, awe, imagination, discovery, curiosity, play.
And not just like discovery isn't merely determining what is the case. When I learn, I am transformed and
and the field of available liberties to me expands, right? Unless what I'm learning is the kind of thing
that shuts that down. And much of representational cognition is just that way. The experience that
I had in 2002, which I often use the word toy maker to refer to, and I'm not intending to talk a lot
about that today. But one of the things, you know, I basically asked a very simple question early on in
that relationship, which was what happened to my people, right? How do we get this messed up? Why are we like
this? And the answers don't have to do with what we would usually like to think. It's not selfishness
and greed. It's actually the eviction of a broad array of potentials and faculties into tokens that
are easily exchanged, right? Money is a great example. So he presented a sort of a parable to me
early on in our, in my studies with him, because being with that mind was like being in a preschool
run by angels and aliens. I mean, just all day long, every day is pouring into me insight and
visionary understandings of the nature of, you know, everything. The history of living planets,
how they are destroyed, what happens with representational cognitive species, how we got that
way, all of these kinds of things, which were as fascinating, compelling, more fascinating,
compelling than any kind of human information I've ever encountered. And there was no language
involved. It was sort of a direct mind to mind transmission of experience and awareness and
understanding or something beyond what we would think of as intellect, but not entirely dissimilar.
And it, it showed me a story where, I mean, I'm sure this has happened a million times.
A young girl is on the way to school with her mom in the car and she sees some birds and she gets
super excited. Like, mom, mom, the birds, the birds, look at the birds. And of course, the mom's driving
and, you know, she's tolerant of the child's enthusiasm for, you know, the first four or five days.
But every time the child, the child sees the birds and goes into, you know, ecstasies of the birds,
the birds. Finally, the mother says, oh, those are just sparrows. The child is kind of like, what?
And so the next day, you know, the child's like, oh, mom, mom, the sparrows, the sparrows.
She's still excited. But over time, the fact that she has a token to refer to the phenomena that was
filled with mystery and impossible wonder and joy, that token begins to replace her experience of
intimacy and joy and enthusiasm. So six days in, she's like, oh, there's the sparrows, right?
10 days in, she's like, oh, mom, the sparrows, right? And on like the 20th day, she's like, oh,
the birds and back to the iPad, right? Or whatever, you know? So we all undergo this process of in
languaging and enculturation, which mostly shuts down vast libraries of faculties and abilities that are
natural to our form of life and the kinds of beings that we are. And this is tragically unfortunate,
right? Once you learn what something is, that can end your exploration, not only of the phenomena of,
say, a tree, but also of yourself. Because in discovering the depth and the potential
of the referent that the word tree points at, your interiority should effloresce, right? It should
expand and become amazing. This is not what happens. For most of us, learning the names of things tends to
occlude or inhibit our enthusiasm, wonder, awe, playfulness, self-discovery, exploration of
existence, right? So, you know, the adults, for their part, have already undergone this process
and are half dead inside, if not nearly completely. And some of them aren't, right? Like, some of us
manage to preserve features of these originary enthusiasm that we bring into incarnation, especially
artists and writers and actors and painters and musicians and so forth, right? The arts turn out to
be one of the sort of the antithesis of the graveyard, but that too gets captured by representational
culture and represented as a commodity. So, you know, we suffer from having over-structured
representational cognition that tends to shut down the faculties that it should empower, right? And
again, in some of us, we manage to conserve or preserve some features of this. Most of us are
concerned with the big questions, you know, what is life? What is death? Why is there something like
injustice? But few of us will imagine that it's a feature of how our cognition gets structured,
not just by language, but by enculturation, right? By being immersed with others whose minds have been
structured this way. And that structure is sclerotic in terms of our natural inclinations for enthusiasm,
wonder, play, discovery, research, creativity.
So I've been fascinated by these topics for a long time, and they form a large part of the understructure
of my work as a cognitive activist, which is a token. Unfortunately, learning what something is can
kill your enthusiasm and wonder and awe about it because in cognition, the token becomes confused with
insight about the phenomena, right? And insight about the phenomena only arises through a process of
intimacy. And we have this other stuff that's kind of dead inside that we call knowledge. But that kind
of knowledge is more like the wrapping paper of a candy bar that we never get to taste because it's
parts-based, it's clinical, it's tokenized. It is the produce of the Repcog layer in human history,
thought and behavior. And that produce is mostly blinding. If understanding the name of something
were the same as knowing what it is, we would know what the sun is, or what birth is, or what death is,
or what dreaming is, or what love is about, or all of those things. If you look very carefully at human
knowledge, what you're going to discover is something very shocking. There is not even one person who knows
what anything is. What we have are words and explanations. That means to cut and flatten.
That explain, it means to make a graph, right? A flattening. And it's very compelling to be able to
know the words of things. When I was younger, often if someone would ask me if I knew the work of a writer
or something, if I knew their name, I would say, oh yeah, yeah, sure. If I knew the word for something,
I presented as if I understood in a deep way what that word pointed toward. And that was me being
arrogant or, you know, kind of peacocking, which is something young men are, you know, really good at.
Eventually, though, I realized if I don't know, it was much wiser for me to declare that I don't know
anything or even, well, I've heard that word or I've heard that name, but fill me in. In traditional
Blackfoot culture, according to my friend, Ryan First Diver, he has told me that it's considered
both rude and arrogant to claim to know, for example, one of the important cultural stories or
creation narratives. And so if someone asks you, you know, do you know the story of Scarface,
you always say no. Or at least you will not affirm that you know it. Because if you do,
a bunch of stuff happens immediately. The first is that you appear to be kind of a know-it-all. Oh,
you know everything already, right? And the second is you will deprive yourself of everything you might
have learned in a retelling. You are a new person right here, right now, with another being who has
some knowledge and is offering to share it. It's kind of like, imagine if you went to a dinner party
and someone said, you know, which was carefully prepared by someone you love, and they said,
oh, try it, try this. And you're like, no, I've had food before. See, that's the problem with
representational cognition. There's an aspect of cognition that seems to want to pretend to know
a thing without having any actual experience of it, or very little, or very little knowledge,
right? Just because it knows the word. Oh, that's a birch tree, you know? Does anyone know why there
are trees? What trees are? Where organisms come from? Nope. I mean, if you can find someone that even
knows what a rock is, even simple objects that we create, we don't know what they are.
Our tools actually give us the deceptive impression of knowledge because I know what a spoon is. Come
on, how much intimacy could there be there? Well, there could be a lot because if we could really see
into the evolutionary history of the minds that invented spoons, right, what produced the spoon,
there we would find insight for sure. But if I know what a spoon is, I'm done. I'm out. Yeah,
it's just a spoon. On to the next thing. One of my close friends who could be described as spectrum-y
if we were interested in labels like that, and I absolutely love this guy. He was talking about
his frustration with his mom because she's really into going to visit these trees every day that she
loves. And I remember him saying to me, dude, it's just a bunch of trees. Do you have any idea what
trees are? Nope. What he's got is some words. And what he knows is that trees don't present to him
in any way that invites his curiosity or intimacy. They just seem to just stand there like objects. So
why is anyone, why is my mom so excited to see them, to go be with them, right? So as we, you know,
as our representational cognition is inculcated upon us by our cultures and so forth, we tend to
lockstep with it and we acquire the habit of thinking that the word for something, if we know the word for
something, we know what it is, when in fact nobody knows what anything is. There's not a single person
you will find. I mean, if you find one, send them my way. Um, and again, there's, it's a matter of
degree, right? Like knowing what a spoon is. Okay. I'll go along with that. But even that we don't
know why there are objects or why there are beings with minds that make spoons or any of that kind of
thing. Um, why there is something rather than nothing as if, you know, why isn't the only thing we
could know because it's not as if there's a reason, right? The question why implies a reason.
We have these seven question words, by the way, they all begin with W, which is like doubling your,
your, your thought, right? There's someone asking the question. There's someone responding this W.
Yeah. Except for one, um, how, and all of them, except for how, have the second letter H, which is like,
huh, huh, right? Imagine you're breathing on a mirror and the little, um, little bubbles of
moisture appear all over it that each reflect uniquely each reflect each other and also you
and the surface of the mirror, right? This huh sound. It's a redolent of the spirit
of transcendence and awareness and consciousness and thought in this way. So we have these
seven question words and what is particularly deceptive because once you know what something is,
you're likely to shut down, right? Your curiosity and enthusiasm and wonder tend to die out.
So these are all, these discussions are preparatory to where I'm trying to get to. And
in fact, it's not necessarily that there's a reason or a purpose for existence. Imagine that, um, without
physical beings like us,
the possibility of purposive orientation, communication, relation, thought, imagining,
dreaming, it's not there, right? In order to have purposive, the field, the sort of possibility space
of existence, right? Is very fascinatingly linked to the, to the nature of physical existence. So
rather than there being a reason, it might be for the existence of purposive relation.
And I'm going to get back to that purpose thing in a minute. So in watching,
in watching Dr. Kuyawa's discussion with Chance Gardner about the Egyptian mystics and Egyptian art and
architecture as if what they were doing was art, um, Chance brilliantly expressed that there are all
these correlations between the structure of essentially, um,
the, the structures on which the brain stem, right? The structures around which the, the rest of the
brain exists and came into, we imagine came into being over evolutionary time, if there ever was really
such a thing. And, um, it's fascinating, right? It's very clear the, uh, relationships between, um,
certain cross-sections of the brain and Egyptian art. And, um,
also he proposed something that I thought was really interesting, which was that, uh, he didn't
necessarily think, and this is both him and Dr. Kuyawa have had profound, uh, awakening experiences,
non-ordinary experiences of their own. And he resisted the idea that what the Egyptians were depicting
were gods that they worshipped. Instead, he proposed that they were principles that they were aware of
and that their own existence and awareness, consciousness, intelligence, or, you know, orbited.
And I think this is a very important idea because imagine that you were a god or an angel or something,
right? Or just actually just imagine that you're a person. Do you want to be worshipped?
Think carefully about this. Do you want like a bunch of slaves who are just,
you can do no wrong in their eyes. They think you're the best thing that ever walked on two legs.
Or do you want intimacy? Do you want relational, um, efflorescence, right? Like, like developmental
awe and enthusiasm and wonder because, you know, when we meet or we, we love someone,
what happens is there's both, we are transformed by that. So the possibility space of me, uh, is not
just transformed. It's a bunch of new domains of self-awareness through the relation with others
and other living beings and places expands dramatically. Whereas the worshipper thing,
not very exciting. If you've ever had somebody madly in love with you who you didn't find very
interesting, you get pretty quickly that the worship thing does, isn't fun, right? And people who are
famous, they each uniquely relate with, um, the possibility space of fame, but it gets pretty old
when people are like asking you for your autograph and every, and you can't go anywhere without being
recognized and parapozzi or like paparazzi or like taking your, your photograph all the time. There's
no privacy. Everyone wants to know everything. That doesn't sound like a lot of fun. Probably if they
could not have that part, they'd give it up, right? If they could get rid of that part, they'd give it up.
So if you were a God, would you want to be worshipped? What, what, what would that grant you?
Um, now on the other hand, there is, so even during my experience, the unimaginable relational ecstasy
between me and the being or beings that were my, that were teaching me or with my mind
was unlike anything I'd ever imagined. Like, yeah, it's not, it's not worship, but it's adoration,
it's ecstatic, ever expanding adoration, but it's mutual, right? It wasn't just me, you know,
fawning at the feet of a, of a non-human intelligence of some kind. And, you know,
I could make noises about what kind, but I don't think they're very useful. Um, no, there was mutual
wonder between us, right? It was just, it was at least as probably as exciting for them to be relating
directly with a single human as it was for me to be relating with them. So that's not
mere worship. Adoration is different from worship. Um, now, you know, when we have these sort of very
simplistic, uh, secular versions of religion, especially in Christianity, for example, and
perhaps also in, um, Islam and some other religions as well, uh, most religions have layers, right? So
the secular layer tends to be mostly like rep cog stuff. And also it's easily compromised by people
who want to take advantage of it. You know, they want to make money or have crowds. You know, if you've
got 40,000 people listening intently to you on stage and paying, you know, 50 bucks a head for
two hours of your sermon, um, then you might as well be like a God yourself, right? And you can
pretend that you're there for the sake of Jesus or right, whoever. Um, in fact, you're probably not,
right? Uh, and this can, you know, this can get very sort of tangled up and confused.
Um, so my point is that in religions, there are layers. And as you get down toward the monastic
layer that their impressions and experience and what they will have to say about divine beings
and God and so forth is radically different from what you'll see on the surface. So the fact that the
surface level is counterfeited shouldn't, uh, cause us to entirely dismiss what's deep inside there,
because deep inside there are people who've devoted their entire lives to the pursuit of
intimacy with the divine, right? Um, so even if the religion is rather misguided, you know,
the idea of like a punishing, jealous, vicious God that sends you around slaughtering people or something,
that's kind of weird to put it mildly. Um,
I just want to highlight the fact that this is very similar to how our minds work, right?
Superficially, you got the tokens. Ah, it's just a tree. Get a little bit deeper. You can learn the
biology of the tree and where it lives and other things more or less analytical about it. A little
deeper, you start to ask like, why are there trees? And maybe you would even ask some trees, like,
who are your people? Can you talk to me? Can you teach me? Deeper than that, you, you might, um,
encounter intelligences capable of elucidating features of the nature of existence and origin
and its relationship with physical reality and so forth. Uh, deeper than that, you might have the
obliteration of representational cognition and the ecstatic, um, catastrophic presence of insight
without subject or object, right? So, you know, we humans are mostly blinded by RepCob. It's really
dangerous stuff. It's very useful in the representational layer of human behavior and
culture. It'd be, it'd be hard for you to get along without that there. If you wanted to participate in
that, many of us don't, right? We don't want to have to pay rent or drive cars or any of that,
like have a bank account or any of that stuff, right? That's mostly misery for millions of human
beings, but it seems to be necessary because how, well, how, where are you going to get food, right?
Medicine, how do you get medical care, dental care, uh, insurance, all these things. Yeah.
Um, but for most of human history, there weren't any things like that. There were healers probably. Um,
so it can be deceptive and, and, you know, we, we moderns are even more confused because we live
in the era when representations have become like the swarming morass of images and sounds and media
and so forth so that we could, you know, I think we're taking like 12 billion photographs of food
per day. And that's so ironic because those photographs cost beings to make. Okay. The
food costs beings to make beings have to die for the food to be made. And I don't think people realize
that if you just keep taking photographs of food pretty soon, the upkeep of that library of hundreds
of billions of photographs of food will become so severe that there won't be any food, right? Like
what happens with representations is that intimacy and living beings die to produce them. And as they are
and they are, um, manufactured by the millions and when we now, you know, it was difficult perhaps 50 years
ago to make swarming piles of photographs, but now I think we're taking something like, I don't know,
three to 5 billion photographs an hour, something like that. Um, and those, you know, require electricity
to sustain them in computers and hard drives and they have to be backed up and they're transmitted and
they're modified and they're fed to, um, LLMs to train them and so forth, right? So we've got like
the opposite of food and it's hard to understand what the opposite of food is, but it's something
that makes it less and less likely for you to get fed and your children over time. And you know,
we live on a living planet. So there's this vast history behind us of beings and those beings,
mothers and fathers and children and brothers and sisters and companions and enemies and so forth,
they had urgent desires for justice, not in the sense of vengeance, in the sense of the correct
balancing of priorities, right? They had a desire for the developmental liberation of their children
and their ancestors. And they lived toward that desire wherever they weren't completely compromised by,
you know, some structured, um, idea, uh, tyrant or society, quote unquote. And so it's very important to
understand this because we are the moment, we are the living moment of that vast library of beings.
And if we do something very ignorant or unjust, and if we trivialize existence,
then not merely are we not fulfilling their dreams, we're kind of taking a crap in their hand,
right? And we may not be doing that intentionally or consciously, but neither are we doing
the other possibility, which is to do something so beautiful, creative, human, and intelligent
that it fulfills the dreams of our ancestors and the possibilities of our future children
and all the beings who ever lived here, not just the humans. The humans are floating
on myriads of beings that pay a very high price for the existence of the humans. Um, what are we giving
back, right? So it's really important to understand that our fascination with representations is extremely
dangerous and it leads us into all kinds of misbehavior, which superficially might not look quite
as malignant as it actually is underneath. And it behooves us not to just mourn that, but to become aware
of it and remind each other of this together so that we have, we and our children have the opportunity
to both see through it and to do something else, right? When we come together, um,
and to come together for the purpose of doing something better, remembering our nature, our origin,
the sky, our ancestors, and so on.
So when I was watching, uh, Dr. Kuyawa's discussion with Chance Gardner,
who's just a brilliant soul, you can see what a heartful, amazing spirit that guy is.
And he has the most astonishing visuals of the correspondences between different sort of
cross sections of the brain, different features of Egyptian art, shows the brain stem and how it has
one foot. And there's lots of art, um, not just from Egypt, but other cultures that seem to have this
single footed aspect and then how the pituitary gland and the thyroid and the, um, uh,
the pineal gland, right. Form these structures that are represented in the hats and art of Egypt and so
forth. And it's all brilliant. Um, but I don't think he knows how they got there. And when I was
watching, I was very curious about where he was going to go. Like, how did he think they figured
that out? It's possible. Like, you know, I once, um, I've, I've worked with a neuroscientist for about
20 years and I'm fascinated by the brain and I know a bit about its structure. I'm not an expert,
but I, you know, I'm fascinated. I'm a, I'm a feral autodidact. So pretty much everything I've learned
has come from books or discussion with other human beings. I never went to high school.
Um, I'm not exactly self-taught, but the mothers and fathers of my mind were mostly science fiction
authors and scientists and the authors of novels and musicians and artists and actors and dancers and,
you know, these, these kinds of beings. Um, but I'm not formally educated and I'm fascinated with
learning and language and I want to see better. That's my whole, I'm an insight addict, right?
I want to see more amazing things than I saw yesterday. Every time I look at a tree,
I want a deeper experience than I had last time. The one thing I don't want is for it to be shut down
because I've got a token that I can use to defect from intimacy or relation with experience and
existence. So when I'm watching them, I'm thinking, well, also, so in the nineties,
I was publishing a magazine called cyanosis and the orienting motivation there was that
the Republican Congress was attacking the NEA, um, having to, you know, become concerned that there
were anti-American and anti-Christian activities among the artists being funded by the National
Endowment for the Arts. Similarly, they would go after education and especially public education.
And, um, so I thought, well, you know, art is like the oxygen in the social bloodstream. So they're
really just suffocating, you know, the future this way. Cyanosis means turning blue, right? It's
something that happens when you've used up the oxygen in your bloodstream. And as part of, um,
the second issue, my companion, Amy and I, she got me in to see a neurosurgeon,
uh, Dr. Francis Conley, who was then at Stanford, um, one of the very few female neurosurgeons of her time.
And, um, we did a long interview with her and I, I said, look, you know, in order to understand what
you're doing, I need to go into the operating room with you. It's like, oh, no, we can't do that. I
want to take pictures too. So I definitely can't do that. So eventually she said, I think maybe we
could get you into the operating room. We will, um, I will tell, you know, the other people there that
you're, you're interns, you know, your students. Great. So we got in there and I watched her take the top
of a man's head off and work on his brain for six and a half hours. And she took about a softball's
worth of material out of his brain. And I saw the backs of his eyes inside his head. And it was quite
an education to put it mildly. But what I'm trying to get at is if you look at a brain in
C2, it doesn't look like what you're used to seeing. You don't see like cross sections of structure.
You'd have a hard time wreck, you know, discriminating organs in there. Now it's
possible that the Egyptians who were very practiced at the preservation of organs,
had the ability to dissect them with great care. They couldn't produce cross sections like we do.
And we can microtome a brain into like a hundred thousand or, you know, 10,000 slices and just look
at every piece of structure. And we can also do that with magnetic resonance imaging.
And I know a bit about brain anatomy and stuff, but how could they have represented the structure of
the brain in their art in the ways that they did? Now you can say, well, okay, they dissected brains.
Sure. All right. But how would they tell what the parts did? We would not know what the parts do if
we didn't have like biochemistry and, you know, electrical devices, neurology, and so forth,
with which we could measure electrical activity and trace out nerve systems and all of this kind of
stuff, which you need microscopes for at the very least. So how did they know what the pituitary was
or what the thyroid was? And, you know, I would argue that there's, there's a variety of options,
but I doubt they could have learned it by dissection. So how did they learn it? Presuming
that they did learn it and they weren't just seeing a beautiful shape, right? In the cross section of the
brain. And you're like, well, that must, that's the center of it. So that must be the important thing.
You know, I doubt that the ancient Egyptians were doing something that, uh, naive.
Um, so yeah, I was really curious what he thought. He didn't have, he didn't have an explanation,
uh, at least not in his discussion with Dr. Kuyawa, which I found fascinating and still do.
But I was left with a lot of questions and, you know, there's certain things that
anthropologists and archaeologists will simply not say, right? And one of them is,
I haven't seen a single one of them saying something like, well, there were non-human intelligences
in contact with these ancient peoples. They had a direct experience of them moment to moment, or even,
the intimate experiences of more than human intelligences were an aspect of their experience
of awareness moment to moment, which to me, having had such an experience myself,
seems not merely likely, but almost certain. And the idea of gods is pretty boring,
but intelligences with which our mind, you know, field intelligences that our minds are capable of
becoming organs within. I have to tell you that experience without that experience, I would have no
idea what it means to be human. And with that experience, I knew what I was made for. It was
like a fish who had never seen water suddenly being put into water. I was, oh, oh, this is what
I'm for. That. Everything in my being had this feeling like I am for this, right? I don't know what
I've been doing the rest of this time. It's like beings who have seven kinds of eyes living in a
world with no light. I think that's how we are as modern humans. We're completely bereft of
understanding of most of what is crucial to our nature, existence, origins, histories, potentials,
intelligences, all these things. And I doubt the ancients were in that condition, which brings me to my
second or sort of not my second, but one of the points that I wanted to explore here.
You know, our science is deceptive in a variety of ways. I mean, there's a lot of features of
science that are terrible. One thing that's important to me is if I'm pretty sure if I were a
scientist today and I had any kind of real moral or ethical foundation, I would refuse to publish.
Because if you give the findings of science to corporations and anti-societies like ours,
they're going to do bad, bad things with them. And there's nothing that limits
what the bad things they will do might be, right? There's no fucking bridle on that shit.
Our commercial cultures, corporations, the military industrial prison complex,
these things just take scientific findings and breed atrocity out of them. It's not the only thing that
happens, but it's a lot of what happens. So I think I'd be very skeptical about that.
You know, it's wildly unfortunate. We are born with the seeds of myriad faculties of such amazing
potential that we would not imagine them possible, except that we do imagine them possible in science
fiction stories, in fantasy stories, in ancient stories of human experience with gods and so forth.
Uh, and most of those just get shut down. Many of us will have little, if any, experience of them
during our lifetimes. Some of us will. You can find people who do have experience of them and can
demonstrate those faculties. You can also find people who can fake them. And some of the people
who can fake them will tell you that the real stuff doesn't exist because they can be faked,
like Darren Brown, for example. Um, so it's very tragic, all of this sort of shutting down. And, you know,
it occurred to me last night that it's the frameworks, right? That, um, science inherits
from, I don't know, 1600s, 1700s, 1800s, 1900s. Um, it's these explanatory frameworks that archaeologists
and anthropologists inherit that blind them. And I am subject to this as well, right? I've had my
experiences over my life and I have biases that I'm very well wedded to. And the problem with that is
that if, if I want insight, if I want to learn and see better and see anew, then I have to be really
careful about which frames I drag in. Because what, what tends to happen over time is that we will only
see things that don't violate the frame and the frames are brought in to validate and invalidate
to highlight and occlude certain things, right? This is part of why you might hear anthropologists
talking about, um, what they could understand about what they were told about the spiritual, um, components
of indigenous life or something like this. But what you will never hear is them saying they spoke
with divine beings. They spoke with beings in the sky, right? And, you know,
some archaeologists and anthropologists have noticed, um, very crucial correlations between
certain forms of art and features of the sky as it moved over time or things like this or the moon cycles
or whatever. But what, what they would never, it would never occur to them to say that they knew the
sky as their own mind. The sky spoke into them. And so their fascination, their fascination with
constellations or structure wasn't because they were astronomers. They had the same relationship with the
sky that I have with my mother. They had a direct relationship and it wasn't imaginary. The sky spoke into
them. Their mind was the sky speaking, right? These kinds of things. You'll very rarely come across
anything like that because it violates the rather clinical, you know, eliminative materialist, reductive
mechanist, um, philosophical frameworks that have colonized the academy, right? Uh, meanwhile, you can
make up other shit that has, you know, that just fits in the frame and become famous and get Nobel
prizes or, you know, whatever you want, right? You'll get, uh, tenure or whatever you want. But if you
bring something that violates the frame, like Amin Hillman did, Dr. Hillman, then you're going to have,
you know, serious trouble if not just be destroyed. Um, Carl Sagan's wife, Lynn Margolis, one of my heroes,
the, uh, the sort of originator of the endosymbiotic theory of the organelles in animal cells was
roundly dismissed. I mean, laughed out at the academy, uh, only later did her model where her
models validated and now are, you know, basically canon in biology. So we have this problem with
frames, right? And even I, when I, when I'm trying to understand something, I have to use a frame to
understand it. But if I forget that I brought the frame or that the frame has certain kinds of purposes
that I have become unconscious of, then I will be blinded by it. And this is what has happened in
modern science. There's a vast array of frames, not just in archeology or anthropology, but very much so
in archeology. Um, and people like, uh, Sheldrake, Rupert Sheldrake and Randall Carlson, uh, love to draw
these frames into question and are roundly dismissed by academia for doing so. Um, although I don't,
I can't really speak to Carlson as much as, um, Sheldrake because Sheldrake is very, very thoroughly
dismissed. Um, and Wikipedia has basically a pogrom against Sheldrake. Uh, now I'm not claiming that,
that Sheldrake's correct, but he's onto something important when he talks about telepathy because
what's actually going on is the opposite of what we think is going on, right? We, um, we think, oh,
telepathy is a special case situation among gifted. No, no, no, no, no, no. It's telepathy
everywhere. And representational cognition is eating up all the energy that would naturally be
expressed that way. Mind to mind communication feature of, of human experience throughout the
entire evolution of our species. But rep cog eats up the energy that just like electricity being all
around you. Um, how should I put this disorients your metabolism and faculties, uh, rep cog just
sucks up that energy like a vacuum, right? And so because we are representational cognitives and
because that has such a grip, that's the most expensive thing you can do metabolically with a brain
is that languagey stuff, right? That highly structured sclerotic, um, thing, thing,
labyrinth of things and their, their, their, you know, how they compare and their characteristics
and qualities and value and so forth, right? That stuff, super expensive telepathy, practically
free in comparison, really easy to do. Um, it's why dogs are doing it all day long, right? Cats,
they know when their owners are coming home. Um, so yeah, but Sheldrake's just trying to get people
to see that there's evidence for mind to mind communication. They're like, nah, that violates
all the frames. So when I bring my own frames, now I'm just as biased as anyone else. And if I'm not
aware of the frames I'm bringing, they will blind me just like anyone else, which is part of why I
like to engage in discussion and reading of people who I don't agree with, right? Um, Eric Weinstein
once brilliantly said, like, let me just ask you a question. You ever been to a restaurant? Yeah.
How many restaurants did you go? And you say like, I'll have everything.
Yeah, I'll just, I'll have it all. I mean, if I only read the humans with which I entirely agreed,
there'd be a lot less reading going on. I mean, there are kinds of humans with which I don't have
to disagree, right? The writers of novels and science fiction authors and things like this.
And science fiction authors were my teachers. Um, and I hoped one day to have a mind similar to theirs.
Thankfully, I somehow managed to become science fiction instead of just read it. But, um,
yeah, my own biases are just as blinding as anyone else's. And so I need to, I want to read people with
whom I disagree. Um, one of the most recent examples of that was, uh, the guy who wrote Humankind.
Yeah. Boy, I disagreed with him a lot. Can't recall his name at the moment. Maybe it'll come to me.
Not that important. Um, so my point is often my insight arises by wrestling with disagreements
in other people whose intelligence I'm fascinated by and who I learn from, but I have wild disagreements
with them. Um, even Alfred Korzybski, one of the most brilliant mentors I've ever encountered,
the developer of non-Aristotelian logic, uh, who wrote Science Insanity, um, brilliant and half insane
Polish spy, then mathematician. Uh, there's tons of stuff in Science Insanity I disagree with. His views
about, um, morals and it's one of the things he said that I wildly disagree with is people who break the
law should just become the experimental subjects for scientists. They've given up their right to
be human. It's like, what, what are you batshit insane? Um, there's things I disagree with in one
of my favorite books by Julian Jaynes, The Origins of Consciousness in the Breakdown of the Bicameral Mind.
I love reading Jaynes. I have an exciting time every time I reread that book. Um, and it's new to me
to a vast degree every time I reread it. These are books I reread commonly. So, you know, just like
anyone else, if nobody's kind of, if I'm not tapping myself on the shoulder and going like,
Hey buddy, look at your frames over there and not just the frames, but what are the purposes for which
I forged those frames? And here's where it gets really important or really interesting for me.
You know, in, in alchemy there's, um, there's a sort of a trope and I, and I'm going to have to
paraphrase it because I don't remember the exact language, but it's something like
the most valuable substance or the most valuable thing. And by what they mean by this is
the thing that transforms, right? The, um, the catalyst, I think that's it,
is something that humans constantly just throw away. And in alchemy, you know,
the, the superficial narrative is the transformation of lead into gold.
And there might've been alchemists who were actually trying to do that specific thing,
right? They were trying to produce the meta material, right? That transforms other materials
magically. But what it's actually about is the same thing that the Elefcina, the mysteries of Elefcina,
or in English, we usually say the, the illusion, the Eleusinian mysteries, right? That the Greeks,
uh, had this process of initiation that people underwent. And what it, what they were really
talking about was the inversion of the injustice, um, the domination of the opposites of virtue,
right? Selfishness, tyranny, hatred, violence, um, denigration, shaming, right? All of these,
uh, greed and, and just, um, the gap in, incessant gathering of wealth, uh, at the expense of all
beings and so forth. Really, um, the whole idea is to restore balance in the sense of the, you know,
a human being, an animal to a living place. It's like the entire universe, it's, it's future and its
history form this hyperstructure. And there's this little string, sort of like the opposite of a kite,
right? That comes down into material existence and becomes a being. But across that string is,
is the everywhere, when, who, all of being, right? And so it's that, that chorus of insight and love
and wonder and virtue that should be in the, in the place of the orienting awareness.
But down here, this is flipped over. And so part of what the mysteries were for was to essentially
sacrifice, um, the delusions that, uh, that a human being can acquire over their lifetime,
probably born mostly without them, um, the personal ego and so forth. And to restore, uh,
the sovereignty of origin, the divine beings, the transcendent nature of existence and time space.
And so to flip that over and alchemy is the same kind of a process. And there are, you know, various,
uh, potential, uh, answers, right? To like, well, what is it that the humans just to throw away?
Well, I mean, the first thing is fairly obvious. It's just awareness, right? We get rid of that stuff
all day long. Um, some of us, some of the time, but one, one of the possible answers is shit.
Not too many people go around collecting shit. And another possible answer is time,
right? We get rid of that stuff. At least we don't see its value until we realize the incipients of our
mortality. Then we start to pay attention to the value of time. But there's a third thing,
and I'm not claiming the, the alchemists were, um, necessarily aware of this though, um,
people who meditate and people who are spiritually oriented or are seeking
deep awareness and understanding are aware of this, uh, if not consciously, subconsciously.
And this is the awareness of purpose.
And what you will discover is that if you pay careful attention to this purpose, right? What's the
purpose that, that for which I forged the interpretive frame that I bring to my
thought, exploration, awareness, creativity, all these things, right? What is the purpose?
And when you watch people speak, like if you're a therapist or you're somebody who
is an analyst or you are an interrogator, right? Then you will pay very close attention to the purpose
that gives rise to, to communications acts. And when you do that, you will see there's this whole other
world underneath the consciousness of the person speaking that they are rarely aware of unless they
are intending to deceive you. Um, and that will give you insight into a vast and otherwise invisible
universe inside this person, which they themselves are usually unaware of unless they are particularly,
uh, deeply a self-exploring kind of person.
And so it's, it's very important, this awareness of purpose. And if you, if you learn to pay attention
to what the purpose, the actual purposes that's generating the purpose, the person's speech,
you're going to see all kinds of crazy stuff that you probably weren't expecting. And some of it's
egoic and some of it is, um, the, the presentation, the assertion of truth or value or rightness or so
forth as a response to an actual insecurity in the person, right? People don't go around declaring
facts unless they're mighty insecure. Um, and there's various other purposes like parading or
peacocking or trying to be impressive or, you know, playfulness. I mean, to make people laugh,
humor is an amazingly fascinating purpose, but it does enchant them with me as well. So it can kind
of serve a couple of purposes, right? I can get a lot of positive attention really quickly if I can
make people laugh, especially if I can make them really laugh, right? Um, that I'll get all kinds of
social and relational benefits out of that. So, you know, one of my purposes here, and by the way,
there are layers of purpose. The superficial ones tend to be fairly obvious, but just a couple layers
below that is some astonishing things that we would discover about ourselves if we would carefully look
into why am I saying what I am saying? Why am I doing what I'm doing? I mean, unless it's a very
simple thing, like I'm going to go to the store because I need some food, right? Why am I doing the
things that I am doing or not doing in relations with other beings and with other humans, right?
This is a source of catalytic insight that will transform your awareness.
And when I look into my own purposes, you know, even today here now, I am
obviously, so one of the things that happens is this is a lot of fun for me. This is exciting.
Imagining an audience who can engage with this material and maybe some people will get some
benefit out of it and they will have new insights and maybe even come back to me and bring me the
capacity for new insights. Like I said, I'm an addict. I want to see better anytime I can.
And this is very different from writing because writing is very haptic and sort of more or less
there's a rationality to writing. And my writing tends to be fairly didactic unless I'm writing poetry
or music or something, but it's very different. What I'm doing here is improvisation. And while I'm
improving, I'm learning all kinds of things about the topics that I'm that I'm exploring and changing
my perspective on shining little lights of awareness on throughout this process. So that's that's pretty
exciting. Obviously, I also just like any other normal human, right? I like attention. I like positive
attention. I tend to not so much like negative attention, but sometimes that even leads to something
unexpected or surprising or beneficial. So, you know, some attention and the possibility of relating
with others who have similar fascinations and are still curious and playful and maybe even humorous that,
you know, there's this whole mysterious field of humans out there that I'm really interested in
in relating with. And even if they're not here present with me, I can imagine them. And so,
I relate with them as if they are here. I relate with you as if you are here in my improvisation.
And then there's, you know, basic egoic stuff like, hey, what about Darren? You know, he's,
he's a guy, you know, he wants to have friends and companions and lovers and things, right? He could,
you know, maybe I'll meet somebody, maybe someone will see me and we'll become best friends or,
you know, I've, I've met people through doing this work that are deeply enriched my lives.
So those are, those are some of the things and there's some base stuff in there too,
right? Which I don't really have to name.
Um, so yeah, there's, there's a lot of purposes, but, but the primary orienting purpose for me,
at least one of the upper layer ones,
is that by elucidating these matters, I gain new insights in the process of doing so,
as well as having just the joy of making these recordings, um, and the disappointment
of losing the previous one. By the way, that Toymaker experience happened in a very strange way.
I wrote 150 pages under a fire of inspiration out of nowhere in the late 90s and the document
disappeared. Computer crashed after I'd saved it, gone. Everything else is fine, document gone.
The same kind of inspiration gripped me again. So I lost that document.
Same kind of inspiration gripped me again in March of 2002. And while writing that thing,
a being showed up in my mind and just started teaching me. Um, so sometimes losing the thing
that we were making, right? Having it accidentally destroyed or not, or even unmade, you know, in the
previous recording, there's, there's no recording. I just, it's not there. I watched myself make the
recording for an hour and a half. And then when I went to save it, I didn't hit the record button
or something, something like that. So life is, you know, fraught with, um,
peculiar, unexpected, often undesired circumstances, but it doesn't mean that we,
you never really know the future, right? You don't know,
you don't know what, what it leads to. And so even when we have very painful,
catastrophic experiences, um,
it's often best to kind of suspend judgment to whatever degree we may be able to
and just continue and engage and explore and discover together, you know, anything that awakens
our curiosity and fascination and enthusiasm and wonder and awe, even terror and playfulness,
all of these things, I love them, right? These are beautiful. These are why we came
to incarnation to protect them and to nourish them and to resurrect each other from the weird,
uh, occlusive sleep of representational cognition and most of what's going on in modern culture,
which really those aren't cultures. This is not civilization. Just let me be clear about that.
That's one of the greatest, the big oxymorons, you know? Um, so yeah, I'm just, I'm so excited
to have this time with you today and even to have lost the previous recording, which I think was
better than this one, but you know, who knows? Maybe it was important for me to be diverted and to do
this again. Um, so yes, thank you for joining me, my weirdlets, my strangelings, and, uh, I so much
appreciate your time and your attention and your curiosity. May your life and mind and dreaming be as
brilliant and wonderful as your presence, your living presence on this world is today. Thank you so
much. Take a moment to comment, ask me questions, like my recordings, airplay does matter to me,
um, or, you know, even support my work. And thanks very much for those of you who do.
I wish you and those you love those who love you and those they love all blessings and a wondrous rest of
your time. Bye-bye for now.
Bye.
Bye-bye.
