I don't want to set the world on fire, I just want to start a flame in your heart.
I just want to start a flame in your heart.
Just in following up on that last note, we were discussing just briefly about modern medicine and the way that it may misunderstand people or the way it may promote a misunderstanding of itself.
And one thing that comes out of that, of course, is the power of placebo.
And it's statistically relevant and well-studied positive benefits for healing.
And Darren, you also mentioned the healing in Greece, the nature of healing the mind.
You know, and there's another direction that I think is really interesting is just the.
To me, what has become really clear is the way modern humans live, you know, in thousands of different aspects is just directly anti life and anti health.
You know, it's.
You know, I don't think it's any it's like very edgy to say that.
People live in the way that they've been inculcated to live and that manifests these physical ailments that they sense and they go to the doctor to get a bandaid.
That numbs them to the ailment so they, you know, more or less can continue living in the.
Strongly, you know, anti social irrational ways.
And so among the catalog of, you know, better cures is not only placebo and and kind of curing the understanding of the illness, but also, you know, curing the mind of the mental habits and, you know, quote unquote facts that.
Um, generate the dysregulation of the body or life that causes the illness, but I don't know if that's, um, I wanted to tack that on, but I don't know if that stirs anything.
Yeah, I want to hear more about your thoughts regarding dentistry.
If anything comes to mind.
Um, because yeah, I feel the same way.
So like, yeah, I want to hear your thoughts.
Oh, it's yeah, it's, it's, uh, I don't know, quite an eye opener.
Um, to me, it was to me anyway.
And the, the trick is, I kind of feel like you asked that question in such a great way.
There's so many directions that that could go.
So let, let me just take a second and go quickly and develop the depth, you know?
Um, so before the, before the recording began, I kind of mentioned my, you know, one of my examples in history of dentistry, you know?
And it was just an infected tooth and the cavity and just the whole idea, you know, the recognition that these cavities that I got when I was younger, I didn't recognize it was a subscription service.
You know, every 10 years or so, they're going to have to go in there and pull the thing out or put in a new one.
Or I didn't, you know, I thought that they were curing me, not that they were drilling a massive hole in me and, and, you know, in my mouth and then packing it in a way that would have to be attended to over and over.
So it was really interesting.
And then I learned also, um, you know, many dentists will say, it doesn't really matter what you brush your teeth with.
You know, you can use any kind of paste or whatever you like.
Um, of course there are recommended ones and there are ones with fluoride and that's interesting, but, um, you know, it doesn't matter so much.
And then I, you know, went to school and learned a lot about biochemistry and you learn about the absorption of minerals, about the importance of ion transfer and ion adsorption.
Things like the, um, the way the cells of the body, um, send electrical signals or open channels and transfer nutrients.
Of course, this is all just normative science, right?
But like, there's some really interesting stuff here.
Um, so, uh, given my really terrible experience with dentistry, I mean, you know, my teeth are fine.
They're great, um, these days, but I then kind of continued to learn more.
Um, I learned about oil pulling in India.
And I learned about how things like coconut water has been used as blood transfusions in the past because it's so nearly matches the, the pH and some of the vital chemistry of blood plasma.
And so, you know, this was really interesting to me and, you know, to then look at a tradition in India and Ayurveda where dental health was maintained through oil pulling and oil pulling, you know, you swish coconut oil in your mouth and there, there's a whole, uh, protocol.
You have to do it a hundred times swishing this way and, you know, whatever.
Um, and what seemed really clear to me at that point anyway, and I maintain this is that, you know, the, uh, the facts obscure the truth off to both sides.
There's this narrow way in which the dentist want to take drills into your mouth.
And on the other hand, you know, an oil pulling, you know, there's a strange protocol.
That's almost like, uh, religious or devotional.
And that's kind of funny, but the, the fact is that I had heard of course, that it doesn't matter what you brush your teeth with and, um, your mouth maintains a whole microbiota that supports your dental health.
Of course, fluoride and other petrochemicals are going to diminish or destroy that.
And so I had also heard about oil pulling and the, the natural, um, the way that coconut oil and its properties can kind of match with your body and adhere to your teeth in particular ways.
Um, was really interesting to me.
So I started making my own toothpaste.
I started making it with a couple of essential oils known for dental health and with coconut oil and holy shit.
It, it just seems to work.
Um, don't have any problems.
And it is really, um, excellent to me, you know, now that's just one of three things.
So quickly get to the next ones.
One thing that became really clear is that in using oil in your mouth and dental health, it, it's interesting that, you know, if you think about what we ingest in terms of energy,
we ingest sugars and we ingest starches and we ingest oils.
These are, you know, oils and fats.
These are the three major sources of energy for the human body and your body handles them differently.
And that's important.
It's very important.
What's really interesting is that, you know, fats and oils are the highest density of energy, but they're kind of the hardest to access.
Where sugars, your body just dumps it straight into your bloodstream.
But we've talked a lot about how Aboriginal societies went from a, you know, a high nutrient plant and, uh, very, uh, clean animal proteins and fats for their diet.
And transitioned into a grain based diet, which is based on consuming starches.
Right.
And what's really interesting, you know, you just look at the archeological record, the way people's teeth fell apart.
Now, beyond that, of course, we have moved into the realm of sugar, you know, an additive that has not, you know, been in human diets, not substantially beyond maybe a hundred years.
And of course, you know, people's teeth are just rotting out of their heads.
And so, you know, there's an obvious correlation there where the, the starches that fuel the, the kind of microbiota and bacteria that dissolve your teeth.
You know, that's the foundation of everyone's diet.
The other thing that became really apparent to me is when I tried to quit sugar, I felt like I was quitting heroin or something.
It was kind of amazing.
Um, I kind of have a on and off relationship with sugar and it's really interesting to me to note how it affects my body.
How I feel when I've had sugar recently or when it's been a week or so since I've last had any sugar.
Um, I noticed the quality of my mind changing the, um, clarity of my ability to think, you know, and, um, I noticed my, my dental, you know, the, just the feel of my mouth was vastly different.
And combined with, you know, uh, kind of a, uh, thermodynamic understanding of metabolizing these energy sources.
Um, when I went away from starches from time to time, you know, which I, I tend to do in like kind of an intermittent fasting way.
I, I'm not a big nerd about this, but you know, the key thing is how much of a difference I've felt and experienced through all these things.
You know, we have talked about the kind of behaviors and emotions and proclivities that a society raised on bread exhibits, you know, and I understand how the biochemistry of that process.
Um, can do things like impact people's moods and their aggression or their senses of joy and peace.
I felt it even in my own body, you know, um, in fact, last night I binged a little bit on these oatmeal cookies, which don't have a ton of sugar, but I had kind of a violent dream.
Um, it was really strange and I'm not saying that's causation, but the correlations, you know, just continue to kind of stack up for me.
And that's really interesting or weird.
Um, but the last thing I'll just say real quick is we've talked a lot about, and this is a topic that I love and, you know, I think maybe we'll explore again soon.
But is the, um, the way that desire loops, the way that our thirst for something can create a feedback loop, which emerges a program or an institution or a, a way, um, an understanding that takes control of us, which is interesting.
And I see dentistry in the same way, you know, we, we have this society, which, you know, is wholesale bent on wrecking all sorts of things, but even our own health and particularly in this case, our teeth, right.
Our dental health.
And it's fascinating to see, you know, the dynamics of an industry.
You can see this in therapy.
You can see this in medicine all over the place, you know, but you can see that the interventions are good enough for a time.
You know, the understandings are just wrong enough that it gets you coming back.
So those are just a few things that come to mind with your question, you know, but it's a great, I love the question curious what you're thinking or where anyone wants to take it.
Well, isn't fluoride some kind of industrial waste product.
Isn't it created through like fertilizer production and then it's resold in another market.
Yeah.
Yeah.
They get you coming in going.
Sorry.
Yeah.
What is the, you know, it's, it's kind of surprising.
I'm in one of the few places in the country that doesn't fluoridate its water.
And, you know, just given my experience with, you know, what I, what I learned or whatever with not only biology, biochemistry, but also with environmental toxins, environmental pollution.
Wow.
No, no institution gives a crap about the health of Americans.
It's really breathtaking.
Given the state of water supplies in the United, you know, across America today.
You know, people don't even recognize the tip of the iceberg about how dangerous even just drinking water is, you know, but then you do something and add a low level fluoride, you know, a light neurotoxin.
And I, I don't know, I wouldn't pretend to have studies on how this impacts our neurology or overall health or day to day, you know, clarity and cognition.
Um, but I, I have a, you know, just kind of like, um, you know, uh, from, from my training in science, just kind of a way that I kind of, uh, want my water to be handled.
And I noticed when I travel, even drinking chlorinated water now really upsets my gut.
It really bothers me and I can't do it.
Um, can't do it for more than two or three days.
And, and that difference just in, you know, the tap water from some other place versus the water that I filter myself, um, you know, really kind of impresses me about how fucked up, you know, this, the system is and how it makes our health.
Now, would you be willing to share your toothpaste formula with us?
Oh, sure.
Yeah, of course.
It's a piece of cake.
That's cool.
You know, you just take, um, um, coconut oil.
You know, it's, it's, it's pseudo solid.
It melts it kind of like, you know, just above room temperatures and the essential oils.
Um, let me just see if I can recall them.
Clove oil is great.
You know, uh, I just kind of ballpark it, you know, I, I take, um, I don't know, maybe, uh, a quarter cup of coconut oil and get it just kind of warm.
So it's a little liquid and drop in probably to that level about 15 or 20 drops of clove oil, maybe five or 10 drops of pepperoni oil and a little bit of tea tree oil if I feel like it.
And you can have toothpicks that are used in the same way or coated in the same way that I really enjoy.
You know, this is really nice.
Um, but I'm reminded, uh, I forget the name, but there's a culture in Africa that use a certain stick.
Um, you know, you kind of chew on the end of the stick and the, there's a, the, the bark is basic and pH, you know, which helps, um, things like calcium adhere to your teeth and promotes a good, uh, mouth microbiome.
I think that that's really fascinating.
I forget the name of the stick or the culture that uses this, but, um, you know, that's an interesting look into.
I should probably research more.
Oh, that's the, uh, that's my toothpaste formula.
Oh, the last thing, sorry, the coconut oil, those essential oils.
And I add some baking soda as well.
That's it.
Basically all to taste.
Excellent.
Thank you.
Yeah, I, I take that kind of, it's just a window, you know, there's, um, if there are problems on that front, you know, of course there are problems on many other fronts.
Many other interesting, you know, situations.
Um, have you seen research about knee surgeries or other surgical interventions in the placebo effect?
Yeah, there was one book on this, which I can find for you, but yeah, he basically argues that knee surgery is entirely a placebo effect of some kind.
Um, so you can wash the knee without doing anything and, and the same effects, uh, result.
So yeah, it's really fascinating.
I'll find the book.
There's a, um, there's a, um, there's a document on my medium, uh, channel called notes from beyond.
And there's a video.
And there's a video.
It's a gigantic document, but there's a video in that document about the placebo effect is quite good and is available online.
And I think it discusses, unless I miss my, unless I'm misremembering, I think it discusses knee surgery particularly.
Oh yeah.
Um, it's called surgery, the ultimate placebo by Ian Harris and check that out.
Um, I think it would be a mistake, but I'm not trying to, um, tell anyone what to think, but I think it would be a mistake to dismiss.
Allopathy.
Agreed.
Uh, it should be blatantly obvious that there are many situations in which, um, allopathic medicine and allopathic dentistry work as advertised functions, save lives, um, that would otherwise almost certainly be lost.
Uh, but there's a kind of a weirder question in the background here, I think, which is rather than trying to determine which thing humans do is truthful or veritable, right?
Like, is what the Greeks were doing in Alephsis the right way to heal humans, or is the hospital the right way to heal humans?
Um, there's something much weirder going on, which is a kind of, um, a kind of, uh, a sort of surreptitious hypnosis.
Um, and when I began to study hypnosis, um, perhaps what, 10 years ago now or something, I strongly recommend anybody even vaguely interested, you know, get like, uh, I have this book here.
That's quite a big tome and it's astonishing.
It's called an Ericksonian Approaches, a comprehensive manual.
You know, formal hypnosis is relatively straightforward.
Um, there's a client, there's a practitioner.
You sit the client down, place them in trance.
They place themselves in trance at your behest, however you want to model it.
But what I'm trying to get at here, which is kind of weird, is that it's like our cultures are a universe and our body responds to that universe according to the instructions it's been given.
So we might have the idea of the placebo effect backwards, right?
It's not the placebo effect.
It's this other thing that nobody's really looking at or few people look at.
I think Robert Anton Wilson, um, talks about this kind of thing.
Yeah, it's more like our existence is a kind of a trance.
And when you study hypnosis, you immediately realize that people are hypnotized all the time.
Pretty much all the time.
They rarely come out of it.
So all you're really doing is redirecting the form and the flow of what's already going on.
Does that make any sense?
I think so.
I think I follow.
Um, and I'm, I'm curious about the, um, yeah, the reversal, I guess, to think about those words better.
So I'll try to give an example, um, which I found startling, even though, you know, I have some experience with hypnosis on a modest amount, but also I'm not an expert.
Um, I was having someone deliver groceries.
They'd had an accident on the way on their skateboard and work, you know, in a lot of pain.
And the person was a very tough, tough guy who'd been in prison and through a lot of fights and stuff.
And it was clear he was in a lot of pain and he was also pissed off and he was partly pissed at me.
And, um, over a period of about four minutes, basically, I just said, look, I can make that pain go away.
It's like, I don't have time for this.
And I said, do you have three minutes?
It was like, what do you mean?
I said, just sit down.
I'll make it go away.
Okay.
So he sat down and quickly put him in trance.
I gave him like two very basic suggestions.
I just said, like, I'm going to touch your knee.
When I do that, you're going to forget all about the pain.
You won't be able to feel it unless you need to feel it for your safety.
It's just going to go away.
And so when I pull my finger off your knee, you're going to feel all that pain just disappear.
That's all I said.
I woke him up and he was a completely different person.
He was like, what the fuck did you do?
I feel amazing.
There's no pain at all.
Right.
And you can imagine that this is just, you know, post trance.
Euphoria or whatever.
But what I told him was, I want you to check in with me over the next few days.
And if the pain comes back at all, call me.
And I'll call you and check in on you and just see what's going on.
And I checked in on him a couple of days later.
And I was like, do you ever feel the pain again?
He's like, no, not at all.
Not at all.
It's gone.
So what is pain?
Right.
What the fuck is going on there?
There are much deeper questions than whether or not our medical approaches are sound.
We may have misunderstood the fundamental situation of like being alive in such a way that leads to a variety of kind of reality tunnels, which our body obeys as if we're be as if we're undergoing hypnotic suggestion.
What is the actual nature of illness and injury?
Right.
There is a mechanical aspect to it.
Yes.
I think the Greeks were well aware of all of these matters in different ways.
I don't know what their awareness is like.
And I also mean certain Greeks.
But I think what they realized was that what was really necessary for healing was a revision of the trance state that those who are sick or injured have become enmeshed in.
I could give examples from my own experience, but that would be a little personal.
So, yeah, it's it's I think it's useful to question allopathic medicine and the way that medicine is handled in modernity, for sure.
No problem.
I agree.
A lot of that stuff is crazy and some of it's very functional.
But if we really want to understand what's going on, I think we need to understand something much deeper, which is like, are any of the myths that we live by veritable?
Including, for example, you know, the alternate myths.
When somebody commits to a practice like oil pulling, what are they really doing?
Well, they're changing their understanding of what the body is and they're instructing the body to respond through a practice that is reiterated over time.
I'm not trying to claim that there's no efficacy in the practice.
There's like no mechanical efficacy there.
That's not my claim.
So I'm going to leave it here and see what other people may have to think or say about it.
Well, part of it could be the reaction to the pain itself.
So if I say hit my knee on a dolly, you know, those things we move really heavy objects with that really hurts.
But I don't in my mind, I don't immediately catastrophize about it.
I sort of have a method of how I deal with it.
I just put my palm on the place where it hurts and I rub in a circle and gradually it goes away.
Sometimes it takes a little longer.
Yeah, a couple of nights ago, no, like four nights ago, I was in the enclosure with patches and she was acting a little distressed.
But and she was standing next to me, so she paced the fence line and then come back and stand next to me.
And I found where her heartbeat was and I did that.
And eventually she sat down and then she started falling asleep.
So did you physically touch her?
Yes, I was basically hugging her and I was hugging her and I was rubbing in a circular motion over her heart.
When you, you know, when you mentioned the example about the dolly in pain, I'm just reminded of.
There was an account I read of a early explorer discussing Native Americans and they noted and I thought this was odd.
It stood out to me that they rarely cry out when struck or wounded.
And that fascinated me, you know, just as an observation from a colonial person.
So, you know, what's interesting, you know, the direction that we're applying here, I think, is fascinating in the sense that, you know, just to describe where we're coming from.
And then I am excited to go where you're indicating down, you know, where we're coming from, we're coming from this, you know, this place of cultural or knowledge resonance.
You know, where there are these feedback loops that create these ideas that train us with these reactions that instill these beliefs that, you know, they're really interesting that, you know, and some not entirely.
Entirely, you know, not, you know, cases matter and particulars are important, but they're getting people to think of their bodies in this way.
They're getting people to think of illness in this way and they're getting people to think of cures in this way.
You know, like we might be implying, like forgetting what we actually are.
You know, the the idea of the body being a projection of a different underlying reality that's kind of constructed in real time.
I think along your texts recently, Tyler, right?
Like this is really fascinating.
It reminds me of this guy, Joe Dispenza.
This guy, Joe Dispenza, he's doing a thing right now.
Now, I have some friends that are really into Joe Dispenza.
So I've been checking it out a bit.
You know, I this long history.
I mean, there's the the Greek healing traditions.
There's you know, I've read all sorts of stuff about, you know, gynecologists and other sorts of people like doing all, you know, breaking chicken bones.
And of course, the shamanic rituals of healing that I mean, we would probably, you know, this culture would be tempted to label that placebo.
But there's something interesting going on.
So with these friends, I'm not really motivated by health.
I think it's just not a problem for me.
But a lot of my friends who are really into Joe Dispenza are very motivated by their own ailments, you know, and there's some serious ailments.
And it's really interesting from the outside looking at this.
And lots of these people are saying that they've been faith healed or miraculously cured, you know, in interesting ways.
And so I started to study what Dispenza is doing a bit.
And what he's doing is rooted in this belief, you know, in a set of beliefs, not particularly clear.
Right. Which is reasonable about quantum physics and materiality and the nature of the body.
But anyway, he has all these people stuck in these loops and they have ailments.
You know, no doubt many of them are, you know, mechanical in nature.
But one of his recent books goes into a long example about a woman who, you know, developed chronic stress and then all of these, you know, physical manifestations as a result of that, that just were absolutely piling on and ruining her life.
And so he's doing this thing, you know, initially, probably through books, I think, which induce a sort of trance state or change it and trying to get people to understand their bodies and lived experiences differently.
And then people are going to these retreats where, you know, for a week or whatever, there are 800 people and together they meditate and together they speak and together they kind of re-envision their bodies being whole and healthy in a resonant way.
And I haven't done any of this, you know, with Joe Dispenza and all this stuff, but what's fascinating is the number of people who do say they are somehow healed from this.
And I don't know if that re-imagining of reality stirs up, you know, again, more conversation about this, but there, you know, there's a movement afoot in the United States doing this and that's interesting.
So for what it's worth.
So there's some things that are apparent to me, considering what we were just sharing, Cornfed, and one of them I think is really important.
And it's something that in a, you know, in a kind of a limited way we do here, is that, so one of the things Toymaker said was that there are a couple of pivots of human power.
And most people are not aware of them.
Two that come to mind immediately that he pointed out to me was to be aware, to forge a layer of your awareness that observes the purposes underlying action, your actions and your inactions.
Including speech.
Um, and then to be able to expand that to look at the purposes underlying the actions and inactions of human groups.
That's one of them.
Um, this practice or game play is extremely powerful because we normally don't like if you watch someone speaking in your face to face with them.
If you're very, if you're sensitive to the language of their facial expressions, you will immediately see that there's a difference between their purpose and what they're saying.
And there's a difference between what they're saying and what they mean.
Um, and these differences are quite profound.
So often people will communicate one thing with their face and a completely different thing or even, um, a conflicted thing.
Right.
Something that conflicts with what they're feeling with their speech.
So the first thing is purpose, but the second thing is agreement.
Basically what he said is that one of the primary powers you have as a human being.
It is almost completely overlooked is your capacity to agree.
Um, in other words, to authorize something and your capacity to, uh, defect from agreement.
You don't have to disagree.
You can simply hold the space of what not knowing, or, you know, there's a lot of options for the not agreeing part.
Um, the reason I mentioned this is that it's, it should be very obvious that if Joe Dispenza gets 800 people together.
Whom he has instructed in a paradigmatic ontology of health and healing and these 800 or, you know, even 20, right?
These people, they agree about this together.
What they are doing.
Uh, one of the things they can be understood to be doing is they are reforging the ontology in which they enter trance.
Together.
Right.
They're reforging the basis of their group hypnosis into a mode that differs from the group hypnosis.
They are participating in and subject to outside of Joe, like culture, whatever.
Um, again, this from a, from a sort of helicopter view, right?
From, from a view above the human view.
It looks like the humans establish what we could call nations of hypnotic proposal, right?
And what are the proposals?
Well, the proposals are what you are, who you are, what it means to be human, what it means to be an animal, what the sky is, what the sun is, what the world is, what food means, what injury means, what illness means.
All of these things.
So there's this invisible kind of semi or acutely hypnotic lexicon that underlies.
How we feel, what we make of experience, how we relate with illness or injury.
I mean, you can imagine a people, right?
Who simply believe we can invent ontologies like Joe's, right?
Imagine the people who simply believe the injury or illness in any human being or even an animal is absolutely holy.
There's nothing wrong with it at all.
It's not there to be cured.
It's not even there to be fixed.
What it is, is that person is taking on the toxicity and pain.
And perhaps, you know, demons, whatever, that would otherwise infect the whole group, and they're just localizing it in a way that is messianic.
Well, no, I mean, that was the traditional understanding.
Right.
Sure.
Yeah.
Fair enough.
All I'm trying to get at is, you know, it's the unconsciously held hypnotic ontologies that humans learn to relate with themselves as.
Me too, right?
Like, I'm, I can see these things.
It doesn't liberate me from them just to see them.
I'm not sure what does liberate me from them, particularly, but seeing them is helpful.
And weirdly, you know, there's been a pretty significant decrease in the pain in my neck as we've been talking.
Yeah.
And I had some healers working on me and they were like, you know, as far as we can tell, you're dead set against healing.
Like, we're not, we're not able to heal you because you've decided not to heal.
Um, and that was, you know, interesting.
Um, there are certainly psychological aspects to injury.
It might be that most of the aspects are psychological, but of course, I think we would recognize that things like a cavity in a tooth or a bone that is broken or, you know, other significant mechanical problems, including certain.
You know, illnesses of organs and so forth, um, are not merely psychological.
Yeah.
I really, the cohorts of ontology and affect, you know, that you described, you know, beautifully put.
Um, I kind of wonder, um, you know, and this is, George, you might recognize this content.
I'm curious if you have reactions, but of course, anyone else too.
But it's interesting in our waking perception, we have this opportunity, you know, to navigate what is apparently the material world and effect it with our will.
And it's, it's notable that in the waking world, you know, we can use our same will, our same understanding in a symmetrical way to navigate our minds and effect their contents and their structures.
You know, in, um, you know, in a dreaming world, we have this ability to navigate the interiority of the contents of our psyche, whatever that is.
I don't, God only knows, you know, and I wonder why we wouldn't correspondingly or somehow symmetrically, you know, maybe in a way I don't understand yet.
Um, have the ability to navigate the interiority of our bodies and affect it with our will.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
One day I mentioned that language is a controlled hallucination.
So I wonder, Darren, whether you see a connection between what I said yesterday and your understanding of hypnosis.
What do you see there?
Oh, yeah, absolutely.
Yes.
Um, very clearly, of course, I do.
Um,
So it's as if there's a late, there's a, I often find it useful to think of awareness, much like reality as comprised of layers and the representational layer, which is the layer in which we think, feel or experience, uh, according to the underlying lexicons,
like what stuff is, what the world is, you know, there are these root features that if you change them, like the world, if you change what the world is, all other things change, that should be obvious.
Um, and the humans keep introducing these essentially technological ontologies, um, from physics and so forth.
Uh, and I, I personally, I find it sort of silly and tragic, but not merely that there are interesting features as well.
When humans use, um,
wildly, uh, crude, they transfer, actually what they do is they get, they grab authority from science to support some, um, personal ontology or religion.
Um, and they're like, oh yeah, it's quantum physics, bro.
Yeah.
It's all just in the superposition and you collapse it with your, you know,
right?
Like, okay, your understanding of quantum physics is basically nil.
It has nothing to do with what quantum physics is, says, or does.
Um, so I find that, uh, kind of tragic and stupidifying while still remaining open at the same time.
Um, I don't like it.
I realize that's one of my biases too.
Um, but yeah, so there's this underlying trance and the trance.
This is what Korzybski, right?
Was fundamentally trying desperately to communicate in his profoundly over articulate manner.
Um, there's a trance, right?
And the trance orbits one specific feature of representational cognition.
And that feature is identity.
What is it?
And this is what the ontologies are there to answer.
They tell us what it is.
Yeah.
So even the idea of injury, right?
Um, is it actually something specific?
Is it a thing?
It's very complicated.
Um, the person next to me is alive and experiencing reality.
They are not experiencing my injury.
Um, so where is my injury?
Uh, so yeah, I think language, um, induces trance in the representational layer, which profoundly connects itself and influences other layers, whatever those may be.
Um, and that's problematical.
Of course, Zipsky outlined a discipline, uh, to escape that trance, which he calls non Aristotelian logic or null a.
The basic proposal of which.
Is.
The.
Refusal.
To assert identity.
Under any circumstance.
Non on a variety of other corollary disciplines.
For example, the concept of non all miss.
Um, you will find humans consistently myself included.
We'll make declarations that appear perfectly complete, right?
I lost a hundred dollars at the casino.
It's presented as a complete fact.
And Korzybski discovered that this single valued ontology is basically a machine for self different deception.
Um, it proposes.
That we know completely.
What an event or situation is, was, does its value, so forth.
That is formally impossible.
There is nothing.
About which that can be true.
So there are a variety of, um, habitual deceptions underlying, not necessarily language itself.
But how we as moderns employ it.
And those can be discovered and overcome.
Yeah.
Well, the narrative buttresses self hood.
So when you talk about identity, I immediately think of self hood, the concept of the self, as opposed to substances or what other beings are.
But there's a link between them.
So you realize that in developing ontologies of objects, you really end up self narratizing.
So by, by rendering your ontology more plastic, you're basically making your ego more plastic.
And that seems to be the, the portal.
That's like, that seems to be the deeper, um, the deeper problem.
So yeah, I think, you know, language itself is something like an externalized dream mechanism.
Um, and that's why I said that it's a controlled form of hallucination.
Because if dreams arise when perception inverts, um, relying purely on the body's morphology, its internal temporal structure, then hallucinations arise when this inversion is incompletely.
It's completely, um, reintegrated into the image of the external world.
So psychosis would be something like, uh, the destabilization of symbolic time, but there's a link between symbolism or your lexicon and your sense of self.
So there's, there's a link between the language that you use and your, your own identity.
Um, I think that non-ordinary states such as psychosis or whatever, um, depend largely on some other features that it's at least important to mention.
Um, so like, um, there's, uh, stop using filler words.
Uh, no, I'm not.
All right.
So.
Let's see here.
We can pause it to very similar states or not states, but situations in consciousness or awareness.
And we'll call one psychosis.
Um, we'll call the other one, um, prodigious creativity.
So these states are, they have a lot of things in common.
These situations have a lot of things in common, but there's something resembling the character, the purpose of character and orientation underlying the state.
And that's where I would differentiate between psychosis and say a moment of an actual experience in which prodigious creativity is at play without it endangering the coherence of the self.
So in psychosis, like in creativity, what happens is the self express we can imagine expresses into a space of possibility.
Whereas in psychosis, it's, it seems more as if usually realizing that psychosis is, is a continuum of many different things that the polarity is inverted.
And so the self becomes subject to usually deleterious, threatening, formidable, malignant, malevolent, um, intrusions of exotic mind forms.
So one seems to be expressive and the other is impressive in this toy that I'm just trying to put together to differentiate.
Hmm.
Genius is a lot resemble like experiences genius, not just this guy's genius.
The experience in the activities of a, of a prodigy.
Uh, and I think we are each here prodigies in our own ways.
Though George's prodigy seems rather monumental in my view.
Um, these experiences of prodigy have to do with directing the formative flow of awareness or consciousness.
In specific ways that lead to highly novel, uh, insights or activities or experiences.
I'm not sure if any of that was useful.
I'm gonna stop lathering now.
No. Yeah. I mean like, but yeah, no, that makes a lot of sense to me because you can make sense of how the mind could heal the body.
If the link between the dream and the hallucination is based on something like what you're describing.
So in the dream world, the imagery arises from the temporal structure of the body as a template.
So this is the inversion of the usual process that takes place in perception.
But the hallucination then is the exteriorization of that process.
So it's, so there, there would be some kind of link between the psychotic state inaugurated by Korzybski's general semantics and healing, which I think is what you're getting at.
At least as far as my toy goes.
Yes.
There, there is this weird, um, polar inversion.
That occurs in the difference between waking world stuff and sleeping world stuff.
And it's like in the waking world, there is the cotton, the continuous fact of the existence and pervasiveness of sunlight.
But often you can actually see the sun, though a few of us rarely look at it.
And so there's this exteriorization, right?
Of the sun.
But in the sleeping world, this is one of the reasons why I love this question.
What is the source of the illumination in dreams in the sleeping world?
The, the fact of the exterior sun is gone.
It is gone.
Yeah.
You can say, well, it's just on the other side of the world.
Okay.
Yeah, fine.
But it's gone.
Your explanation doesn't matter because the thing ain't there.
Right?
Now it may be there in the memory.
This is what really Tripoli associates the moon with memory.
Right?
Because moonlight is the memory of sunlight in a way.
It is the, the ghost of sunlight.
Hmm.
So in the dream, what happens is resembles the rising of an internal sun.
What is that?
What is that?
It's not the sun, though, of course, it couldn't exist without it, theoretically.
So there's this reverse polarization that occurs where the external sun and the externality of light becomes the internal illuminator and the internality of light form meaning.
And it's just this, this one transition in our experience is so astonishing and so profoundly fraught with the possibilities of insight.
It's mysterious.
I don't have the answer, but I just marvel at it.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I mean, cognition doesn't arise from sensory input either.
Yeah.
I mean, what, what that shit arises from?
I would love to know.
Well, yeah, but I think the same process is probably at work either way.
So what arises as light in the external world is similar to what arises in the dream environment.
Because either way, there are temporal layers, something like temporal layers, something like retrieval keys or gateways, but their, their manner of arising is inverted.
There's a kind of inversion and the body punctuates that inversion.
So you can, you can reconstruct light either way.
And this is why I said that space can arise in either direction, either by moving out or by moving in.
And so this is the sense in which space is downstream from what I'm calling time.
So time is more fundamental than space in my view, for that reason, because you can engender space from time in either direction.
So in one direction, you perceive this consensus reality, and in the other direction, you perceive a dream environment, which is reassembled from the temporal structure of your own morphology.
So your body becomes a world generating mechanism in the dream environment.
But both, both sources of light have a similar kind of process of arising, because they take place through these layers that become more compact as the organism evolves.
So we were talking about like the density of these retrieval keys in, in the body of a, like an animal.
It's that density that gives rise to the perception of light, I think, within the dream landscape.
And because the same mechanism underpins cognition, it's what cognition is.
It's the same thing.
So there's, there's something really important here.
One particular phrase that you used a moment ago.
In sleep, something is generating worlds.
And we experienced them.
I don't know.
I don't even know what's experiencing them, to be honest.
We, I don't know.
But we have experience of them, but which we can later sometimes recall.
The proposition of the Castanedan branch of shamanism and the Toltecs and the Aztecs and, you know, the South American branches and probably almost, almost certainly, obviously other branches as well.
Is that we're doing the same thing while we're awake.
We are generating a world image.
The mode is different.
In dreaming, we can become lucid and realize that somehow we are the origin of the world images.
Although we don't usually have that particular realization.
Mostly it looks something like, oh, wait, this is a dream.
And if that doesn't just wake you up, then you start to become lucid with all kinds of possible effects.
But what would be the corollary in waking consciousness?
It would be the same thing.
Yeah.
It's just much less likely because of the physical continuity and convincingness over time.
Right?
See, in the dream, the world dissolves when you wake up and it usually doesn't reemerge in the same way again later.
You usually don't remember like, oh, yeah, I dreamed this before and etc.
Though that does sometimes happen.
But the incredible fact of the physical continuity.
Right?
My doorway is never not there when I wake up.
Um, is so convincing that we're unlikely to ever come to the understanding.
Uh, in actual awareness that I am generating this.
It seems inconceivable, especially to the modes of thought and relation that are common while we're awake.
They are ant antipathetic to that recognition.
But this was the absolute assertion of the shamans.
And they had this thing, which I think is the corollary of lucid dreaming that they called stopping the world.
And they didn't mean you put an end, you know, you, you cause the world to stop spinning or something like that.
They meant, um, ceasing to, to use the energies of awareness to preserve the appearance of an illusion that you think of as the reliable continuous physical waking world and the identities, the ontologies associated with that.
Right.
So we think it's the world that's stable, but it's really your own sense of self that gives the world its sense of stability.
That I guess that's what I was initially trying to get at when I, when I, you know, spoke of selfhood and personhood, it's the ego that gives the world structure and it's symbolically mediated.
It's mediated by language.
So language functions like the body itself because it allows the image of the external world to remain more or less stable.
So in the dream environment, the world can collapse when you become a center of action.
So usually you experience that as, um, realizing that you're in a dream or something, but really what I think takes place is that your body starts to become more like a center of action as in the external world.
So that's why the image collapses, but the same process can take place in waking consciousness.
But it looks more like it's very similar because your, your focus is turned inward.
It starts to become more, more action oriented.
Right.
And that's what causes the, uh, it can induce a psychotic break because language is no longer providing the stability that it once did.
Your ego starts to, it starts to evaporate.
It's like waking up from a dream.
It's a sort of inversion from the other world.
Right.
Because mostly what we perceive in external space are action dependent affordances.
So we perceive possibilities in external space, possibilities of action with our own bodies as centers of action.
Um, yeah, what's interesting about this is that I, you know, I might worry that the idea that we wake up to the world and it, it bears, uh, a steadiness.
That was the same as the last time we woke up to this world.
Um, there, you know, it, it seems to induce a dualism there, you know, the sense that the world I woke up to today, you know, the material world, perhaps it's.
And I don't know, you know, but perhaps it's not material because it exists outside of me, but it is the world that I ordered and structured and constructed yesterday.
Um, imbued with identities and designations yesterday.
The way that I wake up to the world today, you know, it's the creation of my yesterdays.
I wonder if there's again, uh, inverse symmetry to plunging into the non-centered reality of the dream, you know, structured, organized by the body in that way, um, or somehow by the memory, you know?
Um, I don't know, you know, for what it's worth, I think that there's a, we are building this world around us, not in a material way, but in an experiential way.
And that's the experience we wake up to each day, but perhaps there's difference there. I'm curious.
Oh no. So yeah. Where does the dualism enter for you?
Well, you know, there's a, there's a, a sense that the world exists beyond me, beyond my experience that I, you know, the normative senses that I wake up each day to this world that was as it was before.
Right. But the, the trick there is that it ignores the fact that I structured it through my actions in the previous time.
Like I, I am molding the physical world, you know, the quote unquote physical world around me and my experience of it and the experiences I care carry forward from it in my everyday moment of waking life.
Yeah. Yeah.
It's one thing.
Mm hmm.
Yeah, it's you.
Exactly.
Yeah.
And of course, you know, you realize that it's you.
Yeah, I think that's, that, that's the analogy to the dream environment.
So in the dream environment, it's like, oh, this is a dream. But in the external world, it's like, oh, this is me. This is, there's no, there's no distinction.
And that's, that's usually what I call knowledge. Like that's what, that's what like a cognitive act is in my view. But that's, that's another matter.
Yeah, but either way, the morphology of the body is structuring it or continuous with it. So what we call our bodies are fundamentally the same process as external space. So that's the sense in which it's you. There's no, there's no real difference.
difference. So in the same way that you could reconstruct your entire body and evolutionary history from any region of your body.
any, any region of space contains enough information to reconstruct the entire universe. So there's no real distinction between you and the external world.
Yeah, just to take that further still, you know, you know, in just to continue to banish, you know, to try to chase out the dualism or whatever, you know, and I hope this isn't restating anything.
But, you know, it seemed, you know, something I read about psychiatry really fascinated me.
As people get deeper into psychiatry, and as they work with more and more people, they recognize, they start to understand that, of course, the label, the identity, the concept of sanity itself is very slippery.
You know, it's extremely, well, subjective, at best, right?
What is our consciousness, you know, is it is it a logic that reflects the effected material world beyond us?
Well, no, you know, this sets the table for the thing that you've often said, George, which is that our experience of the external world is a menu of affordances offered to us, you know, an opportunity space from which to explore and enact, right?
It's a series of relationships with, you know, it's a series of relationships with, you know, in space itself is the, you know, the opportunity to affect that affordance, right?
Yeah.
And so the material world is only the sum, well, at least for me, if not all beings, you know, it is the sum of the affordances we've chosen to affect.
Yes, right.
It presents itself the next day as the result, you know.
Right.
Yeah.
So, yeah, so the image of the external world is already the effect of selection, is already a creative product.
So what we call psychism isn't actually anomalous.
It's what we're already doing.
So I think the placebo effect reveals that we're already doing this.
It just depends on certain constraints.
So there seems to be something that impedes our ability to affect initially our own morphology, but then the external world.
And that filter or lens has something to do with language.
I'm very, you know, becoming more convinced of that.
And that's why the whole discussion of hypnosis was of interest to me because hypnosis simply unlocks the same process that we already participate in through our active, you know, engagement with and construction or reconstruction of reality.
So there's.
Yeah.
You know, maybe it's not time, but there's a piece on tools that I want to chase down in that direction, too, at some point.
Right.
If anything, modern medicine, medicine is the anomaly.
Whereas the placebo effect is probably ancient knowledge and well established.
I doubt they'd have called it anything like that, that that phrase, we should pick a different phrase because that phrase.
It carries derogatory connotations.
Yeah, the content has been slain.
Right.
It's like it's it's a phrase from the clinical evaluative aspect of thought and linguistic conception and so forth.
Right.
So I mistrust.
Right.
So I mistrust.
We but we all know what we mean.
I think, well, we know what, what we're pointing out with the phrase, but I would just suggest that phrase is quite compromised.
For example, what is actually meant by the placebo effect is something like inexplicable healing.
And if any kind of healing is explicable, I would love to see it.
Yeah.
In fact, anyone who thinks they can explain anything, I'd be very interested in that.
This whole explanation thing is pretty weird.
Well, then when the placebo effect be the perfect term.
Say more.
Well, if the placebo is an inexplicable healing, then if you're saying that healing is inexplicable, then wouldn't placebo be the perfect term?
Well, let's let's find out what this word placebo.
Maybe magic would be better.
No, I just think something like I don't even know.
What is this word?
I don't even know what the word means.
Oh, that's interesting from the Latin placere to please to the Latin placebo.
I shall be acceptable or pleasing.
This is great.
This is a great sense of the word.
A substance that has no therapeutic effect.
Which substance is that?
And yet somehow yields therapy.
Right.
Let's look at the etmology.
This is very interesting.
Early 13th century name given to the right of Vespers by the office of the dead.
So called from the opening of the first ant antifon.
I will please the Lord in the land of the living.
Psalm CXVI 9 in Vulgate.
Placebo Domino and Regione Vivorum.
The Latin placebo.
I shall please future indicative of placere to please.
Medical census recorded in 1785.
A medicine given more to please than to benefit the patient.
It's interesting.
Didn't have no idea.
Pleasing.
Pleasing.
I'm now not even sure I know what to please means.
Etymology is so amazing.
You can just trace the arc, you know.
And of course, like a word such as please has its own separate relative arc.
But anyway, I just I love etymology as well.
Hmm.
Yeah, I noticed that most of my chronic pain is lateralized down my body in systematic ways in ways that I can discern or interrelated.
Like my jaw, for example, I think is related to my hips.
So there seems to be this connection in my life or in my experience between my teeth and my legs, which is really bizarre.
There could be a genetic basis for that, but.
Or like my eye and my shoulder, like there are these bizarre connections that I sometimes become aware of.
And like sometimes I wonder to what extent certain portions of the body could be used to influence or navigate to others like as a kind of terrain.
If you were to imagine the body as a terrain, how, you know, they might be connected in ways that aren't obvious in external space, but.
In ways that the dream environment might make more more evident.
OK, there's something very powerful there.
I'm not sure if I can put my finger on it.
It's like due to some compression effect in external space, which.
Which appears differently in the dream, but.
Yeah.
It's like more more temporally elongated or.
Or something.
So it allows certain memories to to reappear.
So what you're saying, though, bears a resemblance to other things you've suggested about how.
The forms of organisms can be understood in a way that resembles a timeline.
The emergence of form in a sequence of recursively self expressing aspects.
But can be seen in a linear perspective.
such that the actual relationships between what we think of as distinct organs
are invisible to dissection but can be rendered visible
by re-temporalizing the sequence of their emergence in linear time okay
I know that was a big fucking does that make any sense yeah no of course and this is what I'm
always talking about right right great yeah I was trying to say what I what I've taken from what
you've said and in this sense the relationship okay so there's something even weirder going on
which is I would suggest that the relationship between the teeth and the body it's so different
from what we imagine but it might be as if the teeth are
superior instances
of the body's entire structure yeah right right yeah that's what I'm calling a retrieval key you
can use the key to retrieve a larger hole and that's what also happens in memory as in the dream
environment so there's yeah I guess that's the connection that I was going for and also it should
be obvious to anyone who's actually given it some thought and if any of us have been to the dentist
we're we're you know we may have had the similar insights or not but um the teeth are like living
stones they are the rock like the bone is not like rock the teeth are literally like living rocks in our mouth
they enable things that are otherwise impossible they are very strange
uh features of the affordances of the body I think it would be very difficult to speak without them
oh yeah yeah
like I mentioned before how I suspect that the skull encodes information about the rest of the body
but I was recently looking into horse anatomy and I realized that like the body of the horse
um exemplifies this kind of limb based element so like the horse is basically just a big leg you can
see the leg force sort of extended into its toes so like basically the as well as its skull so its
entire face is like a big leg and the teeth I think are carrying elements for that force so as you extend
the leg principle you influence the teeth there's like this interesting connection that I've realized in
my own experience yeah I mean this points up the catastrophic misformulation of anatomy right anatomy just
like our other ontologies it sees separate parts then it puts them back together in the body claims they
have no relationship right the brain is in your head really how do you get a brain without a heart you
don't there are no brains without hearts zero you get brains without livers nope um how do you even get to
the idea of a separate organ you have to make a bunch of catastrophic Lee stupid presumptions to get there and
then once you've done that now you have to defend all those presumptions against any other position
right yeah um on that line you know I I'm interested to develop this a little further still it's uh you
know this is probably obvious from the normative science basis right but like um you mentioned George
that maybe chronic pain has kind of a genetic basis uh you know just as an aside I know you're stretching
you you move to a bigger point uh you know this dissecting approach that you're highlighting Darren
about anatomy yeah it's it's uh oh boy it's wrong yeah it can't these are things again there's this really
weird feature of our modern ontologies and knowledge traditions where you have fundamental assumptions that
not only are wrong it's impossible for them to be correct yeah yet they're asserted as the absolute
authoritative version of reality go ahead sorry oh yeah no it's it's um it's scary what's proffered as
the bedrock of reality through these models so you know we have we have genetics right that that is a
concept at least and there's this idea you know as we've talked about Darwin proffered that organisms
or whatever are the expression of those genetics but you know as folks are learning or better
understanding maybe of course our genes are regulated by a huge host of proteins and enzymes that turn them
on or off depending on environmental stimuli all of our gene replication and construction of proteins and
enzymes from our dreams are heavily regulated again turned on and off in various ways they're turned on and
off by these hormonal signals those hormones come from glands of course that again in this description
are guided by the electrical impulses of the nervous system the nervous system guides the replication of
your genes the expression of their proteins the you know whatever physical again from a normative perspective
based on how you feel and what you think
and it's interesting that your body all of the tissues all of the everything about it has
co I'm going to use the word evolved here maybe co-grown you know has emerged in this complex
interrelationship not just with the electrons of your neurology alone but the very content of
your consciousness throughout but not only that we you know whatever we are are in this complex
interdependent relationship with all of the manifestations of our environment as well
simultaneously and simultaneous to that we're in some kind of arc of development of species and
complexification or you know maybe in the modern sense de-complexifications of environmental context
context but it's fascinating all this stems from consciousness ultimately you know it's a reflection of
it but there's this really interesting thing about a horse being one muscle right and you know what I'm
reminded of if one was to make a video you know like the coke and coca-cola thing is is such a great hook
right there's this other hook that's been spoken of just for a very long time the debate between whether
or not a horse leaves the ground entirely in its gallop right because what this reminded me of is that if
you watch a horse you know being a horse at different speeds at different rhythms at different time scales when it goes from a walk to a trot to there's an intermediate
step you know but to a gallop you see the different rhythms of their interactions play out you know within their context it's it's a rhythmic thing but at its fullest expression you know horses run like their backs arch you know it their fastest most expressed run is one arc of the stretch of their entire body
stretch of their entire body you know one muscle right and of course it's like teeth strapped to a rocket
it's like that leads the charge in almost all animals which is very interesting to me if you dig deep through time and evolution and the nature of origin
um not that that's primary but you know there there's yeah you know one muscle one idea right bringing forth it's it's skull is like a fifth limb so its teeth predominate actually i think its teeth are larger than its brain so if you if you were to take all of its teeth if you sort of see the the cross section of the skull it's really fascinating to me i think it's
um
and yeah the different trots are also really fascinating i think there are four distinguishable trots traditionally um
um yeah but the principle at work here seems to be opposition to gravity so the horse stands on its toes
basically its entire like its entire hand is a leg so the leg has been extended the leg principle has been extended down
like spatialized into the hand and or foot um yeah and it stands up on a single finger its middle finger
so the hoof is actually the middle finger of the of the horse's leg um
yeah so this kind of carrying principle this opposition to gravity is blown up it's like if you were to blow it out
um that sort of inflation also happens in the skull and i think you see it within the the teeth structure
and their their sheer size yeah it's really fascinating there's some kind of connecting link there
and when i mentioned genetics i was talking more about like um these homeobox genes or these body plan genes
or these body plan genes that people like to talk about nowadays like they're like you know proteins or genes can
can uh apparently code for more than one part of the body so when it comes to chronic pain
sometimes i wonder whether the links that i perceive in my own body have a genetic basis or a genetic
correlate but i'm actually not convinced that dna sort of informs the structure of the body
um i'm i'm i'm fairly convinced that there's a distinction there between form and dna so you can change
the dna of an organism without radically altering its form um but these homeobox genes in particular
are interesting because they suggest a link between uh genes and parts of the body
like you know between your teeth and your legs for example like i think your kidneys and your inner ear bone
your inner ear bone are genetically related so if you were to sort of knock out one of those genes
you would affect more than one part of the body because the body is a holistic structure so like even
these h condyls that were part of human evolution very similar so like your um yeah what was it there's
there's like a there's a connection between
encephalization
um
yeah there's a connection between what is it encephalization and like your skin texture
i
forget what they are like these androgen receptors
that were knocked out
like two million years ago
in in homo erectus
presumably
um gave rise to our naked skin
like our relative hairlessness
and our large brains
it was one contributing factor
so it wasn't as if like evolution happened
piecemeal
we were living in a forest environment until
some kind of rapid event took place that
um you know
allowed us to lose our hair
and that sort of opened us up
to traveling on the savannah
so it wasn't like you know like darwin said
um
we sort of left as a complete package
we were already more or less human
like you know it wasn't like lucy
or something like
although lucy probably had a had a place
but
yeah just to that effect
it's notable between
mammals we share some
i don't know upwards of 90
percent of identical
genetics
with things like plants we still share
a substantial amount of our genetics
and that's
and that's that's interesting
for sure
yeah the form of the body is more like a resonance
phenomenon
so it reflects the environment
not like a mirror necessarily but
in terms of certain relations
like if you look at the sheldon spectrum
the distribution of
the sizes of plankton
in the ocean
i think it follows a certain logarithmic scale
so the sizes of
organisms in the ocean
aren't random structures
they weren't randomly evolved or acquired
they're actually some kind of resonance
phenomenon so if you if you knock
out a certain species
the entire ocean changes
just like a human body or any organism
like if you knock out one gene
the entire form changes
and that's what these homeobox genes indicate
but the same phenomenon happens
in the environment
it's like if you take a species out
the entire ecology will transform
just like a just like a body
and that's the sense in which your body
isn't actually distinct from the external world
there's no dualism
between what happens in space
and what happens within your own body
so yeah that's really fascinating too
like these um these scaling laws
in evolution
that your metabolism reflects
like in clibber's law
but the yeah the sheldon spectrum
is another instance of it
so the ocean is a coherent body
the entire ocean is an organism
it's not like a thing or some environment
that things are moving through
and evolving in like that's ridiculous man
it's not really it's not seen in the right way
when when it's approached from that angle
as something that organisms are indwelling
and finding niches within
like that's not going on at all
in my view
yeah i think my favorite analogy of this
you know is yellowstone park
you know as wolves were removed
and elk ran rampant
you know there's a lot
and i'm sure db we've talked about this in the past
but the way the
complex ecosystem
you know this is always described
as like one species
and it's tensioned balance against another
but
the entire character of the park changed
you know
and that speaks to the
truth behind it
yeah you know and
one of the things that these so-called wildlife managers
don't understand is that
these things kind of grow from the bottom up
so
say in alaska for instance
they think that like killing 80% of the wolves will magically make
the moose numbers boom
and they don't even factor into their little analysis
you know the impacts the human impacts of destroying the actual basis for moose to survive so
um i don't know if it's just deliberate or they are really that stupid but yeah it's like
like you can see the the wolves and other kind of uh carnivore animals is like a feedback loop
that is completely dependent on say the
moose elk deer
uh hare rabbit etc
feedback loop
and that's dependent on the the bigger feedback loop which is the entire habitat
the ocean cycles
um the seasons in which the all these animals are accustomed
um the health of the
uh the flora
the soil and the insects especially
um
yeah so
uh yeah
it's it's i've always seen it as a
as a body as a gigantic body
the terrain the sky
and the uh and the ocean
and the rivers and the mountains is like a
is a body
and so uh
mostly what what these wildlife managers do is harmful i think
i um
there's a direction here i think
um is really interesting
at least to me but
you know i i don't
i don't want to entirely depart if others have
thoughts on this but
um
so there's this kind of con
you know environment ecological awareness
you know the of
i just call it the gaia thing you know
but
if we take that
and individualize it again
you know and take it from the perspective
of
i wanted to say an actor within that environment but like you know that is already complicated right
it's
it's it's interesting that
the wolves desire the elk
you know
and that
the desire
the the need or the love
you know i don't know it shapes the elk
right
and at least for disease
at least for over grazing
at least for over grazing
at least for in so many ways
the
the elk are shaped by the wolves
and of course shape the wolves
and
together you know this shapes
yellowstone park
or plankton in the ocean
in
in this way it's it's really interesting
we often think that we plant corn
everywhere
you know
we desire corn
um
but of course from another perspective
the corn has become the most successful plant on the planet
interestingly
occupying more hectares and getting more care
than practically any other plant on the planet
and so
you know in a way we
desire the cheap calories
and the
you know
um corn chips we
and the corn desires
our shelter
our service
you know our our agency of it
and together from that desire
from that mutual
set of desires
a whole world erupts
a world of
well whatever this is
you know lots of people that's for sure
um
global warming and disney movies
it erupts from that
system which is so
we can take this back a step
when
the church desired bread
maybe the church desired bread
to feed armies
or because it was fungible
it needed
some human servant
to plow the field and plant it
you know just
just the way the ants
carry aphids
to my garden plants
to
then consume the aphids
or their their due
you know a sweet nectar
there's this relationship there
it's really interesting to me
four words you know the
the caves were adorned
not with literal depictions
of the deer
but this
fetishized
depiction you know
like if you look at the cave paintings of course in France
and whatnot other people know this much better than I
but it's notable
how artistic and non-literal
they are
there's this idea alive
you know in what they're depicting
i can't
you know i don't know what it's like
to to feel
being a wolf chasing deer
i you know and and at some point
we were humans who had this intimate relationship
with our game
we chased each other around the earth as the sun crossed our paths a thousand times for eons
we had this relationship
we had this relationship and from it erupted
a world
you know and all the other relationships
and it it's interesting
this is kind of stretching toward the tool thing
you know our
our words are tools
of a sort
you know our
our language
and our our concrete specific thoughts
you know our cognitive
representations are
a tool of sorts to help us
you know
allegedly
to help us
navigate our affordances
but that's alleged
because there's some strange loop there
there's some
you know not us
motivating the action
right
like there's a
underneath our sense of agency
is this loop
the circuit of
experience
somehow manufacturing the world we inhabit
and i i think it goes still deeper you know
but i guess i'll just pause there i
i don't know if that stirs up anything but that's
a line that i'm really curious about
yeah
um
you know
so i always say that
uh
you know language
is the gradual eclipse
of the symbolic source
of the embodiment
of a technical object
so language
externalizes
temporal selection
which enables
which enables
humans to structure time consciously
in a very primitive way
um
so technology begins as a symbolic
extension of this process
and when i talk about symbols i mean something like
a more originary
kind of thinking
which is mostly absent
from modern life
so tools first appeared
i think as living
metaphors or bridges like
organisms that bound
the human body to the cosmos
and that made certain
forms of action possible
which were tied to
cosmogonic myths
so
the idea of regenerating the cosmos
periodically
is an ancient traditional point of view
among humans everywhere
so tools seem to have been originally wedded to this process of cosmic renewal or retrieval
or resurrection
which takes certain forms
which takes certain forms later in history
of course we know
but over time this symbolic origin fades
and this original kind of thinking
disappears
but it leaves behind
these husks
these objects
that serve functional roles
rather than cosmological roles
and so you can find evidence
for this everywhere
any tool today
if you sort of trace its history back
you'll discover that it originated in this symbolic
kind of nexus
that was cosmological in nature
so
you know
you usually you know we associate that with shamanism
but that's kind of a loaded term
but writing systems also
have a similar point of origin
because writing systems
were originally used
originally used for divine inscriptions
and for cosmic correspondence
so it reflected this deeper kind of cosmic
understanding of the human body
and its role in nature
its role in the cosmos
what it actually does
but over time writing systems
also you know like tools
evolved into these neutral means
of recording transactions
and laws and you know
stuff like that
and we see that today
in like computer systems
and in you know
governments
but yeah both technology and language
I think exhibit the same kind of trajectory
they inform each other
they have this autonomous quality
so they have this kind of independent spirit
which
now subordinates
us sort of controls us
in this feedback loop
in a certain respect
so
yeah that's
that's sort of my perspective on that
that's brilliant
i have a few comments
so i'm going to say back
what i took from some of what you said
originally
the symbolic
intelligence of humans
was profoundly related
to what i call uplink
or to the reception
an incarnation
of divine intelligence
or you know the supernatural
whatever you want to call it
but over time
what happened was
that representation and symbols
became
the fossilized
antithetical remnant
left over from the evacuation
of that
from our common experience
much like our smartphones
are
today
essentially a representation of uplink
um
that is dead inside
and filled with a bunch of dead
recordings
um
novelty replaces
uh
like visual novelty
replaces
the
theurgy
um
sarah talks at length
sarah janes
about her experience
of learning
to read hieroglyphs
and how
that
mode
of symbolic
uh
engraving
is radically different
from ours
because
it includes
it includes features of nature
such that
one who reads hieroglyphs
will see hieroglyphs
in natural phenomena
all day long
right
constant
with our experience of nature
and being alive
the symbols are actual things in our experience
in our experience
that can
um
come together
so she noticed
after a time
that she would
encounter
exam
examples
not just of hieroglyphs
but of statements
in hieroglyphic language
in nature
imagine the difference between a system like that and ours
yeah
yeah
where that never happens
that is impossible
in english
or rather we
have subdued the natural world and created a world of square corners and signposts everywhere
where it's
no no there's something yes that's true there's something far weirder going on though that which is which is instead of seeing
the symbol
all like
in
the natural
we
place
that experience
with signs
exactly
the words
yeah
the word of showers
and
right
so what happens is the eviction of the originary
into
dead
forms
that euthanize us
they euthanize our consciousness and our participatory relationship with
emergence and existence
they literally put it to death
it's the it's a kind of strange opposite of anesthesia
yeah
but when you learn to see the horse or the raccoon or the human being in the right way
you can return to or resurrect that form of cognition because in that form of cognition there's no distinction between perception and knowledge and that's very much like what you're describing when you see symbols in your environment you start perceiving symbols themselves so there's no distinction between the appearance of the symbol and the act of knowing that's what i'm always harping on about
me too
in my own way
we're we're we have unique complementary
we're we're we have unique complementary
uh
figurations of this so
if one sees
a wolf
a wolf
as the word
as the word
of the sky
the living speech
of that which is to form
as the sun is to light
the speaker of forms
of forms
the speaker of forms makes the chrysanthemum
the jellyfish
the octopus
the whale
the raccoon
the horse
the wolf
the aphid
the ant
the speaker of forms
this must have been obvious to the ancients
so obvious that
it forged their awareness
it was not an effect
in their awareness
their awareness was comprised of this
first we make our tools and then our tools make us
i mean
it's but the us that is resulting is dead inside go ahead
yeah
exactly
and well
you know
i
i
i think everything you said is beautiful
and i agree very much
but there's something interesting here
you know
um
i just
i want to shy away from using the ultimate
for a moment
for a moment
it's
it's
it's interesting
you know
so in this idea
of the
the behavioral loop
the the relationship that erupts
you know
between
um
the cave painter and his game
and his game
the the story of the universe the understanding the
you know understanding the just the whole experience that erupts from that relationship
is a relationship of desire you know a desire loop that draws the hunter into intimacy with the game right and from that you know if that was a
you know a desire loop that draws the hunter into intimacy with the game right and from that you know if that were not the case well you know in a normal way at least the hunter would probably just starve to death and everyone would be cool with that and that'd be the end of it right
but it's interesting the way that manufactures that relationship resonates and creates a world all around it you know just like the dentist and my tooth
i have some dental pain so i go to the dentist you know and they they give me a partial cure
and i come back again
from this relationship i get a partial cure from
the relationship they get money and from that erupts this reality
this reality of understanding and dentistry
from this desire loop
you know
a technology erupts
and what is that technology
it is the manifest world
it is somehow reality
now if that's preferential
if that's the reality we'd preference over another reality we'd preference is interesting
you know
but deep down
i don't i don't remember where i saw this but this loop of desire
and how it manifests you know
quote unquote reality
reality
what whatever we'd call that
our experience
our
you know
whatever it is
it's not something that can be vanquished
you know
it's not something to be
uh
like it's interesting the way that our tools themselves are
are
they're not wholly bad
or wholly good
but somehow they're a means by which
the affordances we understand
are manifest to us
and that's
and that's
complicated and interesting to me
yeah yeah yeah yeah well see that establishes the link between ancient religion and coca-cola
because coca-cola is a religion
it's i mean so you have to see the connection every product is a religion nike is a religion
sorry what's that all those things are every product is a religion nike is a religion
yeah so seeing that connection is important
also you know it strikes me in listening to corn fed just now something that i've been aware of sort of subconsciously
which is that
a trip to the doctor or the dentist
is literally
a representation of the transmigration of souls
it is
it is the replacement for what the greeks were doing but it is the same kind of thing
we leave the universe of common experience
a god literally a god arises
in the form of the dentist angels are his assistants
the god i love this
right the god causes effective changes
but there's a whole not merely hypnotic and not merely religious there is a transcendental transaction occurring in representation
but it's not merely representation
the trip to the dentist is the same kind of fossilized remains
that is more functional perhaps
uh of what the uh ellipson ellipsis
um
death and resurrection
you literally get a nest okay look yeah you literally get anesthetized all right
so is that not the uh little appearance of the representation of dying and being reborn
all of these things are ritually
um transcendental to our common experience
we leave the regular world of self and other and known things
we go into a highly specialized environment in which we are anesthetized
and we emerge somehow transformed
it's very important to be aware of this i've never been so consciously aware of it before though i was you know i was modestly aware but now in my mind i see
i see um in part in response to how corn fed
structured my concerns
with his sharing right
this becomes blatantly obvious
and the drinking of a coca-cola is very similar
as is the putting on of a nike shoe
these are rituals
fundamentally transcendental
right
right
they transform our identity
and our experience of identity and they associate our identity with gods
yes
and so the modern um
the modern aspect of to be of becoming associated with a god
is the preference for a product
in my own life
um
the apple computer is a god that i have long served
and i'm deeply intimate with
it's crazy magical
the guitars
and the synthesizers are gods
and there are very specific gods that i select
select
to
effloresce
daringness
inwardly and extrinsically
these products are the replacements of gods
they are
they are hypostatic they are represent okay
they are representational hypostasis
they are representational hypostasis
of the lost relationship with the divine
and once you evacuate that
or
once you begin the process of that evacuation
this engenders the process of the death of participation
into right into the relationship with product
yeah the mechanical clock is a carnal
embodiment of the cycles in organisms
so
as opposed to thinking that clocks
measure time
really clocks are the death of a certain kind of time
that's what that's what it right
is
yes exactly
yeah it's this kind of mechanical cycle
that
yeah reflects a deeper understanding of
uh cycles in the cosmos
so it's really a death
it's
yeah it's necessary result
is
an alexandrian library of forms of slavery
yeah so
yeah it sets up this clock of desire that corn feds talking about
like this kind of cycle of addiction
like coca-cola
or the dentist
that desire away from
the cycle of life in your body
and the cycle of life in the external world as well
the whole idea of an intoxicant
is
you know
wildly unnecessary unless
uplink is lost
and
we can see for example in the introduction of
extremely
um
toxic forms of whiskey and so forth to the indigenous people
how that replaced ecstasy participation
role
uh
i don't want to call what they were doing ritual because i think it's pre ritualistic actually
um
um
but yeah this the intoxicant just replaces and kills that stuff
i'm not sure this was always the way but it's it's certainly part of the way in modernity coca-cola was an intoxicant originally
i've got some pages here that uh
i'd like to read if the group is amenable
that are related to the topics at hand
um
um
yeah let's go for it
i'd love to hear it
okay this is some really good stuff
db i don't know if you're trying to speak but we're getting um background too
oh sorry uh i'll mute um yeah go ahead
okay i'm trying to find what i have
let's see
ah here we go
so this is from um language and myth by ernst cassarae
it's a very small book that is one of the most amazing books i've ever come across
um
but mythic ideation primitive verbal conception recognize no such content of experience
their function as we have seen is rather a process of almost violent separation individual individuation
only when this intense individuation has been consummated
when the immediate intuition has been focused and one might say reduced to a single point
does the mythic or linguistic form emerge and the word or the momentary god is created
and this particular genesis determines the type of intellectual content that is common in language and myth
for where the process of apprehension aims not at an expansion extension universalizing of the content
but rather at its highest intensification this fact cannot fail to influence human consciousness
this is when this is where things get interesting
all other things are lost to a mind thus enthralled
all bridges between concrete datum and the systematized totality of experience are broken
only the present reality as mythic or linguistic conception stresses and shapes it fills the entire subjective realm
so this one content of experience must reign over practically the whole experiential world
there is nothing beside it or beyond it whereby it could be measured or to which it could be compared
the word its mere presence is the sum of all being
at this point the word which denotes that thought content is not a mere conventional symbol
but is merged with its object in an indissoluble unity
the conscious experience is not merely wedded to the word but is consumed by it
whatever has been fixed by a name henceforth is not only real it is reality
the potential between symbol and meaning is resolved in a place of more or less adequate expansion
we find a relation of identity of complete congruence between image and object between the name and the thing
um it goes on to say
uh this is a quote from seven against thebes by aeschylus
life and victory depend upon direction and power
as also on the goodwill of the weapon this feeling wells up irresistibly in the crucial moment of the battle
and prayer does not invoke a god from afar to guide the weapon the weapon itself is god the helper and deliverer
an implement then is never regarded as something simply manufactured something thought of and produced
but as a gift from above its origin does not go back to man himself but to some culture hero either a god or an animal
this attribution of all cultural values to a savior is so universal that attempts have been made to find the essence and origin of the god concept in this notion
again we are faced with a characteristic of mythic thinking which divides it sharply from the way of discursive or theoretical reflection
the latter is characterized by the fact that even in apparently immediately given data it recognizes an element of mental creation
and stresses this active ingredient
goes on and on and on forever this book is fucking insane it's a you can get it for like five dollars I strongly recommend it language and myth by Ernst Casaray
yeah I have the book actually yeah can you give me the page number
yeah I read that book maybe I just I just read it over and over and over I just keep reading it
yes I think you had actually his philosophy of symbolic forms I do yeah yeah I want to read
yeah that guy was lucky enough to get a three volume copy of that page 60 and page 57 I think
yeah I'll check it out
but yeah we're really on to something here this
the trip to the dentist's office but similarly the trip to the grocery store
right that is a relationship with the god of that makes that brings the things to us Amazon is a god
right the internet is a representation of a kind of an anti heaven or it's a representation of what people I think they're very confused when they do this generally refer to as the Akashic records
right which is sort of the memory of all things above time in the universal cognitium
each of these technologies represent what they destroy and they don't have to do that that's not the only option for technology
it's the result I think primarily of humans being captured on a specific branch of the possibility space of representational cognition one that is only becomes accessible if uplink is broken
if uplink is unbroken then there are guiding intelligences that very firmly and they don't compel you
they inform you in such a way that sin becomes either wildly unlikely or impossible sin not being the doing of a thing for which you will be damned sin being
the layered result the result of layered losses of awareness and ignorance and confusion that arise on a world of bees where there are no longer flowers
right on a world of bees where the water is gone where the purpose the purpose of nature of their origin and form is lost in their awareness
this loss produces a cascade of forgettings and those forgettings lead to the inaction of things that no one would ever enact
in a situation even where the communal uh local intelligence was still accessible right even if there were no gods
and there was no thing above the humans which I wildly doubt right even in a relatively coherent tribe of persons
the collective takes on the function of uplink even if there's nothing to link to which again I catastrophically doubt but I'm willing to entertain
you know I mean it's my impression McGilchrist goes on and on about this in a way I think that's parallel to what we're describing
yeah absolute genius yeah they're I profoundly trust in and inspired by him yeah he seems um earnest for sure
he's doing the thing he's talking about this is really important so what he's doing is he's placing his left hemisphere
at the disposal so to speak at the disposal of the purpose of orientations of the silent hemisphere
with his academic approach with his academic approach in particular yeah well it's really he's doing what he's saying
this is super important it's very rare to encounter this I think go ahead I didn't mean to interrupt you
oh no that's great and the uh you know the thing that
kind of you know resonates with regard to our conversation is the totalitarian nature
of the particular rising left hemisphere you know at a point the scales tip you know just as you described
in your reading right there's a point at which overly empowered if our if our minds are formatted by this
particular rising dissecting notion it you know especially as a culture right we can create an entire ontology
based on particular rising on categorizing and it vanquishes that you know more complete knowing
and it actively destroys it and then you you have things like wild wildlife biologists going around
shooting the wolves to like repair the elk you know it doesn't that absolute particularization you know
you know the scale has broken and become unbalanced in this way at least that's what i was reminded of
yeah
so how can korshipski help us here darren
my god so there's there's probably 15 tools
um
and i don't want to become didactic right now because we're having such a beautiful sort of orchestral play together
but the most fundamental of them is the realization that underlies non-aristotelian logic which obliterates
the law of the excluded middle and replaces it with the law of excluded identity
so what that looks like is whatever we say a thing is that is what it is not the thing that we use to point with
is merely a pointer and what it points to is always an irrevocably infinite and incomplete
so recognizing that we are freed from the trap of what he calls identification
um there's a story where there's a bunch of stories of course korshipski's life
there's a book about him that's quite fascinating which a friend of mine gifted me
it's a huge tone it's sort of his biography it's great
but there's a story he was a spy in world war one i think for the poles he was polish
and there's a bunch of stories about him that are fascinating he was tasked with low with using the evidence
i think the russians had this particular weapon might not have been the russians i don't know who it was
um could have been germans they had this weapon that was absolutely devastating it was an artillery gun
and they tasked him with going to the sites where uh this weapon the the shell had landed
and forensically examining that site to determine the location of the weapon so that it could then be hunted down and destroyed
and he was quite successful at this to such a degree this is hilarious and brilliant that the army using the weapon began to use it to hunt him
right because he was destroying that weapon so effectively by his forensic examination of its uh landing zones right
but they started to just use it to hunt him i mean i don't know just they were probably using it for other things as well um
and anyway there's there's a story where he's in a train car and he's talking to someone separate story
and um he sits down on a chair and in the in the you know in the little cubby hole in the train he's talking to the person
and the chair collapses but it but he doesn't fall down he just stands up from the chair as it collapses
and the shocked interlocutor says how did you not fall down and korzybski said i never believed that was a chair
so non-identification non-allness we should notice that when we use tokens we should resist the urge to understand
that they are complete right that they are sufficient and complete that is a tree is an untrue statement
um so he transforms the trap from concreteness perhaps he recognizes a useful facility in these games of language and identity
uh then he also um introduces a couple of other things that i can briefly state
state the first is to use a temporal um subscript when we are describing a person or phenomenon
and also possibly a locational subscript he does this in he gives examples of this in science insanity
but i can tell you i can show you exactly what it means so if i said john went to the store
uh what would happen in thought is the version of john circa august 7th 1925 457 pm um beginning at the corner of
you know maine and second street went to the store that subscript alerts us to the fact that john is not a continuous
known phenomenon these kinds of habits uh which appear uh overwrought at first glance right
um there's a page in science insanity which is probably not too difficult to locate
in which like the 15 tools that he employs as abbreviations are explained
yeah temporal and locational subscripts alert us to the fact that john is an unknown phenomenon and that
john has only only at certain times and in certain situations does john have qualities that we would
recognize as john like in other times and situations those qualities change right they are not reliable they
are not continuous and this transforms how we process identity once we take these toys online we don't have
to become tyrannical with them um for them to have a profound effect on cognition which he suggests literally
structures the nervous system right okay yeah so that that brings us back to hypnosis
so let's let's talk about a couple of other things that korzybski discovered so um he was treating he
would treat people he was a he was a therapist right and he would treat them for illnesses and psycho
psychopathologies using uh non-aristotelian methods so he met this woman and she was catastrophically allergic to
roses um and they had many sessions together and then one day he showed up at her house uh with a bouquet
of roses and she got very angry with him began sneezing uncontrollably and getting hives on her skin
and freaking out how could you possibly do this you know how and he said ma'am these are not roses
these are artificial flowers and she was cured so what he noticed was that the humans are responding to
what they think things are in such a fundamental way that they develop illnesses and injuries around them
and rather than treating those allopathically he was treating them cognitively by changing what they
think reality is right well this is a very different instance of a similar phenomenon of going to the
dentist except in this case korzybski is like you have cavities in your cognition and they're
fucking love right let's replace those with something else right yeah now i can see a lot of connections
to what i already tend to say here so can you tell me more about time binding yeah so time binding can
have different meanings um and i'm i'm not an expert on dissertations about korzybski i'm more someone who has
internalized some of his methods sure but time binding is the problem that you have of inheriting the
pathological evaluations of previous humans
when you learn language you are receiving the result of time binding humans he says are time binders and
what that means is we produce collect and enact a library of concept concepts and identities which would
never ordinarily arise in our awareness or cognition unless we inherited them
so time binding is the reception of the historical lexicons conceptual and linguistic
models methods of evaluation primarily he's concerned with evaluation right because that's
really what everything is in consciousness from one perspective it's comparison it's evaluation it's
measuring it's identification right and so what he's saying is you know along with useful features
like he certainly wouldn't um i think having been a mathematician himself i doubt he would say
mathematics is a deleterious form of time binding i think he would agree that it's a
a useful and profound aspect of time mining so there must be things that aren't nearly pathological
but the vast majority of the catalogs that we inherit um is pathological
and is essentially a vast collection of compelling fictions
so the therapeutic move move is to disabuse ourselves of those to understand the structural
nature of their wrongness which you know has nothing to do with what george does obviously
well does he does he see the mind and the body as the same phenomenon
it's very complicated um he's a madman and he's functioning like you know alfred korzybski
subscript 1927 to 1940 whatever right like he's also in time and he's in a context and he studied
some neurology but misunderstands portions of it rather dramatically compared to modern understandings
um and it's also insane uh so like one of the things you know one of the things he says is um
criminals have given up their right to participate in society by by engaging in criminal acts so they
should just become guinea pigs for science you can do whatever you want with those
um which is of course i think well i mean this sounds like a tool for going insane which is
yeah he would argue at one level not in its totality but you know to be used that way like
anything he would argue i mean literally i i discovered him because of the writings of a science
fiction author called ae van voe who wrote in a couple of books including the players of null a um about a
a null a detective named gilbert gosane g-o-y g-o-s let's see g-o-y-s-a-n-e i think
um and gilbert's job was to solve crimes that were committed with time machines
right right in um in these books which are brilliant and fascinating uh this is how i
discovered korzybski when i was 17 and got my first copy of science insanity from the library
and tried to understand it and failed miserably because i took one of its precepts literally which
was there's no way to learn this unless you're trained by someone who's accomplished in it you
can't just learn this by reading the book so i just believed that which isn't really entirely true
um in any case in the books uh it it supposes a future where humanity is branched and there's a
branch that took up null a and became superhuman and they live on venus which they've terraformed
and the terrestrial humans contract out to them to solve various kinds of problems
there are problems you cannot solve without null a tools it might be that most problems cannot be solved
without them right because if you're look if you start out with a collection of
of presumptions that are lethal to understanding or insight what's your next move
well the way that he described modern ontology
yes i'm sorry what's that
oh i just think that underpins the modern ontology as we've discussed
but sorry go ahead oh yeah it does well the way that he describes the distinction between plants
animals and humans actually reflects my own which i find really interesting
because i haven't you know delved into his books at all um
yeah i'm not i'm not actually sure about how he describes that but what he does describe
well i can see here that he he called plants energy binding and animals space binding which basically
reflects what i already think yeah yeah yeah i find that really interesting yeah yeah his toy the
structural differential is very profound i'd like to manufacture them i've long had that um
um that goal it shouldn't be very difficult to do i need to find a handyman who can craft them
because there's nowhere to get one all you can get is a representation of them and he
he basically said that you must practice you have to physicalize the understanding by practicing with
the structural differential have you described before would you like to describe the toy the uh
the structural differential sure i'll give a very simple description of it that's incomplete
of course all descriptions are incomplete but so you have like a broken parabola at the top with a bunch
of holes in it and the reason that it's broken it's broken at the top is that it goes on forever so
those holes are derivable qualities of an event situation or object or being right and there are
an infinite number of those holes which is why it's jagged at the top of the parabola that's at the top of
this toy and it's basically like the there are these little circles and tags on a stick that stands up
the parabola is at the top this is easy to find online so what you have are underneath that you have
like a circle with some peg holes in it and to the left of that on an arm you have another circle with
some peg holes in it and then underneath those circles you have these tags that hang down they're
rectangular and they have a few holes in them and so what humans do is the thing that julian james called
excerption and this toy illustrates that very directly and it's something that humans are generally
unconscious of doing and so what you do is you take a peg with a string on it from the parabola down
into the first circle which could be understood as what an animal might derive from experience
and then you take a couple of other pegs and strings with pegs on the ends and you connect them
from the parabola to the first circle so you get maybe three or five derived properties of an experience
then you take a few of those and you connect those over to the human what a human will make
of course the human what they will make is often conceptual which the animal is probably not doing
and or linguistic and or symbolic and then you just hang some tags off that thing and connect a few
things down to those things and those are what you would think of as function or value or identity
so you always you learn that the phenomena is infinite and that an animal you are an animal right so you
make some of the animalian derivations over the continuum of the phenomena
and then from there you make a few
you conserve or derive a few other qualities or properties or values this is what evaluation
is and what you notice in continually doing this with any given phenomena arose a trip to the grocery
store the cut on my finger is that you're not doing you're doing something that has very little to do
with the phenomena it has to do with a bunch of habits and those habits are deleteriously compelling
in that they limit the scope of the phenomena's availability to your participation and awareness
very dramatically with each step so you're effectively evicting understanding and awareness
and then thinking that the resulting derivations are good true believable valid and so forth this is a very crude
description and probably slightly inaccurate in some features
yeah it makes sense thank you the um the habit of this particularization
explanation yeah
excerption false evaluation false conclusion leads to false behavior
is the simple problem
you'd be better off with non-evaluation in many cases
sounds awfully buddhist i don't know
yeah who would have guessed right
my friends i must depart for now
so grateful as always for this time with you and
our explorations and enthusiasm and passion and curiosity
medicinal insight
yeah likewise
all blessings
yeah all blessings to you hope to see you all again soon
peace for now thank you for all you bring and all you intend cheers
sorry i've been quiet i've been sorting meat this whole time
i'm still doing that awesome awesome awesome
yeah so that was pretty cool um
what he said before you left um
when i sit down to write or draw i literally have to take like five minutes to decompress
so you know wind everything down so that way i'm not thinking about anything
and then i can start because if my mind is doing anything like that i can't focus
so um so yeah it has to be completely still and then
uh what i call my friends of eternity what i call my friends in eternity start to awaken and help me out
do you have a process that you prefer to clear your mind in that way
this is something that um i mean i i have a few you know like meditation and stuff but um
you know it's been um more of a struggle than i would like just lately
and so i'm kind of curious to hear if you you have a interesting process
um i mostly do that uh exercise hugh gave us um uh at the end of the extinction audio meetings
like he introduced that um sometime in like meeting 70s in the 70s or 60s of the meetings
i can't remember which one particular he introduced the exercise where you basically do like a full
inventory of your body you kind of get grounded in your senses uh you sit nephronic probes in a
chair which is perfect because that's how i naturally sit anyway with my back perfectly straight
so like make a right angle and then you uh close your eyes and you uh focus on the back of your eyelids
and you don't try to control your breathing or anything and uh if you um if your focus starts
to drift then you just bring it back go through your senses again like listen you know uh feel your
skin feel the chair um you know become aware of the taste in your mouth um and then the smells and then
focus behind your eyelids again but for me it usually tastes like two or three times and then i'm good to go
that's great thank you
well um you know i i don't know uh i don't have a ton of time i think but um i have a uh a loose ticket
you know um i don't know if you're still interested in uh talking about greenland
or if there's some other subject that might be interesting either db or george
i don't know i was looking forward to that too so
sorry what was that corn fed i turned on the faucet and then you spoke and i couldn't hear you
sorry um a while back uh george had kind of uh registered a curiosity you know to get perspectives
i think on trump and greenland and um you know i don't know there's probably seven or eight different
things that kind of come to my mind with regard to that but do you want to characterize that more
george or you know direct the the interest or what you wanted to say or anything well i i really wonder
what lord he would have made of it so i was just curious to get your perspective because i figured
that you might know something about it or you know you um you might be following it i haven't been
following it as closely as i probably should so um any any updates would be good like just what you think
the motivation is or any sort of you know forecasts or what you think is likely is it is it a big gimmick
is it just yeah it's uh it's it's fascinating you know and um i think in so many ways and i think i'm lucky
you know in the sense i've been uh you know i just kind of was close to politics and so you kind of
you know it's oh it's so ugly to see how the sausage is made but once you kind of understand you can see
the track it's on um but i don't know there there's some interesting and intriguing bits here still um
let me just rattle off a couple of quick takes in different aspects about the situation right um
um you know i i think that there's you know politically there's just the really common sense that
you know trump's crazy and like this is just uh weird or it's a smoke screen or it's a manifestation
of a syphilis riddled brain you know um and you know in response to those things i might kind of
elevate this like you know the kind of holographic prints or the uh the interference pattern you know
um even just kind of appearing crazy it allows trump's followers to derive whatever meaning they
prefer from the like mix of tea leaves going different directions in chaotic ways um you know
it's something for people to talk about like he of course wants to dominate the media and this is
inflammatory you know it's a thing that gets people talking he controls the mic you know there's a bunch
of particulars here that are just useful for his domestic political positioning you know the other thing
is of course related to that it confounds the opposition to him right but um okay well that's
just a very simple read you know i think um i'm sorry did you want to say db oh yeah so i thought
about i mean i haven't i've been staying away from the news george knows why you know it's just um
it's like an interference like the news for me right now it's interference so i'm focusing on
on stuff like my i guess i can call it my my alchemy project um uh but uh if i were to uh try to imagine
what hugh would say about it while he said that the uh uh greenland ice sheet enough of that melts and
the earth will flip so yeah um so the the deep state so to speak trump's and trump's puppet masters
like to me he's just a vacuous husk of a human with no interiority whatsoever and he's just being
puppeteered by people much more clever than he is um if hugh is right and the uh the united states
government knows about the flippening uh then they probably see strategic advantage and controlling
it maybe they think they can uh where you call it um slow them out or speed it up depending on how it uh
uh benefits state power i'm not too sure because trying to get in those people's heads is hard for me
because i from my perspective they're completely insane but um uh yeah so i'm pretty sure hugh would
go on some kind of tangent like that if i'm correct if not then um yeah i mean what do you think george
yeah that's what that's what i think and i wonder how he would frame it i think he would
he would go down that path um so i think you're right yeah he knows a lot more about that sort of
stuff than i do i just sort of have a cursory glance at history but
i don't know it's really weird how how my navigate daily is more based on um
uh i want to say intuition is probably a word for like emotion so i'm not very um
what do you call it i guess super intellectual about things but i've had this kind of so hugh and gary
talked about this they talked about the paraclete and how it like burns you know uh when when something
is wrong and you should avoid a situation so i've had that with me all my life that's probably why
the reason why i'm here right now how i was able to see through all the lies of the culture
uh was immediately kind of allergic to christianity
as my family tried to inculcate me with that and i was resistant to it because you know the idea of
humans reigning supreme over everything and treating other forms of life as frivolous things to just
do with what what they want you know uh that that always struck a wrong you know just a
uh a really dour chord with me and so um yeah so looking at history like even as they try to uh
uh in schools for instance when they teach about american expansion i was like already on the side
of the you know american indians i'm like you know are we the baddies moment yeah already when i was like
11. so um yeah i kind of just decided to call that intuitive side of myself antimony you know the
antimony from alchemy because it dissolves um it dissolves all other metals but the gold
so um yeah hugh talked about that i'm like yeah that really resonates me that with me that's
probably what's going on and what's guided me all this time well antimony was also known as the wolf
of the metals exactly exactly yes yes um yeah um yeah i've seen her in dreams i was calling
her the multi-form beast before when i was like a teenager and um and then i painted her as a wolf
in high school like i said before like um when i was looking in the mirror and i painted her as a
black wolf with fiery and amber eyes between you know two trees in a really dark forest
i wish i have that painting still i lost it when i was homeless um uh yeah so it's it's really
interesting i'm like always hesitant to talk about these things because it feels like blasphemy in a
way yeah you know a few things um you know regarding the flippening you know um i think just beyond the
ice sheet um i have an impression from um a gravity map that i saw of the planet at one point
that you know maybe beyond just the weight of the ice that greenland may be uh uh kind of an anomalous
area for its gravity the density there and this makes me wonder if you know as the pole is kind of
moving in that direction right now if that means that greenland will end up somewhere near the equator
in the flippening or come back to the pole you know in the flippening i i don't really know the
dynamics of that but i think that's really interesting from the flippening perspective
but then there's all these geopolitical situations kind of relevant to to this too you know uh not just
internal domestic politics right but like okay i think we've probably all heard of the manchurian
candidate hypothesis right there's movies about it or whatever you know so one of the and i'm not
saying anything i'm not saying it is or is not any way but one thing that's really interesting about the
manchurian candidate you know kind of hypothesis is then okay well if the manchurian candidate was elected
then how would they behave particularly they would indicate you know anything that we might derive from
and one of the really interesting and i forget wearing where i encountered this one of the really
interesting you know uh tactics that russia would use to disrupt the west and in this kind of you know
foot race for you know what they do for race for resources is to have the united states pick on
greenland and greenland and the reason for this is that greenland is nato defended but it's a weak
point greenland isn't its own nation it's a protectorate of denmark so it's it's under the
protection of nato but not directly as a member you know and so you know if the manchurian candidate
thing were true and you know in the white house is somebody working to disrupt all of europe and nato
then one of the first things they would do you know beyond you know defunding nato and picking on all
the allies one of the first things they would do is start to make grabs at the weak points like greenland
and you know there's things about like ducks and how they sound and if it quacks like a duck and
whatever you know i don't know but then the other thing is that you know it's been my belief uh just
generally that the strategy leading up to the ukraine the geopolitical strategy is of course we're going
to go ahead and allow you know global warming and whatever else just to go ahead and occur and um
what is at stake is a massive race for the energy resources right and there's some modest energy
resources in greenland but under the arctic ice is you know substantial energy resources and there's
already for a couple decades been this jockeying fight um for who can establish control over arctic
energy and greenland is just a massively important location for bases for local control of arctic energy
resources either for russia or for the west depending on who will end up controlling it
so beyond the manchurian candidate situation there's also this situation and i think that was
partially kind of induced by the idea that it's my sense that the western military establishment
was trying to kind of keep russia as a pinata for them like as global warming kind of continue to
attack we could beat up russia and keep them small and keep them out of energy resources and maybe even
raid their energy resources by market action or military action and the war in ukraine is a reaction
to that strategy you know i think putin knows he was being put in a box and went to hybrid warfare
taking to our social media to counteract it you know the only domain where the asymmetrical warfare
could you know maybe help them out of the box you know um yeah you know there's a actually you know
all that could be simultaneously true like because uh he always talked about how the the cults you
know in the system nest into each other so there's probably different layers of motivation but they're
all kind of aligned so like did you the geostrategic guys are pursuing the resources but maybe the guys
in the deepest recesses of the state that know like the flippening and all this stuff is just
you know uh riding the tides waiting for their moment to jump ship as all this is going on they're
just kind of staring it lightly because uh you know maybe another aspect to this too is maybe like the
governments like um what is it united states government and russia maybe ran the simulations like
hugh talked about the supercomputer and maybe identified greenland is one of the um what do you
call it the uh it's one of those three axes points that you can sit on during the flippening to survive
it and since these psychopaths are all about survival they they literally think that the point of living
organisms is to survive which makes no sense because we all individually die
like that that world in there making sense to me but um yeah the alien cortex you know seeks its
immortality through the propagation of this pattern right so yeah yeah exactly um uh yeah so it's always
about finding a stone and carving their name into it but it's like stone's a road you can't be immortal
yeah no you have a great point none of these explanations are exclusive they all synergize
they can yeah they can synergize um so it's possible that they're all true at the same time
and actually often that is the case for a lot of complex things is that's how reality manifests
yeah yeah multiple things are true at once um yeah so it's uh it's crazy and and as we can see
the world is going even crazier like um the ufo cult is emerging the um the left wing right wing
cult is emerging and and it's it looks like it literally looks like the apocalypse so it's all these
cults and it's like you know he talked to he talked about how to survive this is like you gotta avoid
being trampled being trampled by these things like don't go on the alien ship um don't be rigid in an
ideology because uh you know he said the alien cortex doesn't survive this uh because it's quantity
it's a quantity surveyor that's all it does and uh maybe the act of that quantity surveying is what
got humans kicked out of eden to begin with
yeah yeah it sounds like you for sure and i agree you know i don't like me personally i don't think
like that at all i don't quantity survey at all i don't just i don't maybe i did in like my teenage
years to an extent but i i kicked the habit in my my early 20s in my early 20s when i kind of had a
mental breakdown but um yeah i just don't think that way it's like i remember doing it it just made the
world miserable like um it made me think of all the um you know those sages talking about the
suffering of the world and a and a lot of them like a lot of these online guys like uh martin butler
and stuff tend to pin the idea of the suffering of the world on the animal nature but it's like
i don't see that i don't i look out and i don't see the animal suffering i see ravens every day and
they seem to be having fun playing with the wolves so i just don't i just don't get it it doesn't seem to
to me that this um this horrible red and tooth and claw suffering is the whole story i think that
is created by the mind actually yeah i totally agree i mean it doesn't seem to acknowledge the
dissonance that at least to me seems to be behind the suffering you know it doesn't seem to acknowledge
how being in accord with your instincts and environment creates joy which is also my experience
so yeah i agreed cornfed do you personally think that geothermal energy in greenland could be a
long-term game plan or do you think it's a fool's errand you know um i don't have a lot of hope for
okay so you know what would be the system that would develop thermal energy geothermal energy from
greenland now um geothermal energy is really interesting i think deep earth geothermal is really
the most promising potential but that's a different subject than what you asked of course so let me
we talk about greenland geothermal right so you need transmission somehow probably what they would
do is just overproduce geothermal in greenland to an absurd degree right turn it into hydrogen and ship
hydrogen everywhere that's probably the most likely scenario you know and to me powering the world on
hydrogen from greenland i mean this is actually novel i haven't encountered this before so thanks for
bringing it up um yeah that's feasible you know but the supply lines you know uh it's complicated you
know so there's a there's a a dirty reality to the energy system of course which maybe you're already
aware of hence your question but it's more about control and centralization like the the reaction to
clean energy is it's decentralized liberal enabling of reality right so the the system wants energy
generated in a single place that it can build a fortress around and then wants people to be
dependent on shipments from that place and there you see our entire energy model today right now geothermal
out of greenland yeah if it's that model you'd have to overproduce by about three or four times
to serve the rest of the world with enough hydrogen to then power their economy or you know however else
you might convert that you know like yeah i guess you could ship around like iron rust batteries or
something you know um that's pretty heavy that's for sure now i'd really you know if this is going to
convert into some kind of sustainable thing um the best bet i would have is on deep earth geothermal
but the problem for the system with deep earth geothermal is if you can get the deep earth borehole
you can produce geothermal superheated you know supercritical water coming out of anywhere on the planet
and so then you don't need you there's no reason that people that you can force them on to con
you know uh being dependent upon you so yeah i mean the game plan could be tons of geothermal from
greenland and then a police state for the rest of the world that's certainly feasible right okay
yeah thank you very much for for delving into that it's worth knowing about yeah that's an interesting
possibility if they're trying to dominate greenland and then you know i'm still kind of curious about
how they would consider the shipping routes and all that but if you could imagine that would probably
pretty capably serve europe and canada and north america generally uh yeah we'd have you know it's
going to take 50 years to develop though um also interesting there's a bunch of wrinkles there
what do you mean exactly well okay so there that would be if the world slides towards
you know continues this control oriented approach right so inherent in that is the military force
to subjugate the rest of the planet so they can't develop their own energy sources right um against
the backdrop of a collapsing oil system while still maintaining the shipping that could deliver that energy
but the fact is this is technologically feasible right now so that's a major advantage for it you know
the amount of time it would take to scale it up and the instability and military dominion needed to
create during that time frame i mean that's that's really rolling the dice but what isn't you know because
on the other hand deep earth geothermal is still also rolling the dice on whether or not we can
consistently make these boreholes deep enough you know so yeah it's it's certainly feasible
it's a pretty dark picture of course you know a pretty dark future like like most were weighing so
uh do you think that um global warming is a is a broader framework for understanding the cold war
do you have any thoughts on that like is there a secret dimension to it well you know i see all this
is kind of at the the tail of the dog of oil energy and so okay i would couch you know the world wars and
geopolitics rooted in this energy story you know the the japanese bombed pearl harbor after we cut off
their oil supply from the philippines and they had no other major oil source right like you know this
energy supply underpins all geopolitics all all modern history and uh you know that that i think is the um
you know it's the kind of unifying secret right so then of course like global warming is
you know it's kind of in the picture but it's also kind of negligible because the world is ruled by
energy you know that's the that's the dictator from which everything else is governed right in in this
kind of geopolitical uh economic sense right
so i don't know if that really disagrees with what you're saying you know but um
no no not at all the strategy you know from reagan of course and and even earlier
is you know damn the torpedoes we're going to burn all the oil we're going to burn it
as fast as possible even just only to deprive the ussr of it
oh yeah that's that um the spite of the alien cortex that uh um hugh warned everybody about
how if it's going down it'll try to kill everything within its boundaries
anything it can reach yeah
yeah i recently like um came up with another kind of name for the alien cortex
um wedding it i didn't come up with it it sort of just emerged while i was uh painting one day
uh the term uh objectifying intellect
and do you mean that the intellect that makes objects of everything
or even yes but it's uh intellects into objects
i think both so objectifying so um exterior exteriorizing everything so in a way
you know um civilization you know darren and george have been talking about this how a lot of it is
the exteriorization and fossilization of all these capacities so in a way that's what this thing is
doing right you can see it you know uh how he talked about uh civilization is basically the left brain
spilling all over the planet with its square structures
so it's it's just another kind of term uh i'm not suggesting it should supersede anything
that's great though i really do love the uh you know the hallmark of the alien cortex the square the straight line
it's very revealing
uh
well um you know i don't know if anyone has anything on the tip of their tongue but i should probably run
i got another call here in an hour and a half um but really enjoyed our chance to connect today
yeah me too as always yeah it's always great to talk to you and hang out um yeah so i'm sure i'll see
you soon sounds great and db um enjoy the wolves that sounds like fun i think he actually just dropped out
for some reason
uh
uh
Thank you.
Thank you.
