Hello, everybody. Welcome.
If I ask you the question, what do you know?
Well, because we're not in a conversation, it lacks context. It's almost purely abstract.
But if you reflect on the nature of your relationship with knowledge, you're going to discover some
very surprising things. And one of those things is that most of what you know falls into different
categories, as Verveke might ask us to notice. There's conceptual knowledge, linguistic knowledge,
proprioceptive knowledge, knowledge of how to use your body, sensory knowledge, logical knowledge,
memories, episodic experiences, all kinds of things.
But the kinds of knowledge that we ordinarily rely on in our day-to-day experience mostly have to do with the representational layer that humans establish and sustain from generation to generation.
Similarly, if I ask you, what do you believe, we face an even weirder problem, which is why do we have beliefs at all?
What does it mean to believe something?
And knowledge and belief are linked.
They're intricately related to each other.
However, most of belief is relatively nonsensical. And again, relates to the representational layer where we are trained very poorly, in fact, cripplingly, to evaluate and compare identities, qualities, situations, and so forth.
But perhaps one of the most surprising aspects of our relationship with knowledge is that
the fact that arises within the field of conscious awareness transforms dramatically according to the contexts or situations or relationships we find ourselves within, presuming that we're having some of these.
And for many of us in our common day-to-day lives, unless we're creative or playful or lucky enough to have amazing friends, the context is mostly dead.
And relates to things like, what will we do?
And relates to things like, what will I eat next?
What are the tasks I have to perform?
How do I get the money I need to do X?
Or how do I increase the money that I already have to freely do Y?
And so forth.
There are forms of knowledge that are related to these things.
Although I suspect that it's a bit of a misnomer to call that stuff knowledge.
Though manipulating features of the representational layer in civilization, societies, doing this skillfully certainly results in various benefits.
Doing it unskillfully generally results in pain, physically, emotionally, relationally, all kinds of different things.
So there's a kind of a pre-existing gravity within the field of which we will experience what we call punishments or rewards, losses or gains, so forth.
Maybe the ravens are having a bit of a evening celebration at the moment, playing and exploring.
What I can become aware of is different from what I know.
The rewards of awareness are incredibly profound.
Because they are infinite and they hold the promise of freeing us from the strange accoutrement of the forms and modes of cognition we were trained to during the processes of our inlanguaging and enculturation.
One commonly hears adults expressing their concerns for their children's ability to quote function in the world unquote.
To fit in.
To fit in.
To fit in.
To take care of themselves.
Peculiarly American idea there.
One imagines, I imagine, a finger trying to take care of a hand it doesn't belong to.
And in our culture, the meaning of belonging can become quite estranged from anything actually resembling belonging.
But the thing that was in my mind when I began this talk today was just how profound, unexpected and largely unacknowledged the power of the presence of another in our hearts.
But particularly in meet space, but particularly in meet space when we are together, as we say.
How profound that is.
How profoundly it affects what I know.
It changes how I am knowing.
When I am with someone else, all of this language is making me laugh because of how absurd it is.
We have many figures in English that would never arise in anything resembling an actual communal situation.
Where family, extended family, beloved others and so forth are all around us all the time.
To the degree that the idea of privacy, which is a crucial asset in our modern situation.
The idea of privacy becomes a very strange and unusual.
One can imagine people who are deeply communal having no such concept.
In fact, the idea of being alone might be seen as a wildly undesirable situation or even a punishment.
A cruel loss of the organs of our interiority that naturally arise, flourish and develop under the positive and loving, playful and enthusiastic observation of and participation with others.
I can imagine situations in which the word others only refers, it can't refer to anyone I know.
It would only refer to interlopers from outside the world.
In a case where the world is perhaps delimited by that mountain and this river, that forest and so forth.
As a child of modernity, though I was born relatively long ago, in the early sixties,
I understand what is meant generally speaking when this word knowledge is employed.
But its general meanings are trivial.
Because if we're speaking that generally, we're not actually talking about anything.
Over the course of my lifetime, I have developed skills, I have interests, curiosities, passions, hope, desire, all of these things that we humans experience.
But rarely speak in any meaningfully deep way about together.
Thankfully, there are some people in my life who, when we are together, we tend to go deep into exploration.
And playful wonder.
Loving reassurance.
Enthusiastic support of each other's natures and beauties.
Without a field like that, knowledge is rather burdensome and painful.
Although we can enjoy the inaction of skills and developing them.
I am presently trying to learn the piano.
Well, that's a very strange thing to say.
I'm trying to become familiar with this instrument.
And this is always a rather personal process for me.
Because I don't tend to just go for expertise.
Rather, I want magic.
I think I approach instruments and perhaps insight as well in a way that resembles how I might participate in a romantic situation.
But for the moment, with my piano playing, the knowledge that I'm seeking is tactile, physical.
I'm trying to understand how to relate with the keys with my fingers and arms and body and mind in such a way that my relationship becomes more skillful.
So, for now, I'm attempting to gain enough technical facility that what I can imagine musically in my mind can be translated into the instrument.
Although this is not how I ordinarily compose music.
The way that I compose music is usually to simply begin playing around and seeking sequences of tones that speak to me or with which my heart speaks.
So, even, you know, I'm relatively skillful with the guitar.
But even there, I don't usually, it has happened, imagine music and then try to create it with the instrument.
It's similar with insight.
Like a dog chewing on a bone, I play around with some problem that has vexed me or some fascination in my awareness.
And various formalizations arise.
But insight doesn't result from the formulations.
It results from...
It's almost as if some aspect or aspects of the structure of something I'm thinking about catches my attention.
And I notice not exactly a flaw, but I notice an opportunity to see beyond what I've seen before.
To know something new.
And there's an aspect of my interiority that just like a bird aches for the sky, it aches for a new way of being hinted at by a new way of seeing.
And the knowledge that I most enjoy the developmental relationship with is knowledge that at least has the potential to liberate me
from the trappings of my habitual ways of thinking, identifying, evaluating, seeing.
Those of you who are clever may notice a fundamental peculiarity with what I just said.
Because in order to have that concern, I must be evaluating my methods of evaluation.
So what am I doing?
This recursive irony is central to being human.
To being human.
And the Greeks were well aware of this.
The myths, particularly the Oedipal myth, are bastions of ironic light to those of us willing to pursue their intimacies in a deep way.
As a young intellectual, I found myself, as I think many unusually minded folks do, I found myself troubled by what humans do when they engage in what's called small talk.
And I thought, you know, if we're going to be speaking, why don't we speak about things that matter and are important or are deep or complex or beautiful or rich.
For a time in the eighties, I was a mail boy for Stockton savings, which eventually became American savings in Stockton.
And I worked in three buildings downtown.
And they were, you know, five, eight, thirteen story buildings and so forth.
So I spent some good deal of time in the elevator and because people are in very close proximity in the elevator, often with people they're not particularly familiar with, there's a lot of small talk.
And eventually I realized that it wasn't what was being said that was important.
Rather, it was the checking in, right, sort of touching gently on each other's state of mind, situation, consciousness, awareness.
So that people who are suddenly in very close physical proximity can feel more comfortable if they so desire.
But there are all kinds of features of small talk that are profound.
Human communications behavior is incredibly complex, even when it superficially appears simple.
Innuendo, implication, suggestion, metaphor, simile, choice of figures, how things begin, what is step two look like, all of these things, and so much more.
Because we live in a culture where isolation is relatively common, to the degree, hello.
One of the ravens that knows me has come for the special kind of bird heroin that I am known to possess and freely share.
That underground, growing thing that humans call peanuts.
Hmm.
I wonder if birds have anything resembling static tokens.
Hi.
Hi.
In consciousness, with which they refer to phenomena, in a way not dissimilar to Richard Adam's brilliantly, heartfully amazing rabbit language in the book Watership Down.
Which, if you haven't read, I fiercely recommend.
One of the most amazing books I've ever come across.
And fraught with the capacity to liberate us by giving us insight.
Right?
Bringing us new perspectives.
And helping those of us who are confused to understand that animals are fully-fledged beings.
With histories, fears, dreams, hopes, desires, passions, personalities, families, relationships.
It's hard for me to imagine how humans could become so dissociated from their own bodies and what we refer to thinking that it's outside us as nature.
That they would need to be re-educated in the ways that Adams so skillfully employs.
Because rather than coming at the topic the way I probably would from the intellect.
My goodness.
Hi.
Wow.
It's amazing.
Hi.
Hi.
it's amazing hi
it's funny how much i just love humans i love to see when they are together and happy and joyful
and loving one another encouraging each other reminding each other of the core of our nature
which is not much like thinking
and has less to do with knowledge than it does with love
the other day when i was here at the lakeside with my friend josie
there were two there's a there's a little log here
it's got some kind of a cable connected to it it might have once been used to
anchor a boat and
on the log there was a there commonly is a turtle sunning itself
and there was this day
but unexpectedly it was a double-decker turtle it was a two-story
turtle so there was a a large turtle perhaps the circumference of my spread
fingers on my hand and a smaller turtle about the circumference of my palm
resting on the apex of the shell of the lower turtle
extremely difficult to imagine how this physical situation arose
but it was beautiful
if i ask you
what are some things you have knowledge of
the answer would be fascinating if we were together because we could explore
but in a recording
probably it will just bring up
subjects in your mind
when we are together one of the amazing things that's going on
and it closely resembles what's happened certain features of what's going on in dreaming
is that we act as
stimulants
for memory
so we
when we come together
we re-member
in both senses of the word
right
i am no longer alone
a single one by myself
so i am remembered
with another
and we stimulate
and we don't just stimulate each other's memories
we
we restructure them
we inspire them
we develop them
many astonishing things are taking place
each other
if the what's going on in our life
do we intervene
ceu manifestations
then manchmal something is known
when we write it that we want individuals to plan
A common experience occurs under a kind of a confusing and deceptive figuration.
That I am an individual and that I know what I know and I believe what I believe and so
forth and so on.
If a bird tried to fly that way, it would probably fail to crawl, let alone fly.
But in human cognition, we exchange various kinds of presentational crawling for the absence
of flight.
We crawl performatively in language, in concepts.
And if you get the crawling right, then you get a lot of attention.
Perhaps money, opportunities for relationships and so forth.
Relationships are incredibly profoundly valuable.
Without them, you don't get any money.
Right?
Even if the relationships are purely transactional.
No relationships, no food, no home, no money.
It's very difficult to be myself when I'm alone.
But this is part of why I make these recordings.
I'm imagining you out there at some point in the near term or distant future discovering
this recording, perhaps listening to it, hopefully enjoying it, even if only for the music of
the music of my voice and my prosody and my tempo timing of which I speak, which I've been told can be comforting.
There's some humans jogging and they're doing that, they're doing all the things, right?
They're remembering each other, they're laughing, they're exercising, they're raising their heart rate
and pumping more blood through that astonishingly complex entity.
That we have this word body to represent.
I find representational knowledge fascinating.
I'm not opposed to it.
I think I'm opposed, perhaps if anything, to its dominance and capacity to sever us from intimacy
and wonder and play, exploration, though it can also drive those things.
Perhaps the primary problem or a primary problem is that when it drives those things,
the results are usually pre-captured by commerce, industry, war, banks, and so on.
Yes, when I am alone, I do sometimes reflect and chase the parapets of my curious existence.
What's casting that shadow in my consciousness, I might ask myself, and I chase it for a while
and I find, hmm, I'm using a habit to protect myself from feeling deeply and seeing more beautifully.
Why?
Why might I do that?
Why?
Why might I do that?
Well, it's a complex matter, isn't it?
I don't have a ready answer.
However, there's an aspect of our interiority, an executive aspect, that finds the existence
of non-graspables threatening to its dominance over the nature, value, character, and function
of all phenomena.
And that poor bastard, who's never actually had a bodily experience, and is primarily a
conceptual construct, is very frightened of being discovered.
You know, some would say, oh, you're afraid of being vulnerable and so forth.
It's not so much that.
Vulnerability tends to pay off pretty well in my life, if, you know, I'm seeking rewards.
No, it's not that.
It's the knower is threatened, the guy who thinks he knows stuff, the aspect of my interiority,
that presides over knowledge.
And it's very easy to confuse that aspect with myself.
If I'm not experiencing, remembering, insight, love, playful, developmental efflorescence,
I love that word.
I may use it too often, but yeah, that's a great word.
To flower, right, to effloresce.
And in my common day-to-day life, which is relatively thoroughly isolated, I have conversations
with humans, but most of them are not in person.
I see many humans around me, nearby.
We rarely meet and converse.
And in my isolation, just probably like almost anyone, or like many of us in any case, the
fire in my heart tends to die down.
And things become matters of pragmatism.
Oh, I should clean the dishes and ensure there's food for later and, you know, handle the accounting
and so forth.
And it's surprising that the great luxury of Western civilization has produced so few meaningful
ways of being together with and for each other.
There's a bunch of myths about that underlying the foundation of the kleptocracy that I presently
live within, otherwise known as Theftorama, some kind of cluster fork of bad cartoons.
Now more than ever in history, perhaps.
So when someone does come to visit, or we walk together, or speak together, it's very exciting.
I come to life like a sea anemone opening up.
We bring each other back to life.
Then we play and remember and explore together.
It's beautiful.
A mind, like an identity, is not a static thing at all.
The language is very deceptive.
It transforms wildly if I do anything.
Somebody I'm acquainted with on Facebook, Gabrielle, the other day said something resembling.
She probably said it in French.
Every time I think something, I become a different person.
There is someone who's understanding what's really going on.
Every task, if someone asks me a question or says something to me, boom, I am transforming.
This is really what we do.
We transform each other when we're together.
And although we are inclined to do so according to familiar modes and habits, it's exciting
when we're relieved from that, particularly in the ways that brilliant speakers are skillful
with.
But there's one thing, one sort of behavior that all humans love with some few exceptions,
laughter.
And what comedians are doing mostly involves taking our habitual ways of thinking and just
bending them a little bit.
And there's so many different modes of this.
Each comedian becomes in our experience as they effectively take control of our consciousness
and awareness.
They become like an inner voice that's ordinarily silent, but extremely insightful and usually
just wants to play.
I remember when I was young, I was really fond of comedy.
I used to buy recordings of comedians, George Carlin, Lenny Bruce, Sam Kinnison, Bobcat Goldthwaite.
And I was just fascinated how, I couldn't imagine how it was, oh Steve Martin, I just couldn't
imagine how it was that they could produce these figures in their minds.
I wanted to become like them.
I wanted to become like everyone.
I wanted to be liked.
And I still do.
I was fascinated by the specific modes of intelligence involved in producing humorous figures and metaphors, too.
Science fiction authors were really almost like encountering aliens.
And the humans seem to be very concerned about whether there are aliens or not.
The problem with that question is that there isn't anything else.
So if you're trying to figure out what they are, you're going to have some very confusing
and difficult moments in that quest because there really isn't any other thing.
An alien is myself in a different situation.
But the science fiction authors were extremely peculiar and fascinating to me.
They had a form of vision that I hoped to acquire but that seemed impossible to acquire.
I had no idea how they would formulate not just the ideas which themselves are profound but the stories.
The dreaming while awake that happens inside a novel.
Who are you when you are reading a novel?
You are literally importing the experiences and perceptions, imaginings and speech of others
who probably don't actually exist.
And humans are concerned about what's real?
The most real thing is the unreality that we experience moment to moment, day to day.
The self I think I know is a glove that I'm so used to putting on and so familiar with
that perhaps I do feel a bit scared about taking it off.
Underneath that fear are two more universal ones.
The simple one is the fear of rejection or judgment.
The fear of negative observation, which for humans is pretty damn primordial.
The one after that is death, which I think is frightening, but is mostly a kind of a phony figure.
However, I don't think there is anything like that.
We confuse the death of the body with the death of something we have failed to understand.
And once again, the aspect that finds that frightening is poorly equipped for being a being at all
and well-equipped for manipulating concepts in consciousness, figurations, right, formations,
literally structures, in a sense, of concern, thought, previous thought, possibility spaces.
It's a vigilance game.
The vigilance thing goes really, really deep in humans.
But I've blathered on about that enough lately that I'll overlook it here.
The thing I think that's truly fascinating is we're afraid of death.
But not quite as afraid as we are of life.
The truly infinite possibility space of existence as a human being.
Open at every moment to play improvisation, wonder, awe, remembering, joy, rescue, heroism, beauty.
That's a much more frightening space to us than death.
And if you find that peculiar, or you doubt me, you doubt my words, just look at cities.
Or anything, really, a car, your kitchen, the structured continuity with which we turn down the volume on vigilance
and simultaneously on creativity.
It's far more terrifying than death.
This is the thing I'm probably most afraid of.
Existing.
Existing.
I mean, all of the common fears.
The body.
It's delicacy.
The heart.
Judgment.
All of these things.
They're relatively profound.
But I suspect, and in fact it's my experience, that when I reflect deeply,
as I'm trying to do now,
I'm at least making the attempt to go in that direction.
What I discover are defenses against living fully.
Being present, awake, aware, alive.
And, you know, what is at risk there?
There are some things that are at risk.
One's reputation as a human being in modernity has become confused with icons and representations,
but is nonetheless fundamentally important in a primordial way for humans.
The loss of reputation or the failure to gain or compose one
is a serious risk.
But yes, this death thing.
We're doing it all the time.
No wonder we're afraid of it.
We're trapped in it in most of the aspects of our common existence.
But it's not the end of ourselves
or the disappearance of myself
in some final way associated with the
loss of my body
or the cessation of bodily functions.
It's not that.
It's something far more familiar.
something resembling
the end of the sleep cycle
in which we are free
to varying degrees
and depths
in the experience we call dreaming.
the mode of experience we call dreaming.
What an astonishing thing a mind must be
such that each time we fall asleep
a kind of a
definitely a little death
for the waking mind
and the knowledge guy
and
the person who knows stuff
the waking persona
all these things
these
disappear
into sleep
so
death is as familiar to us
as sleep and dreaming is
but there's a
kind of a worse thing
which isn't necessarily all bad
or the same kind of bad
each day
or the same kind of bad
for each one of us
it's having to live
in a structured construct
that's fundamentally dead inside
and
where it doesn't overtly celebrate
resurrect and encourage
our deepest
urgencies
it anesthetizes them
or puts them down
yes perhaps what I'm most afraid of
is living
an adventureless
and relatively trivial
day-to-day existence
in which nothing beautiful or amazing
is muchly going on
and largely
I'm trying to establish
a bulwark
to protect
something
against being
intruded upon
what a strange situation
unimaginable
to anyone
who's not stuck
like a fly
in amber
inside it
well I'm coming now
to the very noisy place
where the machines
dominate the space
I'm grateful
as always
to have this time together
to learn
and explore
and grow
to remember
and enjoy
the exciting
theme music
of nearby others
thank you for joining me
I wish you
every beautiful
way of growing
and healing
learning
remembering
more soon
my friends
peace for now
and مت
I wish you
I wish you
I wish you
and be
I wish you
2023
I wish you
you
you
you
you
you
