Hey everybody.
So you got me on another walk through the city here.
I'll try and choose routes that don't require as much attention because normally, if you're
walking around the city, you want to be paying very close attention to everything around
you.
I was thinking earlier how cities are a bit like monsters that attract us with their flashy
fashion and style and then consume us slowly, hopefully slowly, over the rest of our lives
if we should get stuck in them like I did.
These are the local boxes with lots of square windows in them.
Apparently somebody thought this would be a good idea for people to live in.
Wow.
That's some serious confusion and idiocy in my view.
Though, you know, being protected from what's outside is important and prison walls provide
a pretty damn good protection.
What's on my mind?
Well, a lot of things are on my mind as if my mind were a table that could have things
on it.
Typography is really important in cities.
There's an interesting example.
We're seeing more and more examples of upside-down letters, letters substituted from other languages
such as Russian, inside the words, lots of what we might think of as experimental stuff.
All of that has to do with fashion, style, and representation.
That's one of the things that's on my mind right now.
I was recently up in Lake Arrowhead and a number of people there, I could say a lot,
if we actually did the statistics, probably less than around 8%, maybe less.
These people have statues of bears in the front of their house.
It's a mural, a mural creation activity over there.
I did a lot of walking at night when I was there.
I like to go for long walks.
I'm presently on a pretty damn long walk right now.
Maybe a five-mile walk total back from Mission Bay where I had an appointment with an optometric
surgeon.
I might have the lingo slightly skewed there.
If you can see it, I'll give you a peek at it in a moment here when I'm across the street.
I have a small lesion on the lower lid of my right eye.
Well, they call it a lesion.
It looks like what we normally refer to as a mole, pigmented skin.
They wanted to have a close look at it and they'd like to maybe shave a tiny piece off
of it and send that to the pathologists to ensure it's not a melanoma.
The need to ensure something isn't something else is a kind of a quirky idea, particularly
when the procedure involves making an anesthetic injection into my lower eyelid and then manually
with an actual scalpel shaving something off a little tiny thing on the outside of my eyelid
is already quite small.
I mean, I get why they're concerned about it, but I think they're mostly concerned about
it to make some more money rather than to protect my health.
So I don't know if that's going to happen.
We'll see.
But yeah, right now I'm walking back from Mission Bay to my house where I live.
And it's a bit of a hike, and it's a pretty warm day, and frankly, I'm overdressed.
So maybe I'll take some of this stuff off, hang on to my mask.
So when I was in Lake Arrowhead, I noticed that a number of houses had statues of bears
in front of them.
Most of these statues were carved out of wood.
And I know enough about representation to understand something of how it comes to be.
Most people have statues of bears in front of their houses, but would pretty happily
have all the bears exterminated if most of that's not already been accomplished.
And I think it has.
Remember when I first got there, my friend who lived there seemed really concerned about
bears.
And I was like, well, I'm pretty sure I'd survive an encounter with a bear up here.
It's not like you have grizzlies.
Black bears don't really attack human beings very rarely.
I've got to wonder what's in this old mask.
And I'm pretty sure a group of my friends, including Sutton Pearson, Gary Paolini, who
else, couple other guys, got arrested or almost arrested after breaking into this building
or won very much like it in the mid-90s, just for adventure.
So I suppose one could consider this a relatively dangerous neighborhood.
Here's the view toward downtown.
I'm in a part of San Francisco that people refer to as Soma, which is south of market.
But it could also be, yeah, it's south of market.
That's true.
So anyway, I remember seeing these statues, and it suddenly struck me that statues like
that are usually evidence that something's been exterminated or is dead by the time you
get the representations, especially the concrete representations that statues comprise.
Most of what their statues of is usually been exterminated, especially if it's an animal
living place, river.
Not that you can make a statue of a river, just a little glimpse of the neighborhood
here.
So I was looking at these statues, and as art, they're attractive, they're detailed,
they're impressive, but they are representations.
You don't need representations when you're intimately in touch with the as-yet-unrepresented.
So you know, you can't make a statue of a kiss.
You can't make a statue of love, though you can represent adoration.
But I was just thinking about how ironic it is that we humans wipe shit out and then make
statues commemorating it.
As if, well, you know, the dead representation is extremely safe, isn't it?
There's no risk, and it's also a commodity that can be traded, sold, photographed, appreciated,
aesthetically.
It's got all these qualities that might be a little difficult to attach to a live bear.
But then I was thinking of other similar kinds of things that we make statues of once they're
dead.
People we think of as heroes, I mean, I think it's a terrifying idea, but it's because
my sense of the nature of representation and some of the incredibly dangerous functions
it serves in our lives, minds, and societies is sharp, right?
That sense in me is very sharp.
So I'm extremely aware of these kinds of things, and even the way that we use language to represent
the unrepresented and what might otherwise be participated in intimately.
In a way, not dissimilar to when I hug someone I love or a kiss or jogging or direct visual
fascination with a flower, a tree, a mountain, the sky, the sun, the stars.
All of these things.
So yeah, I'm pretty sure that by the time we started seeing statues, for example, of
Christ, that whole game was in the shitter pretty much.
You know, by the time you get the explicit representations like that, whatever they were
supposed to encode has pretty much disappeared from common awareness, access, participation,
understanding, awareness.
And now what you're getting is kind of the leftover shell, right?
The wrapping paper.
And the humans like to trade that wrapping paper as a commodity of identity and identification,
pretending to understand incredibly profound matters that representations effectively in
near us to, right?
They stand as a buffer between us and the experience that they seem to promise.
So everybody wears a cross and some of them have little statues of a dead Messiah on them.
A Messiah who the people would certainly kill again today or he to re-emerge in our common
modern context.
And in fact, they probably have, I mean, in a way, the soul of every child is like that
Messiah.
And although we don't execute every child, we crucify their spirits on the cross of
modernity, representation, commodification, language, identification, all these shuns.
More boxes.
Apparently if you paint them really colorfully, people will forget that they're prisons.
Feels a little risky being out here in this way.
So vulnerable in the age of COVID.
So one of the things that was on my mind was the way that we, there's this strong propensity
to wipe out nature and the participated and replace it with images, statues, language,
clinical analysis, measurement, accounting, money.
After all, money is the representation of value, right?
But money is nothing like value, it just replaces it in all kinds of weird and many fiercely
toxic ways.
In my last walk through the city, I talked a bit about when I first came here and worked
for the GIA Gallery, GHIA, where we were funerary activists helping people to evade the essentially
organized crime family associated with the funeral industry in our country.
And today in my appointment, I was right over by where I first lived in the city in that
gallery.
It's over on Third Street, way out near China Basin, not quite there, mostly, I guess it's
called Mission Bay now.
It used to be pretty hellish back when I lived there now.
It's still quite sterile, but not as dangerous as it used to be.
Here's a view.
GIA, I think most of our cities are kind of like complicated monster traps that mostly
digest us once we're captured by their gravity.
And usually that gravity is, well, it's most often financial, let's put it that way.
Some of it can be relational, but I remember a couple of my friends moved here before I
did in the 80s, Tamara Freeman, one of the most beautiful women I ever had the pleasure
of kissing, and another rather strange person, one of my cohort back then, but a guy I didn't
get along with that great, probably because he was nefarious.
He was ethically nefarious in a sort of Machiavellian way, which, of course, is usually a clear
indication of some kind of insecurity, Gabe Prieto.
And I remember them both telling me how incredibly lonely they were here, and how it was just
really, really hard to make friends.
Even though back then it was pretty, you know, there was a lot of, how should I put this,
there was a lot of cultural richness and diversity here.
But as you can see even now, many years later we're talking, I don't know, fuck, 40 years
later almost.
This is a harsh place to live, and this is one of the good places, right?
There's a lot of noise, a lot of competition, threats everywhere, and, you know, coupled
with that some degree of enhanced opportunity, too.
If you know how to work a city, you can make a lot of money here, and you can make some
lasting relationships here, though I'm not sure any of the relationships that I've formed
here actually lasted much, and I probably have some responsibility for that.
Very likely, big towers, big prizes.
So yeah, okay, that was a piece of a tree that tried to get into my mouth, I'm not too
upset about that.
I mean, ordinarily I put pieces of trees in my mouth voluntarily, but you never know
when you see something like what it might be like that's coming toward your mouth.
Boxes and square, rectangles and structure, walls, impregnable walls.
Oh wow, there's CIIS, surprised they still exist, probably not for a whole bunch longer.
You can see their sign up there, deep inquiry, consciousness, eco-justice.
Those are soon to be exterminated virtues.
And of course, those are representations, right?
The word we get in the thing and we get in the word, probably mostly the word, right?
Not so much the thing.
It's a very sunny, warm day here in San Francisco, a city named after St. Francis of Assisi,
who was known to have a very special way with animals in living places, and I remember when
I came here, I thought, this is where I'll learn to be an angel.
Not the phony kind of angel, real kind, not the representation, the soul of the thing.
I halfway succeeded, at least halfway, maybe a little more.
Sorry about the wind, there's nothing I can really do about it.
For the moment, I can't escape it.
And this is where I am, 49 South Venice, whatever the hopeless terror that means.
So, once the spirit dies out, you get the representation.
Once the essence is used up, sucked dry, vampirically destroyed, turned into food or fuel or money
or poison, then you get the representation.
And I mean, it's not always true.
Not all of representational cognition and activity is bad or wrong, but a lot of it
is, and there's just terrible dangers associated with it, but most of us are completely blind
to throughout our entire lives.
And I, myself, was mostly blind.
I was, let's say that I was consciously blind in that I was aware of many of these things
peripherally but could not articulate them.
And I had to have a very surprising experience when I was 39, with a non-human intelligence
that exposed these ideas to me and sort of took me on a tour through the evolution of
human consciousness and language, among many, among many, among many other things.
And that's where my awareness became conscious, and I became able to articulate my concerns
and interests in these things.
So this is a pretty famous intersection, Market and Van Ness.
That's Sutro Tower in my neighborhood, way back there, a really terrifying radio antenna
that dominates the entire, that entire quadrant of the city, primarily though because it's
the only super tall structure there, Lighthouse Immersive.
Here's a place where you can see representations.
You go to museums, representations, right?
The art gallery, representations.
The store, all the little objects, representations.
And those little kiosks, representations.
Here's some representations built right into the landscape.
Although they're very vague and blurry, they appear to be man on horses and cats and things.
Notice that there are no man on horses or cats and things here.
There are just statues of them.
Very blurry statues of them because they've been gone for a long fucking time.
So now the representations are blurry.
The girl is wearing a shirt that says, the future is in sight.
Absolutely false, unless what is meant by the future is what is directly in front of
you on your path.
But again, a concept represented in language.
It's very compelling superficially, you see.
But if you try to unpack it, it's either meaningless or just base lying.
Well, let's see.
I think I'm going to cross the street here, though I could go a little further.
Maybe I'll go a little further.
Well, nope, the light changed.
I'll grab this crossing here.
Four boxes, lots of boxes, lots of squares, rectangles, glass, steel and concrete.
These are a few of my unfavorite things.
What I like a lot is organisms.
And frankly, I'm kind of into girls.
And that is.
When I was young, I guess we always just referred to females mostly as girls, unless they were
matrons, right?
Unless they were like grandmothers.
But yeah, the colloquial term, his girl, in my lexicon.
And people often look at me funny these days because I guess you're supposed to be more
specific.
Again, this is another problem with getting too interested in language is that now you
have to have 12,000 different ways to say which kind of human being you want to be seen
as and spoken to as.
I used to joke that I identify as invisible, so if you refer to me at all, it's a violation
of my rights.
As you can tell, I'm not a huge fan of, I'm not only not a huge fan, I would say that
I'm openly opposed to many facets of the movement, a movement I see as primarily a
linguistic distortion movement that we call political correctness.
And though I would say I'm in favor of what was once called equal rights, I think that
idea is also very dangerous, not because of the idea of equality, although if you look
very carefully at the language, equality means an accounting process is being done, right?
And once you're involved in accounting that way, especially accounting about identity,
values and rights, you're already in a sort of, it seems to me you're already in a trap.
Yeah.
Sorry, I was just doing a little bit of window shopping there, because there is an object
that I need.
It seems very unlikely that I'll acquire it, but it's conceivable.
So for example, the idea that one could possibly mandate equality is pretty fucking bizarre.
And there's also even a problem with the idea of rights, because rights are what you get
when the social structure is so broken that you have to have this kind of discussion about
whether or not my rights or your rights or someone else's rights are being violated or
whether or not they are being fulfilled, right?
So in my view or in one of the views I prefer, I don't have a single view on anything.
I don't think.
I like not to anyway.
The whole conversation about rights is dangerously misguided.
Most people will have only those rights and no more and many much less than that they
can afford to defend in court.
And for the average person, that's nearly none.
So those aren't rights.
There's something else.
This is another case where the language is extremely deceptive, dangerously and toxically
deceptive, because it leads us to think of the world in terms that the world cannot exist
in those terms ever.
It never will and it never has.
So on the one hand, in principle, I believe in the ideals that we dance around with language
like equal rights, I believe in the ideals or maybe even believe in is the wrong word.
I affirm and value the ideals that the words equal rights are a kind of weird modern counterfeit
of something like that.
But you only get something resembling equal rights or rather you get something that the
idea of equal rights resembles in intimate, intelligent culture, something we pretty much
have the opposite of.
And that's not likely to change unless there's some kind of extreme catastrophe or disaster
that leads to the human population being decimated and us forming small tribal-like groups again.
Now I'm not saying that's the solution.
That's a grim possibility and it would take a long time before those groups had the sort
of luxury of becoming intelligent, compassionate, intimate and kind because for the first, who
knows, 500 years of that it would be a clusterfuck of domination wars most likely and struggles
for resources.
But it's possible to have equanimity and something resembling equality and small cohorts.
It seems to me unlikely that we'll ever implement that in cohorts like nations or the monstrous
atrocities we think of as societies.
See what's all that fluff at the top, right, these sort of, what are they, they're not
ensigns, well they're symbols of a kind with leaves around them and flowers inside, shields
and badges and bells and stars.
Memories of ages gone by, we've lost the meanings for those symbols to common awareness but
they probably had to do with loyalty, authority, virtue and maybe virility, fertility.
So in my last walk through the city I talked a lot about my friend Dan Davidson who committed
suicide and I just wanted to let anyone who saw that video know that I did stop by his
old house and had a moment of reverent remembrance for him.
The puzzle of equality will not be solved by mandates and in truth there's nothing
like equality.
The idea of equality is an idea that arises from the myth of the explicit individual,
right, that the individual me should be treated in all ways equally to another individual.
And there's certainly something important about that idea in a situation where the myth
of individuality is dominant, get ready, this is called the silly pink bunny statue,
it doesn't seem particularly silly to me, it seems very grim.
So in a culture where individuality, the individual is enforced, punished, rewarded, ignored,
subject to various kinds of usury and financial abuse and also other kinds of financial windfalls.
Certainly there's plenty of abuse here in San Francisco but if I were to go to another
country, a third world country or something, someone who lived in poverty here might be
extremely wealthy there because the American dollar in some countries is very highly valued.
It seems to me that while I am an individual it's true in some senses and that my body
is distinct from yours.
It's a seemingly separate body but we are intimately connected through context.
It's one planet here, just one little droplet of water floating in space-time and so our
extended body is all of life and I was thinking the other day since humans get things conceptually
backwards all the time, what if we got the idea of outside our body backwards, what if
everything outside our body is actually inside our body and everything inside our body is
actually outside our body.
There are certainly ways in which this is so, even though it may not seem to be the explicit
truth and it's very useful to entertain such ideas because by doing so we can learn things
that would be otherwise impossible for us to conceive of or entertain in thought and
awareness.
So here I am on Haight and Webster.
I'm about to get some food so I may wrap up pretty soon here.
I'm going to go to the place I showed last time, Metro Cheese Stake Shop, where last
time I was here making a video I met the owner and we talked about the history of both Metro
and Zipzap, where I had my first haircut in San Francisco and where I got invited to
a performance party, was able to read some of my poems and was extremely well received
and made a large number of friends that night.
Here's some pretty amazing art.
I like the Egyptian-esque mural down beneath it too.
A lot of the old Victorian houses here are quite beautiful and there's all these little
shops.
I mean this display has been here for more than 20 years.
Someone lives here, right?
So this is the Haight, H-A-I-G-H-T, and people make signs say lower, H-A-T-E, this is the
lower Haight.
There's a lot more to discuss but I'm going to close with a few comments about the nature
of identity.
There's a public aspect and a private aspect and these two are, they're bound together
in ways that resemble the Tao symbol.
By the way, here's some more display action.
May all places be held sacred, may all beings be cherished, may all injustices of oppression
and devaluation be fully righted, remedied and healed, may all who are captured by hatred
be free to love, to the love that is our birthright, may all who are bound by fear discover the
safety of understanding, may all who are weighed down by grief be given over to the joy of
being, may all who are lost in delusion find a home on the path of wisdom, may all wounds
to forests, rivers, deserts, oceans, all wounds to Mother Earth be lovingly restored to bountiful
health.
May all beings everywhere delight in whale song, bird song and blue sky, may all beings
abide in peace and well-being, awaken and be free.
It's a beautiful dream in this world, incredibly unlikely, nonetheless crucial to preserve the
vision of.
So there's a public and a private aspect to our being and our identity and as long as
we continue to believe that we are and should be treated as individuals and we live in societies
that are barely social and mostly prison-like, founded on the virtues of commodity, finance
and economy rather than the virtues of loving kindness, humanity, wonder and learning, then
we're going to continue to have these bizarre resurgence of lethally confused agendas that
pretend to a virtue they can never encompass or provide.
And this is part of the problem we face with democracy.
It's part of the problem we face with political correctness.
What we're actually seeing is a weird kind of masquerade where something resembling fascism
finds some way to mimic virtue and thus be transmitted, propagated, advanced, developed,
fertilized.
And I think it's important that we recognize both the virtues that underlie the ideals and
also the malignance that underlies many of the implementations.
So for now, I'm going to sign off and go get a cheese steak over here.
Here I am at pretty sure it's Hayton Fillmore.
There's Zipzap and Metro, a little grocery store where my friend Dan used to shop all
the time.
This is where I am.
Much love to you all.
All blessings.
Be safe.
Be well.
May the light of being and intelligence surround and lift you from whatever troubles you may
suffer.
Bye bye.
Bye.
Bye.
