I've been thinking a little bit about our culture and our thinking and work and money.
We, many of us anyway, go to work to make money and our work is often strange in that
it's conflicted and it's duplicitous.
So while the car salesman is pretending that his car is the best and maybe even has convinced
himself or herself of it, they secretly know that this whole job is just a lie.
And that cars are dangerous and selling them is crazy.
There's part of us that knows that the, quote, jobs, unquote, we do, there's something wrong
with them.
We do them anyway and I guess we do them for money.
Or so we tell ourselves and many of us anyway.
Some of us have jobs that are more fulfilling and more rich, deeper, but even most of those
jobs are infected with the same kind of duplicitous conflict.
And it occurred to me that we work against nature and we work against our own sanity
and our humanity.
And we pretend that this is all well and good and we pay our taxes, which fund many terrible
things and fail to fund many beautiful things.
It just seems to me that we're working against ourselves and we're working against the hope
of our humanity and intelligence and we're perpetuating a nightmarish facade that's killing
people's lives and hearts and families and destroying the planet, wiping out life on
or poisoning the atmosphere in all kinds of new ways each week.
It's not a stable nightmare, it's an explosively self-progressing nightmare.
And if we're working against nature as a people or any kind of collective, if what we're
doing is causing egregious harm to the natural world, in the products that we're making
or selling or buying or trading, or even the ways that we use our technologies and machines.
If we're working against nature, we're working against ourselves, our bodies, our nature,
our minds are an aspect of nature.
And when we're working against nature, we're working against each other and our jobs are
working against each other.
We're not working for each other and we're not really working for ourselves, we're working
for the sake of fictions that are lethal in their agenda and their structure and their
activity and have long been.
And we're working to belong, quote unquote, to fictional collectives that we didn't establish
and that actually don't exist as persons and have no concern whatsoever for us, the planet,
our future, their concerns like their basis is fictional.
And so somehow we have to find a way, become a way of working with nature for each other
and the hope of our human intelligence, the hope of life on earth, the hope of belonging
to authentic collectives, the hope of forging them, for the promise of our human birth and
history, for the promise of human and living hope.
We have to stop working against nature, against our own intelligence and find ways to work
for each other, with and for each other and for the history of life on earth and its future.
I'm not disinterested in money or wealth, I don't have much of either, but most of the
jobs that I've worked, I worked them primarily for the benefit of having a role, being useful
to others, solving problems, learning.
I needed the money to pay the rent and buy the food and funds of the car and things like
that, but I didn't see the job primarily in terms of what it paid cash wise, I saw it
in terms of how it paid off by giving me opportunities to serve others, solve problems and learn
excellent skills.
I wanted to learn and I felt that in every situation I was in, even in those that were
duplicitous and conflicted, I could learn how to see both what a better way might look
like and what was wrong with this one.
And I struggled against the trenchant culture of the workplace and the larger orders of
the culture that surround and enclose and inform it, bureaucracy and falseness, but
I was excited to be working because I was excited to be learning not so much because
I was excited to be making money although it's good to be paid for one's work.
In our culture it's important and even when I was making a lot of money working for myself,
there wasn't as much duplicity or confusion.
The cultures that surround work made that extremely difficult and costly and painful
to pursue.
We can slowly transform what we're doing into action for others that lifts us all up
together whose primary pay is in humanity and new forms of intelligence and ways of
being human together, understanding our place in nature and its potentials, the potentials
of our minds and our human birth.
Rather than having the results of being sold back broken copies of that that could never
work and are based on lies and then living our lives out working in roles within these
fictions that are destroying us and everything that's true and beautiful.
So I think there's another way to work together and I think we can learn it and practice it.
Almost anything would be better than the incredible suffering and deprivation that we get from
all the other things we do.
If I work for you and you work for me and after that other things are secondary, we've
got a shot at a very different way of living and being and seeing our humanity and it's
not a question of capitalist society or communist society, it's not a question of the stark
polarities that we're often faced with as if we had to decide on one or the other.
No, there's a kind of liquid democracy where people learn to see and work together with
and for each other that happens rather naturally if the context will even allow Nevermind support
it and so it's obvious that we must establish and sustain such contexts together and I hope
that in the ongoing conversation and discovery we will see that any other choice is really
quite unthinkable.
