Hello everybody. Welcome. It's evening. Moon's in her first quarter. You know, every time
before I begin making a recording, it's funny, I just walked by a building and said,
why? You are currently being recorded. So I guess I'm recorded while I'm recording.
But yeah, when I first begin, sometimes I have a clear map in my mind of the terrain I want to
wander in. But I always take a moment to remember. Actually, I'm taking a moment now to remember.
All of the beings who have ever lived on our world and strove throughout their lives
to nourish and heal and sustain the world. Those people and animals and living places
and creatures in which what I might call the original mission was still alive and bright
and powerful. So I'm taking a moment right now to remember them. All of the people
countless lives in various different versions of this world over time who ached for the sake
of beauty and not so much truth, which has become a value laden word in our time. But
something more like communion, unity, remembering. A new hope for a better world for the living
places and the animals and the children, their children. But the thing that's interesting
about that to me is that if we can make things even a little bit better now, then our ancestors
wake up and cheer. And I think they're with us all the time and not merely in some metaphysical
model. No, I think they're actually with us. I think our bodies are made of them. So right now I'm
remembering those beings that strove for beauty, authenticity, virtues, sincerity, love. To raise
the water that raises all the boats. And I'm honoring them in my heart. And you might even say I'm invoking
them to walk with us and think with us and see with us together right now. And I'm also
remembering and honoring those of you who pay attention and listen and reflect on and share and
learn around the topics that we explore together. And though I often present perspectives that I find
redolent with insight and opportunity for seeing and learning and understanding. Every time I begin this
process, I remember all of you. And I wonder, what's in your heart? What's in your mind? Why do you come to
listen? And some of you listen to everything I do. And others come and take a sample. And probably don't
find anything too juicy in that little sample. But I'm trying to change the way I understand what it means to be
alive. And I'm trying to see through the strange, prison-eared representation of ourselves and the world and
relationships that we all struggle with. And I've been lucky enough a few times in my life to have staggering insight,
which I will say is similar to imagining, but much more like a form of memory. It's not as if I'm discovering
something. It's as if I'm taking the occlusions away. And then I remember, ah, this is familiar. This is a better way of
seeing. And a way from which I can learn to remember more. Many of the ancient philosophers sang the praises of
memory and surely, their memories, well, first of all, without books, if you strove to learn, you'd have to be able to
speak and listen and draw and maybe do some math. So because they had no recordings, they transmitted knowledge primarily
through coming together and chasing it. And starting with that agreement, the agreement among a group of people to try to remember, to give birth to the
memories in us that are by no means merely human. But our ancestors had other forms of memory and we have pieces of them if we choose to develop them in our lifetime. And when I'm making these
recordings, that's part of my goal. Because if I don't imagine the minds of others with my own in sacred quest for understanding and awareness for intelligence, for creativity, for insight, then my
wings become weak and it's hard to even lift my own mind. So I remember all of you who have come to listen and learn together. And I hope you find something truly amazing, perhaps even
astonishing. As we wander through the forest of the possibilities of our minds and origins, our ways of life, our ways of seeing. It's common for us to suppose most of what we're
taught in academia, with some brilliant exceptions, supposes, that our ancestors were essentially the same sort of humans we are. That they thought like us, dreamed like us, remembered like us,
behaved like us, and ached for awakening like us, ached for liberation. I don't think it's true because
the infinite potentials of our existence are poorly encompassed by our stories and paradigms, words, concepts. And in many cases, they're crippled or occluded.
And I think that it's very likely that the human minds alive at any moment on earth form something that resembles a single body that I'll call the Cognition.
And it has endless forms of connections. It doesn't have only the connection of speaking to one another, writing to one another, reading, seeing. It has non-ordinary connections. I call those the Mimula.
And so it was as if there was a unique world mind of the humans in each age, in each epoch. And they bled together when they changed.
But over time, many of our most precious faculties have largely been lost, though occasionally we find someone that, for example, can remember the sequence of the digits of pi to a thousand or more decimal places.
In other words, we see hyperbolic, narrow superfunction.
Ididic memory is a profound thing, but it seems a rather ridiculous and, how shall I put it?
With a memory like that, imagine what we could do with a resource like that, who we could become.
I think the ancient peoples had other kinds of memory, and we do too. We're just mostly not familiar with them.
Throughout my life, certainly since childhood, I paid close attention to anomalies.
And it wasn't that I wanted to prove the adults wrong, so much as it was that I doubted their certainty about words naming things, models, maps, concepts.
I once had, as a child, an unusual dream experience.
And in the dream experience, I became a ball of green light, and I floated up out of my body, but I was in my bedroom.
And I made a circuit, how ironic, of the bedroom as a ball of green light.
And I could see my body on the bed. Actually, I'm not sure if that's true.
I think I just supposed that that was true. I can't actually remember.
And I was extremely concerned about one feature of the room.
I could see the wires in the walls, and I was very concerned about the electrical sockets.
I don't have an explicit explanation for that, but I felt that there was something very dangerous there.
And when I awoke, I probably called my mother with my voice in the house.
Mom, mom.
And she came in, sat by my bed, lovingly.
And I explained my experience.
And she said something like, the funny thing is she's probably listening right now,
and she said, don't worry, honey, it was just a dream.
And over the years, my memory may have modulated, memories often do.
So I'm not claiming that I remember precisely what took place.
In fact, to remember precisely what took place would be impossible because it would mean
you'd have infinite understanding of a situation that you remember.
Though it's relatively easy to describe a sequence of happenings or events.
So my mother was sitting at my bedside, and I felt like I had just become something that was supposed to be impossible.
I became a little green orb of light.
Now, something strange must have been going on for lots of reasons.
But how did I know that I became a green light?
And actually, I'm not sure it was an orb.
It might have been like a cloud.
So how would I know that?
Why would I think that or say that if, in fact, I wasn't seeing the whole room?
How did I know I became green?
So I felt, though I didn't have this language then,
that something impossible and magical and astonishing had just happened.
Something that violated the entire charade of language and knowledge and thought.
Something that the adults should know about because they seemed to know everything.
In childhood, my parents were like gods to my heart, to my mind.
They were infinitely filled with knowledge and experience.
I had none of, or little of, it seemed.
So I felt like something world-shattering had just occurred.
And my mother was trying to tell me that it was just a dream.
And I knew it wasn't because I'd had dreams.
And I knew it wasn't a dream.
It was something different than a dream.
To my mother's credit, she may have known and been concerned about possibilities.
She may have had experiences, my father certainly did,
that were not dreams that happened when you're lying in bed.
Perhaps she felt they were dangerous.
But what could be less dangerous than rediscovering our actual nature?
Our faculties, our senses, our abilities, not as humans, as beings.
Percentages can be deceptive and they can be used deceptively.
But from probably most of the important perspectives,
nine-tenths of us isn't merely human.
There are so much more than this body and these stories and these descriptions
that compared to those, our actual nature, it's not merely infinite,
it's explosively infinite.
But something inhibits us, most of us, when we're awake, from remembering.
In some ways, it's as if there are features of the human cognizium, the network of minds, in our time,
that grow and propagate based on the amount of inhibition of our nature
that, quote, they can get away with, unquote.
It leads into the direction where I talk about the processes that inhabit the network in our time
and thrips and so on.
But I want to avoid that.
It's a bit too luxury.
Do you remember a dream you had that you knew wasn't a dream?
I have had a few.
And even the minor ones are fairly profound.
The minor ones were world-shattering.
Returning from those experiences, I knew that I am not merely human
and I am not merely this body.
Not by a long shot.
But the problem is that the network of human minds and language and behavior and jobs and paradigms,
it wears away at memory and insight for most of us.
Unless we have practices in which we can sustain those wings and grow them,
over time the feathers fade and have to be rebuilt, reformed.
Most of our lives, well, you see, here's the problem.
To be a modern human is to be layered for most of us, though each person's unique.
We have something like a public face, which is what we'd show to anyone.
And that's actually the face of the surface of the network of the minds.
That's the face of the membrane of the Cognition.
And we have an aspect that considers what others might think, how they might feel,
how they might gaze upon us, view us, see us.
And sometimes when we're alone, if we become very self-conscious, for example,
we may go over and over in interaction that we feel frightened by.
Usually, for me, it's because I feel my conscience becomes a bit overwrought
and starts thinking about how others might have seen me or how they might have interpreted
what I said differently from my intentions or where I actually made some kind of mistake.
I'm being recorded again.
So there's an aspect of that portion of our humanity that has its own surveillance features.
We can surveil ourselves, so to speak, and think back over our experience, behavior,
the politics of human interactions.
And that can get pretty fired up, that little surveillance aspect under some forms of intoxication or paranoia.
A very uncomfortable feeling.
So we have this public layer, and then there's a social layer, which people we know a little better get to see,
people who there's mutual trust and so on.
And that has a few gradients.
There's the difference between an acquaintance, a friend, and someone we're bonded with, close friend.
So the public, the social, the private, these are things that are reserved,
those of our interior and thought that are reserved for very close relationships,
such as those we might have with lovers, to some degree, with children, our children,
our ancestors, our family.
So that's a private layer.
And underneath that, there's a secret layer.
And the secret layer, some features of it are known to us, but we may not be conscious of them.
They are feelings, inclinations, attractions, and diversions.
Behaviors, perhaps in some of us, that we would never tell others about.
Most of the examples I can think are from childhood, like chewing my toenails off when I was younger.
Instead of clipping them, I would just bite them when I was a little kid.
It seemed perfectly natural to me, but I didn't go around telling people I did it.
Though with close friends, we probably discussed it, hey, do you do this? Do you bite your toenails?
I guess I must have been pretty flexible when I was little.
But there's a secret aspect.
And part of the secret is the human part of us, the human feature of this big bubble of us,
that does and thinks human ways.
But most of the secret isn't stuff we did that we wouldn't talk about or things like that.
Most of the secret is the ways we're more than human.
And actually, we should flip this Matroshka doll around and put the tiniest doll as the public in the center,
a bigger doll as the social, a bigger doll as the private, and a doll the size of the universe as the secret.
When I had that dream when I was little, what was happening in a way is that I was remembering part of the secret aspect of being.
Certainly secret from common humans.
Though there's a large cohort of humans who, if I told that story too, they would think they know what that is,
they know humans do it, they would probably think it was an out-of-body experience,
which technically, according to the language, is probably correct, but, or mostly correct.
But when we name things like this,
okay, I'm going to have to slow down and chase this one a little bit.
There are exceptions, but mostly humans use naming, moderns, English speakers.
They use the naming of objects for a variety of purposes, but one of them is to snip off identity.
That is a car, is it?
It depends on what it's doing.
I can think of 17 different things the car is, but if it's just sitting on the street taking up space, it's not a vehicle,
because it's not, it's a noun, not a verb.
It isn't goes along, goes along, goes along.
It's empty, it's a possession.
There's fuel and technology inside that bubble, and maybe personal belongings.
It's many things, but it isn't car-ing.
Mostly it becomes a problem when it's parked, and this is why we have alarms and paid parking and so on.
My point is that we use naming, in a way, one of the features of how we use it, is we use it to end curiosity,
to end wonder, to end awe, to end inspiration, to end imagination.
And in a way, if the people would say to me, if some people I was with would say,
oh yes, this is familiar to us, we know what it is, that what word?
My hackles would rise up right there, I'd get itchy, because they're going to snip it off and make it into a token.
And then they would say, you had an out-of-body experience.
The goal is similar to my mother's, though I think my mother was concerned with my well-being, not so much with insight.
What they would be trying to do is to capture it with a label.
And while, just like other modern humans, I do this all day long.
I say, oh that is a this.
It's not really true.
And to hold something in one's mind, whatever we hold in our minds, in the hands of our mind, and it has more than two.
Strangely, we become the reflection of that.
And this is why the language of identity can be so devastating to us.
There are a variety of species of gnats here, and a few of them respond very dramatically to music,
so you can actually almost play the flight patterns of the gnats as if they're a musical instrument.
They change their flight patterns and the swarm form differently according to different tones.
So are those then gnats? Are they just gnats? It's just some gnats, Darren.
I can hear public people, even social people, saying that. They're just gnats.
It's much better than a computer simulation. It's living beings together.
Most of what it's useful to know about the situation that was happening, as I sang with the gnats, isn't included in Darren's things to gnats.
It's not in the language. You won't find it there. You might imagine Darren singing or emitting tones.
You might imagine things about the gnats, but what's actually going on there has very little to do with that description.
Because, A, it's relational.
And so it has many dimensions of form and character and movement and development that aren't found in nouns.
So often we use particularly nouns and language in general to silence the imagination and to settle the matter so that effectively we can now ignore it, become very bored, and go watch television or whatever it is we do when we don't know what to do with ourselves.
Don't know who to be with ourselves.
So the people who'd say, oh yeah, you had an out of body experience, while not wrong, all that would do is categorize it and in a sense normalize it.
To remove it from the anomalous, the secret, and put it in the anomalous, the social.
What if we leave it in the secret? What if we decide whatever that was, it isn't something that language can convey.
It doesn't fit in words or categories or any of that.
It comes from a place before them.
And I would argue that most of what's truly beautiful and important, profound about being human, comes from that place.
I have been fascinated with language since I began to acquire it and I love to learn new ways of thinking and speaking and relating with my friends.
And with, you know, to whatever degree it's allowed with the social layer and maybe even the public layer.
Humor tends to work really well in the social and public layer. Everybody likes to laugh, especially humor that doesn't make fun of anyone but maybe makes fun of something we've thought we understood
by talking about it.
In a way language is the first technology. It leads to all the others though. Fire and metalsmithing and printing and computers in our time are pretty profound.
So too are our weapons.
You know, if you surveyed living planets that had what we think of as intelligent life because all life is intelligent.
But if you found living planets and we could go visit 10 or 15 of them and see how the APEC's cognitives are doing and what are they up to?
What are they doing there?
And you looked at ours and you found out that they're investing most of their evolutionary momentum in tokens,
objects and particularly two objects, weapons of war and commodities like money, diamonds, gold, et cetera.
If you saw, if you could see 10 or 100 such worlds and particularly if you were able to observe them from a perspective that allowed you to scroll forward and backward in time.
And I would argue that not only is this possible but spacecraft aren't required and you don't need computers to do this.
And that's part of the secret, doll.
Consciousness is not local to the body, just like you probably, I experience it as if it is.
The body's a bit like the inversion of a child holding a balloon except that the whole thing's more than merely alive.
And what's holding the balloon is something so astonishing that so endlessly infinitely astonishing that you'd be better off not making words about that at all and just getting a taste of it.
And if we could observe many living planets and watch them over time but even if we didn't, if we just went at some phase of their development and then came back later and looked again and we saw animals doing what the humans are doing,
we would know immediately that that game leads to dead planets.
And it's probably done so here and it's probably done so even in our layer, the sort of layer of the dimensional layer that we inhabit because I strongly suspect that there are many other layers in which the Earth is there but is a different thing.
Jupiter's there but is a different thing.
In any case, if we watched the planets and we came to this one and we saw what do the humans invest their evolutionary momentum in.
It certainly isn't intelligence, mostly they invest it in war corporations and dead structure.
And for myself, and though I have some perspectives on the question, I have to wonder how could anything possibly go that badly wrong?
Imagine the efforts required to build and sustain the world's military structures, all of it, the whole damn thing.
You could take even one nation.
That amount of effort could accomplish 12 different kinds of miracles if we just stopped trying to kill each other, threaten each other over resources which aren't actually resources.
Most of those things are more like the organs of the planet that we emerge from.
Surely there are planets on which this doesn't happen.
In fact, personally I know there are planets on which this doesn't happen for I've seen them.
But there are planets where the apex cognitive invests its evolutionary momentum
in a way that echoes what all the organisms on the planet are doing together.
There are so many things they're doing and some of them are so astonishing that it's pretty difficult to frame them in language.
I don't want us to name them and then ignore them.
But one of the things they're doing is that they keep living time together in a symphonic hyper structure of trillions of organisms on a world in time space.
And from a really useful perspective there's just one organism here.
Everything here is one organism that takes many forms and so produces the potential for complex unions of organisms by doing this.
And earlier in the recording I used the phrase the original mission.
And there's more than one of them.
In fact, each of us and perhaps each being, each organism on our world brings with it to its incarnation memory.
Memory of before, memory of beyond, memory of the secret doll, memory of infinity.
And as it finds itself condensing into a cat or a tree or the oceans or the moon,
it tries to preserve the urgent and beautiful, the authentic, the holy, the miraculous.
If you wanted to get a glimpse of the secret doll, the secret aspect, there's lots of places on earth you can do this.
And maybe the best one is right where you are right now.
But that can be a little more challenging.
One of the best windows, living windows to the infinite we are and come from is the eyes of our children.
Especially the very young children, their eyes are shining with memory.
Not speech, not description, not maps and models.
The memory of origin, the memory of the beyond of the human, beyond of language.
And those memories are infinitely more powerful than any technology.
But technologies can put an end to them, maybe forever, around here.
There are worlds in which the apex cognitive develops insight and actual intelligence and relational integrity.
And I'll bet on very few of those worlds you would find a profusion of machines.
There are beings intelligent enough that they invent the automobile and decide we're not going to make these ever again.
This will kill everything. We're going to do any other thing than this.
Our actual nature is so astonishing that if we could but glimpse it,
we would leave the realm of language and representation mostly aside and alone.
We'd give it up because even in this moment as I'm walking and speaking,
there are a thousand living timelines, a million, a billion, endless billions of them in me condensing as me right now.
I'm just usually busy and beep, bop, get some lunch, do the thing, write the check, blah, blah, chase the money, read the book.
But I become insensate. I can't feel and remember them.
But every single thing we think and everything we do and our behavior, our communications, they...
Not only do they affect us very deeply, but they affect the entire history of life on this world.
And they affect the entire future of life on this world and beings on this world.
It's so easy to forget that although we're not gods, so to speak,
the scope of our ability is vastly beyond anything we've been told or shown.
The scope of our nature vastly beyond what we think.
And our ancestors and all the beings who've ever lived here, they're counting on us.
They're dreaming of a future for our children and life on this world that is infinitely beautiful and actually human.
And isn't an ugly doll formed of tokens and objects and money, commodities, resources.
They're counting on us to step up and remember the original missions together with each other, for each other, for this planet.
And those missions are more trustworthy and beautiful than anything you can dream up and thought.
They're not religions.
They are ways that are intrinsically virtuous.
They're not virtuous because they match some standard or declaration or law or rule.
They're virtuous because they recall and revivify memory, relation, communion, unity.
Our nature, infinitely rich, impossibly profound, is nothing like what we're thinking.
And it's not much like what we're experiencing because there are whole ranges of emotions we nearly never feel.
A friend of mine wants to attempt to tune a piano, which I think is a job best left to piano tuners.
But since he's bold and intrepid and intends to do it anyway, try it.
I'm going to give him a hand.
But I was thinking today that our nature is like the piano.
It's like the piano and the features of our soul, if you will, for lack of a better word, are like the harp and the strings.
I don't know how many strings there are.
The first two or three registers have two strings and the remaining, so it's 88 keys, the remaining registers have three strings each.
What I didn't know is that the harp of a concert grand is under around 35,000 pounds of pressure from the strings.
I guess the pressure on them is like 160 to 220 pounds each.
But our nature is like those strings.
It's also our nature is like the piano.
Is it still a piano when no one's playing it?
But what happens when someone comes to play?
Then everything transforms.
And I'm trying to remember how to play the piano of my soul in a way that's deep and virtuous and beautiful.
A way not only that I trust a way I know to be exquisite.
Most of our poor pianos are wildly out of tune and everybody's trying to tell us how to tune them up.
NLP, social media, hypnotism, life coaching.
And look, I get it. I'm a regular human too.
But what we really need is a chance to discover the wings that were chained to the ground throughout our development
and free them and experience them without it becoming a cult.
Without it becoming a gang, a religion.
I mean, pretty much everyone would sign up.
And I have some, you know, I've got a few pairs of chain cutters lying around.
I like to snip some of the chains at least off my thinking mind and sometimes off of my soul.
Because I've seen what happens when those wings can flex and come back to life.
I've had a few chances to fly.
My God was it astonishing.
In those moments, liberties beyond anything I'd ever imagined conceived of became real to my experience.
And mostly, there were liberties of adoration and liberties of insight.
There were forms of seeing available to my waking mind that I certainly never believed I could have any experience of.
And all these years later, I'm still reflecting on what I learned and saw and tried in my way to understand
or even to find a way to speak about that was intelligible.
Here.
It's easy to get bogged down in the tiny part of us that lives in the representational layer of human activity.
We've got a lot of gravity.
And there's the comfort which is actually part of the disease.
There's the comfort of thinking we know what is going on.
I don't know why in our culture this is common, but in America circa this year,
a lot of the males, and I won't speak for the females because I'm not one,
they can chime in for themselves if they wish.
But a lot of the males are what I would call opinionaires.
Not much insight, very little intelligence, lots of opinions.
And they tend to like to push each other around with these opinions,
which seems like an even more grave mistake.
And allowed to, they'd push other people too.
It's almost like, well, clearly such males are insecure.
But they might not admit to that.
They seem to think they know what's going on and somehow it's a good thing if they tell others what's going on.
It's almost some kind of an accounting disease if you look at it closely.
They think the way they count is right and what they count is true and how they count it is how everyone else should count it.
But it's a symptom of disorder and disease in our societies.
They naturally produce this problem.
Even our educational systems are pretty grim even where they're good because
they're mostly there to elaborate the narratives and technologies that have become dominant.
And as you can see, somewhere between few and none of those is lifting the water that floats all boats.
That's what the organisms do, left to their own way of being organisms.
They naturally do that all day long.
Just by being bees and trees and whales and badgers and beavers, dolphins and octopuses,
spiders, praying mantises, squirrels.
Just by being alive.
And there's an aspect of us that's just like them. There's our organismal aspect.
Just by being alive, you're actually probably accomplishing 19 miraculous things per second that heal time in the world.
Bring it back together, organize it, structure it in a way that's livable.
But unfortunately, a massive burden that the humans place on the biosphere for the most ridiculous reasons.
Pretty tough to affect that mess directly.
If you pull plastics from the oceans, they'll just produce more plastics.
It's like our species has been captured by something at the level of groups and societies.
That whether or not it's actively malevolent has pretty much the same effect as if it was malignant.
And there might be those various kinds of medicine that will cure that.
If the humans aren't careful, they're going to get some of the dark kind.
Well, they're going to get some of the dark kind anyway, even if they are careful.
Hi.
It's very difficult to be optimistic about the humans or our world in present time.
But you know, when things are very difficult to dire, that's the time when being beautiful together matters most.
That's the time when remembering the original mission to whatever degree we may be able to recover it.
That shines a light that heals us, each other, and the world.
And no matter how dire it gets, mostly as it gets more grim, acts of beauty and intelligence become vastly more valuable if we're counting that way.
And there's some good reasons to count that way.
Walking through a park I used to hang out in back when I was a bit of a hoodlum.
People are playing basketball, shooting hoops anyway.
There's some white cheeks here.
I'm not sure if I remember their name in Blackfoot, but I think it's Opspeany.
Though I'm probably, I doubt my Blackfoot accent is very good.
I love those animals. Very powerful.
You know, sometimes when I'm speaking, I can imagine the critical voices of others.
The public layer.
What do you mean they're powerful? Just geese.
They make eggs where you shoot them, where you try to run them off your land if they're eating all your grass.
Just geese. Shit happens.
And that's what a mind looks like when it collapses completely into representations and believes them.
When I see those beings, I know they are more than merely a people, but they are at least a people.
And they are ancient and profound.
The living histories of their ancestors and their ways of life are alive in them.
And though they don't speak in language, they can speak directly to a human mind.
Just as if they were a person.
And they can speak as a group, or they can speak as individuals.
But most of the humans don't remember the old ways, so they don't remember that minds don't need to make face noises to talk to one another.
And in fact, by the time you're making face noises, something really terrible has been going on for a long time.
And I can hear the public voices saying, what? Are you saying we're intrinsically telepaths?
To which, if I were being honest, I would answer, no, we're not telepaths, we're transcendent.
Most of us is transcendent.
And the stuff we call telepathy is a trivial side product of transcendent.
And that doesn't mean that I experienced that all the time.
But I've experienced it enough to know it's real.
Or maybe more than merely real.
Because usually what we mean by real, well, this is the public voice again, right?
I'm saying what we usually mean by real.
And what that means is that's a tiny subset of whatever might be going on that the humans have agreed about, named, analyzed,
and can now either ignore or directly manipulate with ease, hammer.
Hardness of the cement between my feet, beneath my feet. Real.
But the scope of our nature and situation that is real is very, very modest.
And so if we take the real to essentially, if we see that as equivalent with the true,
then we've snipped off most of the wings on that bird and chained it to a rectangular frame on the wall.
So yeah, we are born telepaths.
We practiced it as infants, mostly our mothers, but sometimes our fathers were sensitive enough to get the picture.
And when we couldn't get them to hear our minds, then we made noises with our mouths.
Because they would always hear the noises with our mouth. Doesn't mean they'd respond, but at least they'd hear it.
Many of our abilities that are hidden from us are more easily recovered in small groups that share a common purpose, interest, and fascination.
If only one other being is with us, our capacities are probably increased a hundredfold if we're together, if we agree.
That agreement opens windows inside us, opens doors inside us.
Let's say in forms of light, awareness, opportunity that are otherwise much more difficult to evoke.
The religious traditions of the world, most of them have been pretty weaponized with fear and so on by now.
But the principles are sensible.
Try not to veer from the pivots of the original missions.
And it's not that you try to do that to avoid punishment.
It's that not doing that is actually painful, harmful.
When I'm virtuous, I'm not virtuous because, A, I'm trying to avoid punishment, or angering a monotheistic God, or angering anything.
It's like swimming or playing on the piano or making these recordings.
I'm trying to find a way that feels like memory.
I'm trying to find out what I'm carrying, what I brought to this birth.
I'm trying to remember the possibilities of our humanity that have long lain dormant under a barrage of criticism, skepticism, opinionaring.
And I think you're trying to.
We belong to a special branch of the humans, though we also belong to the whole dang tree.
But sometimes we choose to come together to remember and see and learn and grow.
And when we're doing that, I trust it.
I trust it more than all the weapons.
I trust it more than all the money.
I trust it more than power.
I trust it more than speech.
Each one of us carries within us the entire history of this world, all the beings and peoples who ever lived here.
And I don't say this so that we will become frightened.
But frankly, even I am ashamed of how poorly in my daily life I'm able to embody this awareness to enact it.
But in making these recordings, I'm making the attempt.
And in listening to them, I trust that you are making it with me for these moments we are together.
And I trust that.
I always thought, though I wasn't conscious of it until I was a bit older, maybe a lot older,
I always thought that the living beings were people.
They were just different people.
It was the ant people and the bee people and the snail people, because I had a backyard.
Frog people, there used to be a lot more of those around.
Toad people, tortoise people, rabbit people, squirrel people, mouse people.
And there are many features of insight that are so useful that you're not in danger of getting it wrong.
Because they bring back living time, living space, living minds.
They bring them back into our experience, unify them.
And finally we're being lifted above that dead structure of representations, cognition, objects, war, opinion, various misbehaviors.
And that, that changes everything.
It changes the meaning of my own history.
It changes who I am, who I can become, what I can sense, see, learn, know, create.
And honestly, in my heart, I want all the people to be free.
I want all the peoples to be free of whatever that thing is that's infected the humans at the group level and at the individual level.
What is that stuff? Where does it come from? Why is it there?
Probably most of it could be understood to originate in a simple polarity.
The difference between fear and adoration.
But not the kind of adoration that comes from being enchanted or asleep.
The kind that comes from memory and recognition.
The kind that comes from our hearts, our souls, our origins, our natures.
Wait!
We often hear stories...
Well, actually, we sometimes hear stories of people being offered wishes.
When I was younger, we used to play various kinds of tabletop role-playing games.
Dungeons and Dragons, Ring Quest, Traveler, Champions, Call of Cthulhu, lots of different games.
And it was a great deal of fun.
But it was fun primarily because we could explore features of ourselves through the characters we invented.
And we could do it together.
But in D&D, there's a spell.
I think it's just called wish, where you get to basically try to frame in language what you want to happen.
And almost everyone, if they get one somehow, they win one.
They use it very poorly. They use it to wish for an object that has power.
And this tends to go badly for lots of reasons.
The first one is it unbalances the game dramatically if they should have such an object.
But the second one is the DM has both a sense of humor and a sense of justice, or something resembling it.
And so, yeah, it tends to have ironic side effects.
There are, though, things we all I think hope for.
And most of us maybe set those down as we get older, or we change them into hopes for our children, or those we love.
But a lot of them are hopes for money and power.
And some of them are hopes for war.
I have wishes, but I'd be mighty careful about stating one, or even...
I mean, one of my wishes is to see better.
To see more clearly, to see from above, to see from beyond into my life and world, rather than from my life and world into something here.
I'm always better off if I have four or five perspectives on something than if I have one, but I was trained to go after the one that's best or the one that's right.
Unfortunately, the mind that evaluates that bestness or rightness is not very insightful and is more concerned with cutting things into parts and arranging them to my satisfaction.
When I would ask my best teacher a question, and I use the pronoun he casually here,
he would show me two or three different perspectives, each one of which delivered incredible insight, and then he would unify them,
which would deliver another shocking wave of insight, and then he would show me three more, or five more, but almost never one.
I don't know what my best teacher was either.
I have various words I can use to refer to it, but I don't know what he was.
All of our question words, we have seven.
What, which, when, where, who, why, and how.
And I think it's playfully humorous, but also important that all of them except one begin with a W,
almost as if you have to cut yourself in half and make two of you to chase any of those questions or answer them.
It's a doubling of the mind, because when we ask what something is, we're not usually asking about its nature.
We're asking about its catalog token.
That is a sparrow. This is a fork, right?
But one of them begins with H, which is the sound of life, that sound.
Exhalation makes a cloud of steam that changes form like the gnats when I was singing to them.
That one is closer to origin than the others by far.
How, how did it come to be?
Is really, I guess, functions are usually associated with what's, what is it doing?
What is the electron doing?
Not so much what is it being, but what is it doing?
But yes, I have wishes, one of them is for better seeing.
And I have the common wishes humans have for health and well-being and relationships and so on.
I also deeply wish to be helpful to relieve others of burdens they needn't carry,
they needn't suffer, and perhaps myself as well.
I hope for insight, I hope for good dreaming.
My real hopes are the old kind.
I hope for the liberation and health and well-being of all the beings.
I hope to remember together the original missions that we came here as honor
and not merely to accomplish, but to surpass.
Thank you for joining me.
I look forward to learning and remembering and seeing together again very soon.
