Hello, everybody.
Welcome.
I have a number of recordings sort of stacked up that I haven't published yet, and I'm looking
forward to that, to publishing them.
And hopefully some of you are looking forward to listening to them.
I've just had an amazing conversation with one of my more precocious, and I may have
the wrong meaning of this word, but what I mean is like, whatever I might mean, the
chances of me effectively encoding it in language are probably pretty slim, and this
is most of the case with language, even when we become extremely cautious about which words
we select and how we imbue them with meaning together.
Language is far too slow to convey meaning well in most cases, right, in cases where
the meaning isn't merely trivial.
Obviously our capacity to communicate effectively in language increases when we are together
and when we have certain kinds of agreements.
Oh goodness, I'm so glad I remembered this.
Okay, so as a male, I don't really care like...
I don't care much about the common ideas orbiting God, yeah, this is all a big problem.
I don't even know if I can continue in this fashion.
Let's see what I can do.
Granting that humans are diverse and also that generalizations are not true of all class
members or category instances of beings, situations, objects and so forth.
I'm often very concerned about generalizations, especially when they are promoted to a universal
status.
But as a male, it has long been my experience and perhaps more so with heterosexual males
or classically heterosexual males, canonically, but a lot of the talking often tends to be
kind of grandstanding.
I can use crude sexual language to characterize this, but I'll resist that urge here and feel
free to try to imagine what the hell I was talking about.
But I noticed, for example, particularly on contexts where the males are not actually
physically together, this problem becomes even worse.
I wrote an essay on Facebook a long time ago in which I talked about something I called...
And this isn't the crude sexual language that I was using earlier, but like dick jousting.
So I saw a lot of males posturing, posing, competing for dominance rather than profundity
or usefulness of content.
And there's certain kinds of agreements that we can make together or fail to make together
that either enhance this problem, exaggerate it or inhibit it.
And I was talking with one of my closer friends yesterday and ordinarily what happens when
we talk.
So imagine a situation where a certain amount of flexibility and autoscopic insight are
required in order to survive.
Let's say in order to swim, the more rigidity, the more heaviness, the less floaty the vehicle
becomes.
And what I said to my friend because I was noticing it and it's happened in a number
of our conversations, one or the other or both of us, and particularly once one partner
in the, you know, once one companion does this, if there's no awareness, the whole thing's
going to collapse into a kind of fencing.
By fencing I mean, you know, with foils, with pointy wire swords.
And this is rarely productive.
So as we were beginning an argument or a debate or discussion, oriented around problems that
I see as mimetic, mean, like psycholinguistic problems and how virtue gets weaponized, particularly
in the cultures of what we might refer to as social justice warriors or wokist branches,
cohorts, tribes, so forth, we were going to discuss this topic, which I'm not much going
to discuss today, I don't think.
I'm also aware that though I have some modest education around such issues, I'm not an expert
and I may have delusions around these matters.
And I'm the kind of guy that prefers to have my delusions dissolved or transformed rather
than cling hopefully to them like a drowning person to a life preserver.
I prefer to learn.
I'm not as interested, although it can change, right, I'm human, but fundamentally I'm not
as interested in being right or correct or anything as I am in seeing better.
So my friend and I had had some arguments around this previously, and one of his positions
was the conservative, the extreme right is really, really dangerous as well, and that's
certainly true, depending on what we mean by the extreme right.
And in order to have a good conversation, the clarification of meanings is important.
What do you mean by such and such?
In a bad conversation, it can become absurd because you can just keep posing that, well,
what do you mean by the, you know, you can keep posing the question to a ridiculous
or uneaseful degree.
So in the discussion, I was pointing out some features of what I think of as wokest ideology
that I mistrust dramatically, that look, they look poisonous to me superficially.
Now the thing that makes this really dangerous in some senses is that, you know, I'm a, in
wokest categorization, I'm a cis, gender, Caucasian, white guy, older middle class white
guy, and thus the inheritor of many privileges, probably not entirely untrue.
And so what that means is I am effectively the bad guy, I'm the bad guy, I start out
being the bad guy.
And so my perspective is on such matters, being that I am not a marginalized person,
so to speak, can be summarily dismissed as bullshit, or, you know, canceled or whatever.
So we talked around these issues, but this is not what I was, what I'm actually interested
in is the smell of this sage plant, oh my goodness, I want some of that on my body.
The oil from living sage plants is what I use the way other guys use aftershave.
I want to rub it all over my face and my hands.
So before my friend, as our discussion was beginning, hi, yesterday, I asked for a point
of order and the point of order was this.
And I have, you know, a redneck friend who would describe himself that way, so.
And when we met I knew we were going to have some, like first of all I knew we were going
to be close friends, I had had dreams, there was dreams before we met and stuff like that.
So I knew we were going to be close friends, or I felt we were, and I also knew that we
were going to have profound ideological conflict.
So I asked if we could have an agreement between us, and he was like, yeah, what is it?
Well he said, I mean, you mean a formal agreement?
I was like, yes.
He was like, well what are you thinking?
And I said, can we agree that whenever we're together and we're talking, we will try to
learn to see better than we have seen previously together, and to help each other to see more
clearly and from a position above or beyond where we are usually inclined to, from which
we are usually inclined to see and or speak.
And he said, well that's what people do, that's what we all do all the time, I said, no it
isn't.
And it's very different, you know, a lot of what guys do is pound the table with the hammer
of their usually poorly educated ideas.
So he agreed, and that helped our relationship a lot, and got us both to entertain perspectives
that otherwise we might have summarily dismissed, or just rode rough shot, you know, rode rough
shot over the top of for the sake of, you know, pulpit pounding.
I see what is true.
I the man can declare what is actually important about topic X, which is one of the most tedious
and boring and oppressive things to be subject to, woe unto the other men, the women, the
children, the living places who are subject to this over human history and particularly
modernity.
It's a constant part of everyday agony.
And it is clear to me that I have been multiply guilty of this problem throughout my life.
And if anywhere particularly, in the one place I would not want for this to be happening,
which is inside my romantic relationships, very much would not want that.
And yet, for most of my young life was both oblivious and puffy with hubris, because I
like to think I'm smart.
And the irony of that position is written in a thousand, you know, fables.
What happens to the person who thinks they're smart?
You'd be much better off thinking you're blind, or thinking you have trouble seeing what other
people can see very clearly, because for most of us who are unusually intelligent or have
some aspects of inflated, inflamed cognition, without someone to carefully guide us, a good
companion, a wingman, a wingperson, we're going to go sideways a lot, and we're going
to crash into things we can't even see, and we're going to hurt ourselves and we'll hurt
others, and even if we are very sensitive and want to do anything other than hurt ourselves
or others, it's a huge problem for all humans, but it affects those of us who are somewhat
inclined to hubris or arrogance or self-aggrandizement.
And in case it's not obvious, look around you.
In American culture particularly, there's a vitally contagious tradition of, yeah, I'm
fucking amazing, and you, right, like, yeah, I'm the best thing that I've ever walked around
on two legs, and it instances itself differently in masculine and feminine cultures, and it
instances itself differently in non-binary cultures, but there is this tendency to parade
to posture, to peacock, which is, I think, a word or a usage of this word that I made
up, but I'm not sure, which is to broadcast one's own fitness for mating, or to broadcast
one's proficiency, one's skillfulness, when it should be blatantly obvious that actually
successful, actually skillful, actually intelligent people, there's no need to wear the bracelet,
right?
You don't need the necklace.
Hi, I'm smart.
How are you?
Not only do you not need it, it's a bunch of wasted energy.
Obviously, the guy who walks around saying, you know, well, you should kiss me.
I'm the best kisser there ever was, or whatever, kind of ridiculous, self-inflating nonsense.
The people who are broadcasting are obviously insecure in some way, or they wouldn't be
broadcasting.
Secure people don't broadcast that way.
They just immediately demonstrate whatever the statements might have otherwise implied
or declared.
If I'm really intelligent, then I'll demonstrate that in our relationship and in conversation
together.
It's not the kind of thing I would say.
If I say I'm intelligent, something is going wrong.
So it can take some of us a long time to learn such lessons.
Particularly if we are more or less isolated, which is relatively common and much more common
over the past, say, eight years or so for humans in general due to a variety of changes
in the fundamental basis of human existence and the existence of life on Earth.
So yesterday, when I was talking with my friend, I just
saw Heron execute from a perch.
I don't know, even trippier.
Wow, that was amazing.
So from a perch about realizing that the Heron is approximately three feet tall and
it's standing on a perch about two feet above the water, I watched it execute a move that
was first typified in language to me by my friend Martin Peters in the 1980s.
Huh, this is really trippy.
A diving dart.
And it pulled what was either probably a bass or a sunfish out of this little reservoir
and then proceeded to figure out how to get it down its throat without the fish escaping,
which it did with great skill.
And one of the things that's interesting is that it's swallowing the fish while it's alive.
And at the moment is almost certainly still alive inside the Heron.
One imagines that the fish might have been able to see through the surface of the water
such that the form of the Heron appeared on the other side of the surface.
Mysterious and perhaps compelling, visually compelling, right?
It's very common that predators fascinate their prey and have developed, we think, through evolution.
Secondary and tertiary faces.
So for example, I noticed that the Heron, its long pointy head, which has a little crown
of two long thin feathers, but on the body of the bird there are two black marks in the
front that may be what in biology is called alsolada, meaning eye spots.
When you look at the face of a rattlesnake, you will see three distinct faces.
There is a face that looks like a mouse, which is one of its prey.
There is a face that looks like a turtle. These are different sizes.
And then there is a face that looks like, that is the actual face of the rattlesnake.
There may be more, but what I'm looking at here, if you were to see from the water up toward the bird standing above you,
what you would see is something that looks like a much larger face than the bird actually has.
The bird's face is incredibly small because it's long and thin.
It's pointy.
And so it's obvious that these eye spots on the front of the bird's torso would contribute to a vision from beneath it.
That looks like a much larger face.
And the bird is hunting again, so I'm watching what I'm talking about.
It's really quite profound. I did not realize this about the herons until just now.
I've watched them many, many times. Unless you see them from a specific angle,
you will not see the eye spots on the wing elbows that face the water when the bird is hunting downward,
which is mostly hunting like downward thrusting spear.
And I would suspect that what I saw in the rattlesnake faces is probably a principle thoroughly common throughout nature.
It's very obvious in animals that have blatant eye spots such as butterflies and gone in flower mantises,
pseudocreabotra, ocelotta. Ocelotta means eye spot, which comes from the word we used to name the ocelot as well.
So to return to my previous topic, yesterday I was sitting with my friend in my room
and we were getting a little vociferous. We were excitedly beginning to argue and I could feel my mind turning to rock.
I could feel I'm getting dumber. The louder and more insistently we talk the dumber I'm getting.
So I paused in our discussion and I said, you know, this is an appeal, I'm appealing to you,
that we make an agreement because if we don't have an agreement like this, I can't speak for you,
but my mind, like I want to float and I want to see from a better perspective than I've seen before,
but if we don't have this agreement, my mind, like the boat that we are forming together,
that we will travel on the surface of the waters of intelligence and insight together,
that boat is really important to me and I can feel right now that my mind is becoming like an anvil.
That old blacksmith's tool, they bang metal on top of and it's super heavy.
You drop it in the water, it can drag a whole boat down with it.
So I was like, yeah, if we don't...
If we don't agree together to carefully preserve...
There's a sophisticated word I'm looking for that I can't find.
If we don't carefully preserve the floatability, some of you will know the word that I'm looking for instead,
it means a similar thing to the very clumsy thing I just said.
If we don't carefully preserve that, my brain is going to turn into an anvil
and I'm going to just sit here not seeing better, not getting smarter,
but I'll just sort of make a bunch of declarations about what I think is the problem or the case
in the topic that we're chasing together.
I wonder if that guy's an actual soldier because he looks like he could take me apart with two of his fingers.
So I spoke up and I said, look, we've got to preserve the boat.
We're losing our vessel right now and I'm not claiming it's your fault.
I'm just saying if we don't have an orienting agreement together,
that we're going to go for better flotation, higher ground, more insight,
more understanding than we've had before, I'm sinking here.
I'm falling into that rigid, hubristic, I know what the problem is,
I know what's going on here, blah, blah, blah, blah.
And I am just as subject to it as anyone else.
Most of what qualifies as insight in my awareness is insight about myself,
my own experience, my own failings, my own conflicts,
and the places where I lost the most important two forces came together
and both of them lost and I lost more than either of them.
And the whole dang thing was going on inside me, right?
It was all...
And it's not that I'm narcissistically self-fascinated,
rather it's that I spend a lot of time by myself and I'm relatively isolated.
Undesirably, I'm quite gregarious and like other humans, particularly bright and creative ones.
And even more so groups of them.
So I just spoke up and said, look, now this boat is sinking right now.
Please, could we just pay attention to the word that means tendency to float better?
And can we notice when we're starting to sink into rigid declaration of previously held positions
or ideological and or cultural resentments and so forth, right?
The low-hanging fruit of conversational insight.
And often when a group of men are together in my experience
and there isn't an orienting agreement like this,
it's a race to the bottom, right?
Can we go for lower-hanging fruit?
Can we get even dumber than dumb?
Hey, have me that whiskey.
Is there a hammer there? Let me bang that on my head a bit and then I'll speak.
And louder and louder as the night proceeds, right?
So I was very grateful to have this orienting agreement.
And it's one of the agreements that orients my spoken word recordings.
I'm trying to see better imagining that you and I and all of those who listen are together
and imagining that all the listeners or most of them anyway are motivated by beauty and insight
and intelligence and learning and growth.
And I always have a bit of a background concern which is natural in any kind of surveillance state.
And we certainly live in one now that predators are listening.
So it's something I'm also aware of.
It's quite dangerous to present complex information about our interiority,
concern, life circumstances and so forth in public.
There are two primary dangers.
The first is general to be like your society, your culture, corporations, the government, so forth.
And the second is personal.
These are people who are either obsessed with you and there's all kinds of different obsessions
or they have some other reason to be motivated to do one harm.
So I have some awareness of all of these things when I make my recordings.
But I like to think that I have a similar orienting agreement, right?
Let's go for an array of better perspectives if we can and let's not dwell too fiercely on previously established pinnacles.
There is the peculiar issue in English where higher equals better.
Above is superior to below and so forth.
In our actual existence this is not really the case.
But when we are using metaphors of seeing to equate with progress or development or learning,
there are really profound things that can be seen.
I mean, in fact, the phrase, to understand was once shown to me as a very powerful act of both self-humbling and...
It's all good.
So one of my teachers showed me that if you really want to see and attend another being clearly,
make them very big in your seeing.
If you can, look up to them from below rather than down on them from above.
Now, the teacher that was teaching me may have been trying to teach me something peculiar to Darren.
But I suspect that it's not merely peculiar to Darren.
So understanding means to become very small before the subject of one's relation or inquiry or seeing
and to see from this very small position beneath them, looking up toward them.
Make of this what you find useful.
So if we want to learn and grow together, a useful orienting agreement is very powerful.
And often humans presume such agreements are already in place.
That doesn't work as well and often fails completely.
An example of one feature of such an agreement is in the intellectual dark web,
the idea of steel manning the argument of another, strengthen their argument,
make their argument your argument and elaborate and emphasize features of it they themselves probably missed.
Become the proponent of the argument of your opponent long before attempting to oppose it or demonstrate its failings.
This is a very powerful agreement.
Steel man the argument of the other.
And of course, not all conversations are arguments.
But when we start talking about what are the characters, qualities, failings, efficiencies, and so forth,
the structure of mutual interlocution.
And I don't know the origins of the word location, but I strongly suspect it relates to speaking.
And also perhaps authorization.
And that's the actual direction that I intended to go.
If we place authority outside of persons and outside of statues,
outside even perhaps of gods, and particularly of representations of gods,
which must be one of the most ironic things humans ever did was to represent the divine,
why there are prohibitions against this, against the making of images in Muslim culture, in Islam.
Very powerful and useful prohibition should be carefully explored.
Why?
Why would we not want to make images?
What the Muslim people do often instead is they make incredibly beautiful geometries.
This is also very, very profound and worth careful study.
We don't make images, but we do make geometric patterns.
So I was thinking today, and I've diverged from my intention as I often do, rather dramatically,
but I was thinking today about the problems in authorization, in thought, language, culture.
That's strangely misnamed irony that we refer to as civilization.
It's not clear if there were ever intelligent human civilizations.
In modernity it seems very uncommon, not completely missing.
There are degrees of relatively intelligent cooperatives where the humans actually work together for each other,
and perhaps all beings, with relatively minimal impact on the history and future of life on Earth,
the environment, the ecologies, and so forth, relatively minimal.
It's pretty tough to do anything presently that doesn't offload damage onto the anciently conserved ecologies as human beings.
What I was thinking about earlier was the crucial centrality of authorization in human thought and experience.
Consider the problem, if you will, of what to do with yourself.
Now, for most of human history, this problem existed only for the wealthy, if even for them,
only for the incredibly powerful, who were partly liberated in the sense that they may have experienced what we refer to as leisure time.
Time free of obligation.
I think, honestly, and in order to form sentences, I am doing an authorization dance in my own mind right now.
I think the idea of leisure time is intrinsically self-conflicted.
Because in order to have it, it means you must have departed relation and become an individual.
So you're always really...
Which for a pot animal, like I suspect we are, and look, we are all different kinds of animals because not all humans,
there are humans that certainly prosper dramatically, or even prefer isolation.
But it's not clear to me that they would do so if the context was authentically cooperative, nurturing, encouraging, empowering, and so forth.
Perhaps like day and night, they might occasionally enjoy what we think of as time alone.
Just that phrase by itself is pretty bizarre, because if time is by itself, boy, there is a strange prodigy.
There's an anomaly there. Time alone.
But what is meant by this is usually...
Okay, now I know that bird. I saw that bird before, and I wondered if it is referred to as a stork.
But now I remember that it is usually referred to in English as a night heron.
And I've seen them around lately.
You can see that I was just using authorization. What is the correct term? Okay, correct according to what?
Obviously, in my mind, I am structuring my consciousness linguistically, as if there is, quote, authorized nomenclature that points at that physical organism.
Or if I am less aware of the difference between life and objects in a more para-left-hemispheric dominant way, then I want to know what is that thing called?
And I will separate it out from the rest of the environment and see it as distinct.
So you can see that in structuring my consciousness, even to myself, even if you were not here, if I was not recording, I would still try to understand what do the English-speaking humans use to refer to that bird.
And I now remember, when I saw it before, I didn't. I remember that it is referred to as a night heron.
And that suggests that it's a nocturnal hunter, which I had to use an authorization schema to determine as well.
So what I'm trying to get you to see here, okay, yeah, thankfully I've managed to wander back into the vicinity of the topic that originally fascinated me, which is this.
Humans may posture about local authorization, right, authorizing myself, I'm self-authorizing and so forth, and men are more inclined to do this than others.
But primarily, our species, the strange features of our cognition, mysterious features, orient us profoundly and often invisibly to an incredible sensitivity to extrinsic authorization.
And language is evidence of this, in part because we rarely, especially as adults, we rarely neologize.
We don't bend the tool of language to our purposes. Rather, we enact the pre-bent forms inherited from others and from culture and so on.
And those forms trap us in many ways, as has been remarked by insightful people throughout history.
Our tools use us. Language shapes our mind to its structures, suppositions, functions, derivations, distinctions.
Someone was saying, I think it was some gentleman talking about the alchemy of happiness, which I think is a chapter from an enormous book by Ibn Arabi.
They were saying something like, the one who speaks inflicts a wound. They were talking about the one who heals all wounds.
And they were talking about specific features of Arabic that associate speaking and wounding.
This is very important to pay attention to. We will almost never hear anything like this from our culture, which proudly wears the stigma of many linguistic injurers.
When we think of writers in English, we use the word author.
And similarly, those to whom we are subject are called authorities.
And when we have been given permission, or, please help me find this word I've been looking for for five years, similar to a mandate.
When we are given permission or position to enact or enforce a mandate, then we ourselves are authorized in the sense of a policeman.
Now one of the most staggering things to do is to deconstruct, and I encourage you to do this, I'll get you started, deconstruct the military ranks in English linguistically.
Because it's certainly not fucking clear what a sergeant is, and isn't it interesting that the lowest rank is called private.
And I want you to explore the origins of each of the rank names, but particularly notice the one that I'll unpack a little bit for you, Lieutenant.
In English, this word has few obvious progenitor phonemes, but hidden in the structure of the word is something blatant.
A Lieutenant is the one who occupies the authorized position in lieu of the one who is actually authorized and conveys authorization to those under its command.
And if you want to see into the truly science fictiony, bizarre underpinnings of authorization in human cultures and consciousness, look at the military, you'll get a lot of trippy stuff there.
Okay.
In most religions, authorization stems like formally in the structured aspect
from a system of initiations and the conveyances of authority from those already authorized.
So for example, the Pope in Catholicism, but in many older religions, authorization arises from a kind of profound submission.
When the topic of God arises, humans are inclined, especially humans who are not particularly...
profound adorational servitude of the divine is one of the sources of authorization. So that's very strange. That means that from one perspective, the slave is authorized, the master is not.
And this is language you will hear commonly. It sounds very strange to Western ears, usually, but you'll hear this very commonly in mystical Islam and Sufism.
Now, both are authorized, actually, and neither one is, you know, but the slave has the better position. And it doesn't necessarily mean that they're enslaved by other humans, though it could, in some cases.
For Western minds, this seems like the complete inversion of how we would usually think. The master is at liberty, the slave is constrained, viciously constrained in many cases.
Authorization. So you can see that if we have a thought or a belief, or if we have an objection to any statement, concept, idea, model, evaluation, measurement, particularly,
measuring and authorization are tightly linked in the history of human cognition. The one who measures correctly must be divinely inspired, guided, or authorized.
We even call lords and kings and queens, right, we call them rulers. And that's not just because they make the rules, it's because they measure.
You will see them depicted with implements of measurement, rods and rings and so on.
Rods and rings are what you use to measure, and if you have a rod and a ring, your measuring will be superior to that of any who have only one of them.
They're probably, you can imagine the situation historically in the development of our species. Let's say 20,000 years ago, in a place where there was something that resembled cities.
And beings from the sky or from beyond the sky come, they themselves select or forge a being that can directly communicate with humans, either mind to mind or in their language, or both, but probably the former.
It's a very strange shirt, or logo, it says unmarked limit, and there's a face of a panda, and there's some olive branches, it seems, beneath it.
Certainly.
And it says since 1975.
By the way, in case it's not obvious, the whole branding thing exists in modern society because it captures authorization.
In our time, corporations, governments, and tribes take the place of kings and gods, kings, queens and gods.
And so, you know, the just do it slogan, and other slogans.
By the way, notice about just the structure of that phrase, right, just do it, essentially is telling you that you are authorized to just do it.
In a sense, it's saying, recognize local authorization for anything you want, anything, just do it.
You don't have to think, you don't have to refer to authority.
If it arises, then just go ahead, complete permission, absolute permission, which is sort of the opposite of authorization.
Hello.
Thank you, come on in.
Thanks.
By the way, just there, I had to show my identification to those who determine who is authorized to enter the botanical gardens by virtue of their, who is authorized to enter by virtue of where they live,
by virtue of geography, who must pay instead because they are not a San Francisco resident.
So any of those people who, all people who aren't residents and aren't children under 12 must pay.
And then also those who should be denied access.
So gatekeepers are lieutenants in this sense.
They serve a central authorizer who is often depicted in religion and consciousness as a scrutinizer.
I think there's a Frank Zappa album in which the central scrutinizer plays a prominent role, which it also does in various forms of psychosis, schizophrenia, presuming that such labels refer to meaningful situations in the consciousness of human beings, which I suppose they both do and don't.
Also in consciousness, the coherence of consciousness often depends on a reliable structure of authorization and scrutiny, authorization and oversight.
And I want to contrast that oversight with the underside I was suggesting earlier associated with the word understanding, literally to stand beneath, to support, to lift up, to lift above me.
And in any actual relationship, the best kind of thing and the thing that I was asking that we could have an agreement about with my friend in our conversation yesterday was,
if you will lift me up above where you're at, I will in turn lift you to a position above where you lifted me,
and then we may proceed together to continue to enact such a process, I sometimes call this leap the leapfrog game.
I will lift you above my current position, from there you can help me first to that position and then return the favor, lift me above.
And this again is presuming that up is good, up equals insight, various other similar metaphoric associations.
Thank you.
I have reacquired my raven escort for the moment. It's one of my favorite things to acquire actually. I'm sure other humans think it peculiar.
Throughout the history that we know of and we've been taught, obviously we have been taught
staggering falsehoods about distant history, and of course also lots of lies about recent history.
Because as we know, history is often written by those who prevail in whatever conflicts ensued, and the colonizing, as I've mentioned many times before,
I believe that the colonizing humans were themselves colonized, and so we're carrying the structure of the disease they would hand off to their future generations
and export catastrophically around the world. And it's not surprising that colonizing peoples would have stories about apocalypse because they will make that shit happen.
They will bring the apocalypse, whether God intended it or not. But you can see throughout history the humans celebrating the awareness of beings beyond them.
And probably monotheism was uncommon in human history prior to maybe, who knows, oh, yep, that's the problem, isn't it?
Earlier I saw Bumblebee's mating and announced to my friend that it's very dangerous and
troublesome, and the female that I saw who was being mated with is dead because she could not move off the pavement where multiple males were having at her.
Historically, whether or not the monotheism thing, that's probably a very recent development. It's conceivable that it was part of human cognition very long ago, but I think it unlikely.
Because long ago what seems to have been much more clear was a structure that resembles our own hand, where you have different members for different features, and the combination of the members represents an uptick in authorization rather than the ex-cathedra declarations of a single member.
You can try to imagine the incredible failure that you would experience of any attempt to enact the powers of your hand if you only had access to the tip of your pinky, and the rest of it was just incoherently doing whatever the hell it was doing.
Your hand, as unimaginably profound structurally as it is, would be nearly useless for most of what you might attempt to enact with it.
It is the combinatorial agreement among the members that produces transcendental ability, transcendental seeing, transcendental understanding.
I can imagine a scene a long time ago where non-human intelligences forge locustius, right? They're at the speaker.
And they then speak to the humans, instructing and empowering them, right?
Do this and we will extend the aura of our intelligence, skillfulness, protections, and perhaps transcendent, transcendental anatomies.
We will extend them into your people, and thus, if something like this was going on, this would naturally result in our peculiar relationship with extrinsic authority and authorization, what the humans often refer to as hierarchy.
When we hear stories about wolves, there are words like alpha, and there may be some correlation with what's actually going on as wolves, but also probably not, because whatever's going on doesn't necessarily match up with the humans.
The ideas of hierarchy, whatever's going on in nature, both resembles and, at the same time, diverges from the human ideas of hierarchy.
Okay.
If our cognitive development was influenced by or occurred in concert with non-human intelligences that are not merely from terrestrial nature, though the intelligences that are within terrestrial nature
certainly qualify as transcendental and profound and divine or holy even.
But if non-human intelligences from beyond the earth, either from time-space or beyond time-space, whatever, progenerates the foundations that become time-space, then this would explain a lot about our very peculiar situation.
The science fiction author David Brinn remarked on this in his books about the concept of uplift, that every intelligent species, in the future where there's interstellar travel and so forth,
and the humans find out that there are many other intelligent, quote-unquote, like representationally intelligent species, right? Creatures from other planets is what is meant here.
The humans discover this, but they also discover something weird that each of those, each of the intelligent species had a known uplift parent, meaning that some other species specifically took them under its wing, and usually this was a situation in which there was a debt incurred.
Such that the species that is uplifted would then serve the progenitor, the mind progenitor species for some given period of time, which is kind of a weird idea.
But in his uplift books, the humans could not find their uplift progenitor. It was unknown who lifted the humans to representational cognition.
And hovering in the background is a sort of fairy-like, hominid-like species called the Thimbrimi, who have antenna, who it's fairly clear either were the uplift parents of the humans or know the answer to the riddle.
This is a very interesting speculation, and Bryn falls down in some places as an author, particularly he's not good at wrapping things up, but he's brilliant at posing a situational, brilliant situational construct.
And this particular construct is useful.
What is bothering me? Something stuck in my craw here. Let's see what's going on. Of course humans don't have a craw.
From everything I have seen of our species and my attempts to understand the development of our minds, the likely historical situations and transformations that appear likely to lead to the development of our minds.
It's a very strange situation we find ourselves in as human beings in relation to group identity, personal identity, and so forth.
And specifically our deeply weird relationship with the often conflicting necessities of authorization and consciousness and relationship.
We seem incomplete. We seem very clearly, I am profoundly suspicious, that we are half-creatures as regards our, you know, as animals we're not well suited to survive in environments.
We're well suited to survive in shelters. We don't have the weapons that other animals have, claws and teeth and incredible strength of jaw and so forth that we can inflict a pretty good bite.
We don't have fur. We don't swim well. The Blackfoot story of when the humans first came and the animals got together and the beaver strongly suggested that the humans not just wipe us out.
Excuse me, that the animals not just wipe us out. The beavers strongly suggested that the animals not just wipe us out because they were very upset with what the humans were doing at one particular human, a trapper, what he was doing.
He had kidnapped the favorite grandson of sort of the beaver king and they wanted him to return that child to them.
And the beaver suggested, the animals said, you know, the humans have nothing. What can they do? They can't fly away. They can't swim very good. They can't run very good. They don't dig under the ground.
They have no fur, no claws, no scales, no shells, no wings, no tentacles, no stingers, their little globs of meat. Why should we let them lord it over us and dominate us and so forth?
And the beaver's suggestion was that they, if I understand it correctly and I probably don't because it's not a rational idea, the beaver's suggestion was that they bring the humans into the family of the animals very intentionally by making them an offering from each of the animal peoples,
making the humans an offering that would confer one of their sort of sacred abilities on the human beings.
But my point here is that something very weird is going on in and as our species and it's obviously very dangerous to itself. It is not sustainable. It's anti-sustainable.
And it's also extremely dangerous to all other forms of life and it should be blatantly obvious that that also means it's very dangerous to anything that has mind-like experience.
The humans are ironically bizarre. It's as if the most important features of our nature are hidden somewhere or missing from us and the religious people will say, yes, it's in God.
They're not entirely wrong, but it looks to me like our species developed with another or an array of other intelligences and yes, these certainly were the intelligences of nature, but it looks to me like they were not merely the intelligences of nature.
There is something about the sky as an ocean and the understanding of earth as an island and the understanding of advanced others who either come from the ocean or they come from other islands in the ocean
or are the spirit of the ocean itself or are the intelligences that compose structure within time space or the transcendences.
So it looks like we're missing something fundamental and we're desperately trying to make up for that by making things like corporations and artificial intelligence and so forth.
Whatever we do, apparently the humans don't want to get smarter together. We want to make objects more intelligent. That's a very fucking strange motivation.
Anyone who sees this clearly should have infinite suspicion about something like this.
It's a suicidal and omnicidal orientation. It makes no sense unless we're attempting to prosthetically replicate something fundamentally familiar to our interiority from our prehistory, right, like the developmental history of human brains, minds, cognition, bodies and so forth.
Yeah, there's just such a variety of problems here.
Which anyone who sits down to just think carefully for a few moments will immediately get their teeth into.
Why are the humans this dissociatively confused? Why are they this dangerous to themselves and anything that moves and much of what doesn't?
Why are they trying to make machines? Why are they trying to become the servants of god-like machines?
No living creature that had any sense of value for organisms would embark on a mission that resembles this in any way at all. They would go in every other possible direction first.
And these topics
are fundamental. These are the foundational puzzles of our nature.
It is possible that when we are very small, we experience contact with these originary intelligences or transcendences, and that as we get older and begin to undergo the processes of in-languaging and in-culturation,
the cognitive organs that would ordinarily connect us with such progenitors or companion intelligences are amputated for the sake of producing representational cognition, which isolates us.
And then the expectation of the companion intelligences, so to speak, is transferred to the parents, who themselves are probably similarly bereft and may have religious leanings or so forth, but have no idea that anything like an actual companion intelligence exists.
I can't help but feel that our species looks a lot to me like it resembles a primary symbiont that is missing its parent symbiont.
Like an obligate secondary symbiont that's missing the primary symbiont, to rephrase what I said previously.
So, I should have some really good... I mean, imagine bees are ants that no longer produce queens. This would be one example.
Utterly confused, everywhere in their activity attempting to recreate the resemblance of a queen-like thing and failing.
Another example would be, you know, a remora is a fish that attaches itself to a shark.
And I'm not meaning to pose the primary intelligences or transcendences that I think we came up with as shark-like, though some of them could be.
But you can imagine the problem of remoras in a world that's not only where there are no more sharks or whales or anything.
There are no more large fish at all, right?
Would they survive like what would they do? What would their existence be about?
If they developed hand-like prostheses, you might imagine them making everywhere images of sharks and large fish, whales, manta rays, so forth.
That they evolved in intimate, direct bio-relation with.
It doesn't make sense for animals to make representations of things they have no memory of, and our species keeps doing this.
Cars are representations of something we remember. Motorcycles, bicycles, guns, computers, all these things.
They are abstract. They're dead inside representations.
And we serve them while pretending to be served by them.
This is a mystery worth chasing. This is one of the foundational questions of being human.
What the hell is wrong with our species? The answer is like 780 things, most of which we have no superficial clue about.
So this is a mystery I will continue to chase, and I am grateful for your presence with me in quest.
If you have any ideas or thoughts or anything, by all means, please share them with me in the comments.
Take a moment to like, share, or subscribe if you enjoy these long-form walk and talks.
I look forward to learning and discovering new perspectives and keeping our little boats floating rather than sinking together for each other in the future.
Thank you for joining me. May your ways of life and experiences be nourishing, regenerative, pro-generative, and beautiful. Bye-bye for now.
