So, do me the favor of saying your name so that I don't mispronounce it.
Yep, Bala Pillay.
Yes, and I am Darren Stevenson, so we are here in a conversation together that I wanted
to record because it was becoming, as I expected it to, very interesting.
Bala had been discussing something in ideas from a specific person whose name you can
say.
Actually, maybe you could just go over briefly.
Okay, I'll do that.
What I was talking about is the notion of network state, as in any TWORK, second word
state, S-T-A-T-E, network state.
Chapp called Balaji Srimivasan, quite a known personality online, used to be CTO of Coin
based, but he's not just a crypto guy, he happens to know crypto, very well read, history,
background, people.
You could summarize him as a pro-anarchy guy who doesn't take limits of government and
all that as limits.
What the network state means is you can form enough of the ethos and the common, call it
the commonwealth of a group of people online, and then later, enough of the cohorts could
have agreed to where they want to stay and live in a place where they get along.
Where they're physically approximate so that they can collaborate in each other's life
development.
This is much more, it's not impossible to do at a distance, but it's much more difficult.
There are more challenges.
It's a different space of challenge for those who are not proximal, but you said something
that I thought was hilarious, you were like, I'm brilliant, go ahead, you were talking
about somebody buying a house.
The background word is this, I've gone through all those states, what do I mean by all those
states, living, grew up in a semi-rural village where everybody knew everybody and it's a
tropical place so that you're never worried about money because it seemed like food was
available all over the place and you could go and sleep in anybody's house, so what's
your problem?
And then, but my parents have moved from India to Malaysia, my father had gone through the
struggles of life in India and he was continuing it in Malaysia and he was driven to have lots
more money under the pillow, he was just flown into being a stingy guy who saves and saves
and saves and for good reason because of his background, many people after that and the
British rule in India, there were tough times, so in Malaysia it's easier, but he didn't
realise that he was there, so he went on a spree of, so what he would do is buy one property
upon property upon property and including our house itself, what we call the house that
family house, his only concern was what's the replacement, if you buy this house, what's
the replacement value, if I were to sell it, how much money would I get, it didn't care
about much anything else and then me has to pay for that because it has completely broken
up the family, as compared to, now my adopted village Darren, it's a village in Indonesia,
in Java, it's a zero crime village, similar to the kind of village my father was born
in, they didn't live there on age 18 and there the values fit with the village, the people
despite the rest of the world not wanting to have anything to do with zero crime villagers
because it's got consequences, for example, people won't be fronting wealth because they
won't be much wealth, it will be culturally communist, right, but you will not worry about
old age and children being taken care of because the people love to take care of other people,
yes, they are living in a traditional context where everyone takes care, not every single
person, but most of the people take care of each other and they understand, so this changes their
role as a human being, right, transforms their role as a human being from, I am here for me and
mine, or just I am here for me, to, we are here together, for each other, yeah, if you don't
have that, I will argue, if you don't have, we are here together for each other, you don't have
humans yet, you have something weird, it's not human, that's it and I want to stamp it even further,
yeah, by all means, yeah, I mean, I've grown up in like fighting a lot of people, you know,
probably post, you know, post university, even in university didn't occur to me,
many, maybe particularly from the 90s onwards, okay, basically I'm into unconditional love,
that, and I, I'm with again and again, why are you being, I mean, the thing that I find hilarious
about what you said is that linguistically it's backwards, it's not that you're into
unconditional love, it's that you didn't defect from it, all right, like that's the natural position
for human beings, you simply didn't defect, right, in my view, but please continue, I'm with you, yeah,
so exactly because my mother and my, you know, grew up in such a place, so she didn't know anything,
anything else and she went to great lengths, you know, consequences and, but leave all of those
cause, you know, talking to you, one of the greatest things about talking to you Darren is,
you can talk about things that are, you might have, along life taught its age, unconventional,
so kind of like censor that a bit, you know, no, you can do whatever you want, so I love it, you know,
okay, yes, so I loved, you know, my mother was the epitome of unconditional love and I love that,
beautiful, you know, it didn't occur full on to me at that time, right, it occurred enough,
but because it occurred enough as in, you know, when the world became being difficult, there's
one person that you could go to who has got time, patience for you, she'll listen and she won't,
you know, abruptly stop you halfway or say that, that's a silly idea, she will take it that it's
possible that her child may know something that she doesn't, you know, right, and that was so
special, right, in this kind of like cruel world, right, that he has one person that's
extremely beautiful, yes, you know, so I wanted to continue that and I was not going to stop,
agree with anybody who said it's impossible, you know, you can't, and later in life,
of late, I realized, no, they, many who say it's impossible are only saying it because
their, our narrative has so much become zero or 100 binary, it's like, if something is not
exact, you know, it's like, can you guarantee me that 100%, you know, that person who is
in your village, you can have unconditional love, well, the real answer is why do you even,
why can't it be fuzzy at the edges? Say again, even when we do math or graphs,
you know, we cut off the extremes, and that's good enough, if you can manage it 90%, but,
you know, they are outliers, but you don't need to like spend your whole lifetime passing the last
two percent, you know. Okay, you've touched on something, wait, slow down, you've touched on
something I want to highlight, please nurture your line of thought and where you are going so
that you can hold on to it for a second. But I want to say something, the zero 100 thing, so
as children, eventually, we attempt things that are at least initially, they are impossible.
Okay. It is initially impossible for you to stand up. It is initially impossible for you to take a
step. It is initially impossible for you to jump, or run, or walk, or speak, or swim, or hold your
breath underwater, or ride a bicycle, or write language. All of these things start out initially
impossible. And if we evaluate them on the basis that is usually used in our cultures,
pretty much nothing is possible, because you can't, the only things that are possible are
things where you go from zero to 100 in one move. In a single move. Never happened.
So we do have this mindset. And I was reading, I just want to share something from a book called
The Dawn of Everything that I was reading last night. We're talking about
our views of history being wrong. And we basically have two views. It was wonderful.
We all took care of each other. And then we fell from that. Now it's every man for himself.
And there's no way to change it. The best you can hope for is slight adjustments to the tyrannical
nonsense of human society. And I say this. As long ago as 1936, the prehistorian V. Gordon
Child wrote a book called Man Makes Himself. Apart from the sexist language, this is the spirit we
wish to invoke. We are projects of collective self creation. What if we approached human history that
way? What if we treat people from the beginning as imaginative, intelligent, playful creatures who
deserve to be understood as such? What if instead of telling a story about how our species fell from
some idyllic state of equality, we ask how we came to be trapped in such tight conceptual shackles
that we no longer even imagine the possibility of reinventing our societies. They say ourselves,
but what they mean is our societies. We can't imagine it because it seems like it's like a task
like eating the moon or drinking the ocean. So no one imagines that it's only possible.
It's necessary. It's urgent. The entire history and future of life on this planet may depend on the
single, on this single pivot, right? Can humans form intelligent aware collectives with and for
each other and with and for the history and future of life on this planet? Now, of course, we can on
the small scale. We can do it immediately, right? We can do it. You and I are not going to have any
problem doing that right here, right now. We'll be doing that together, right? So it's immediately,
if you just shrink the scale from everything to something, you can do it right now with any few
people who are motivated and sincere. Please continue. Right on, right on. Excellent.
You know, so, so good to hear. So good to hear. And you know,
much of it is self, it's like self-fulfilling prophecy of self-created meaning.
One of my biggest answer backs has worked, right, against this notion is against this notion of
it can't be done. You know, it's impossible. This whole hopelessness is, you know, guys,
if we were living, you know, before the first village, right? And we would never, the first
village would never have happened. You know, like often, I'll see in online forums, Jared,
the ones that use quite a lot in this, the one, the P2P Foundation, right? Quite a lot of people
from around the world. And often the people are so good at nitpicking, right? Right. And I'm like,
by the way, these are people who probably never accomplish anything other than nitpicking, but
go ahead. Yeah, yeah. They're professional nitpickers, right? What do you do for a living? I
sit around on a computer screen and pick nits. So I'm like saying, hey, look, right?
You just imagine, you know, if our ancestors, very little, they made the first village happen.
If they could not get along, right? If they were egotistical, the first village would not have
happened. In all likelihood, it would have taken many attempts for the first village to
happen, you know, to stay and be maintained, continue as a first village. But we know that it
happened. And then it went on to become a small town and those languages. So if those people
can kind of hold their negativity, their pessimism down a bit, right? To let the blossoming,
as the blossoming they see in nature, right, despite all the earthquakes and whatever negative,
you know, there may be, there still is, you know, flowering and blooming and, you know,
joy and aesthetics in nature, right? Why can't we look at the good and ignore the bad,
right? Unless the bad totally, you know, cannot be, right? If the house catches on fire, we'll get
some water. Yeah, right? Yeah, you know, but it's not a matter of, okay, it's not a matter of this.
It's a matter, I think, and by all means, correct me if you see it differently. It's a matter of
the, okay, look, we got two different kinds of options, right? You can put humans together,
you can get them to agree to come together as a group, let's say a small group, seven people, okay?
And you can say again. I said entirely, I mean, nobody would argue against that.
If you said seven people, you know, like, yeah, suddenly they have to, right?
You can get seven people together and tell them either one of two things, okay?
Either you're just going to learn how to get along and help each other
and be for each other and be together as one unit as well as being individuals.
You're either going to learn how to do that, or we're going to give you some principles.
But the fundamental problem is that there has to be a catalyst, right? There has to be a profound
catalyst that makes the people want to be together and to grow together and to learn together. So
either the catalyst, for most people, the catalyst is either the fear of really bad experiences of
being human, or it's the, it's FOMO, it's a version of FOMO. I know that being human can
mean so much more than living in this box and watching television, but I don't know how to get
to that fear of missing out, right? Those are two highly motivated, highly motivating things,
but the third highly motivating thing is a fire, all right? Like the village is on fire, get up,
let's go, all right? Or, you know, in a city, you will see humans form highly effective cooperative
pods, little groups, right? Pods. Spontaneously, if there is a car accident, if there is an
earthquake, right? What will happen if there's an earthquake is you will see three things. The
people who are sort of neutral, they don't know what the fuck to do, so they're kind of milling
about. The people who are acquisitive, these people are looking for opportunities to profit
off the situation. And then people who are, you know, they convert to altruists, right? We're
going to help each other get through this right now.
Hey, power to you. You remind me of something critical I want to ask, and I wanted to ask you.
Let me ask you, Eric, right? Of course.
I keep your talk along, but I want to ask you this. You know, I've gone through a tough life
situation the last few years, right? And one thing you say for me has been a dog named Benji,
right? This is not surprising even slightly. I'm listening. Oh, okay. Yeah, no surprise there.
I want to ask you this one thing, and it goes into the granular of
unity is diversity. It's not, people don't have to riddle themselves with finding,
you know, you can find unity within diversity or allow for diversity within unity.
What you will find, you always find something like your hand, right? Or you have a bunch of unique
members, and there's no problem with the index finger being its own finger, no problem.
But they always work together for each other. And the synergy that the palm, right,
where they come together, the synergy where the palm of the hand is, that stuff is powerful.
In fact, that's the stuff that makes most of the trouble for humans is we're making the bad form
of synergy, right? We're like, Oh, with synergy, you can go faster, you can get more, you can,
you know, you can mutate and propagate wildly if you have synergy. But I'm listening,
I didn't hear your question. You were talking about diversity and unity. Go ahead.
Good, good, good. The small subset within that, okay. With my dog, right, the dog loves to come
and lick the inside of my mouth, right? And, you know, it's a mix between a golden retriever
and a poodle, right? A medium sized dog. Very humanly, I mean, like very into humans.
Yeah, I have no idea what people listening to our conversation will think when you say that,
but keep going because I'm going to go somewhere that I think you're actually going to go to,
but let's see. Anyway, you know, I mean, and I have this overall view that, you know, all
creatures and plants have been made. Maybe we don't know like a pet park, right? We don't know why,
what its ecological reason is, but it's got a reason. So when my dog, when this dog comes and
licks me, wants to, you know, out of his instinct, and he's so determined to like what to do it,
I let him, right? So as time goes on, it's fine, you know, because, right, but now let me go to
the gist I want to get to you. He, you know, we have, I think, much later after the first village,
right, adopted a practice of giving is different from getting and giving can never be as good as
taste satisfying as getting. That is such bullshit, but I understand that that's the tradition. Yes,
go ahead. Okay, but you know, for the dog, it doesn't occur to them. Yeah, you're right.
It's very happy, number one, and it's happy more time, much of its happiness comes from it giving.
It's like instinctively. I mean, I would argue that the dog doesn't even make that distinction.
Yeah, that's it. That's it. It never makes that distinction. It understands receiving,
so to speak, perhaps it differentiates that. I'm not sure, but its body understands the
difference between he's holding a chunk of meat, and he isn't, right? Body understands that. But
the thing about the dog, okay, look, it's doing something crazy. And, you know, this isn't to
suggest that everyone should French kiss their dogs, though, you know, for those of you for whom
it's natural, by all means. I mean, let them, you know, let them lick your mouth. I think many in
the West would consider that disgusting or dangerous or unhealthy because the dog has a lot of germs,
so to speak. But here's the actual thing that's crazy. I will argue something really bizarre
here, and I'll take responsibility for my argument. I will argue that your dog is already,
your dog has senses that sense your mind. Yeah, the same way you can smell the dog,
the dog can smell your mind. Right? Yeah, senses that can sense your mind. It has senses that can
participate with your mind. It has senses that are telepathic. It has senses with which it can
bond its intelligence to yours and give something truly astonishingly miraculous to you that dogs
give to humans all the time and the humans don't recognize it at all. They don't even notice it.
They just feel better when the dogs around. They can't see what the dog's actually doing. And I'm
going to argue that what most of the dogs are actually doing is they're trying to,
they're trying to do something like the Vulcan mind meld in Star Trek,
where Spock becomes, you know, the two minds become one mind. It's trying to do something
like that. And it's trying to do that for an array of heroic purposes. But one of the best things
it could possibly do, if that were its goal, would be to get its microbiota into your gut
microbiome and your microbiota into its. Once you start sharing the digestive microbiota, especially
the first, you know, sort of landing zone for microbiota and humans, one of them anyways,
the mouth. So, you know, when dogs are sniffing poop and doing whatever they're doing, presuming
they do such things, they're connoisseurs of bacteria. It's obvious to me from observing them.
So, I would argue that the dog is actually trying to become one fit more,
one organism with you, so that its microbiota get into your mouth and your microbiota get into
its mouth and some on both sides survive. And they reproduce and they become families of
trillions of organisms, trillions. There's 43 trillion bacteria inside a human body.
And once again, right, you have the same thing, you have unity and diversity.
The diversity supports the health of the unity. Yep. And especially, you know, Darren, on this
part, right, especially if you say, look, what is the reality when people talk about unity and
diversity in today's governance world? When they talk about unity, they're talking about
conformity, isn't it? Conformity does absolutely cannot be that the basis for unity.
No, this is why, yeah, this is why if you're putting a cohort together,
you don't want to have to give them rules. You want them to discover the process together
so that it's organic, I think. But in a dire situation where there's something interfering
with them discovering it together, the catalyst should declare the principles.
Wow, yes. The catalyst should communicate the principles to us. And what I was going to say is
that a long time ago, let me just say something really simple and stupid. By the time a human
collective needs rules, 70% of that collective has gone missing in action for one reason or another
in its offline. By the time you have to tell people what to do, the intimacy is not there.
There's no intimacy between them. They can't sense each other. They're not,
they're not sensing each other and doing predictive analysis for each other's needs
and vulnerabilities and things like that, which humans in a tightly knit group do that all day
long every day. They just naturally do that. They're vigilant in a way. They're vigilant of
everything as if they were the unity, as if the concerns of the unity, I don't know,
it's really hard to say it in language because it sounds like a rule and it's a game. It's not a rule.
Hmm. But once you make it a rule, you're going to have a tough time. Like by the time God had to
write stuff in stone on top of some mountain and send Moses down to his people with, with what, 10
rules, you got to imagine like things must have been really bad for something that severe to have
to happen. You got to tell people don't kill each other. You got to tell them not to steal.
Right. You got to tell them to wear a loincloth.
All right. Or, you know what, don't rub your butt on your food.
By the time you have to tell them these things, something has gone horribly haywire, like not
in a little way, in like an apocalyptically bad way, it can only go from here to disaster kind of way.
And, and tax, I mean, writing it down overall, I mean, in a large, in a large way,
it has taken us backwards, hasn't it? Especially, I mean, as with any technology, good and bad.
And also, unfortunately, for humans, pretty much unavoidable, given the situations,
unavoidable. I mean, yeah, once, okay, look, the problem with text is you have,
okay, if I am speaking with you, or you are speaking with me, right? Yeah. We both have an
idea of to whom we are speaking. And also to whom we are listening. Yeah. Once you have text,
you have the possibility, which is very dangerous for human cognition, the way human cognition,
psychologically, it's anatomy, very, very dangerous. If you have a thing, which is this,
speech without someone speaking it to you, now you can't tell whether that's an actual person,
whether it's a machine, whether it's God, or whether it's a problem in your consciousness.
And since you can't tell which one of these it is, things go badly. Once you have disembodied
speakers, things go badly for humans, generally. It's also a sign that things have already gotten
weird, right? I mean, when I think about getting humans together for each other,
and this is perhaps the most exciting thought I'm capable of having, I have to admit, it seems
almost impossible or wildly unlikely to my pragmatic mind, my pragmatic thoughts.
How do you tell them? What do you want them to do? What's so exciting that we're going to get
together and actually go on a mission, right? I mean, I have various answers to those questions,
but it sure seems, just as we were talking, as we were speaking about earlier in the conversation,
it seems to be a 0-100 problem. It isn't. It isn't a 0-100 problem, but it seems that way, until
you get a few experiences of making it work, right? And you can make it work for an hour,
you don't have to make it work for the future or the world, you can make it work for two hours
for five people. Now, they will get a taste, you will get a taste, both of you will realize,
oh, shit, we can do this. We can actually do this together, because I would argue,
and I know this is a very dangerous thing to say, but I'm quite certain of the truth of it.
I would argue that a team of five people could transform a nation in 90 days, any nation,
probably almost any five people. And if this was ever true in human history, it's more true now
than it's ever been, because the history and future of life on earth depends on the doing,
like the humans becoming intelligent. The humans must become intelligent, or either that,
or you have to kill off like 97% of them or something, right? If you want to keep the world alive,
because they'll just keep making machines. Not arguing to kill anybody, to be clear.
I'm saying, if you want to preserve life on earth, we either have to, like,
the entire history, the meaning of the history of life on this world, and the future of those
histories, we have got to get the humans playing a game that isn't lethal together, right?
Right. It's the fundamental priority. It's more important than any other thing I can think of,
if we care about, will there be a world for our grandchildren? If we don't care about that,
it's still really important. So then you have the problem of, in this case,
in the little toy universe that I'm creating here during our discussion.
In this case, what you do is you get five people together and you teach them how to solve an
intractable problem locally to where they live, right? So that they'd have the experience of
taking on a problem that just can't be fucking solved, synergizing, you know, solving the problem.
Now they'd have experience. This was, this topic was related to our agreement
to come, to listen, to talk together today, because we were talking about teams. I was
talking about teams and that's when you sent me a message on Facebook, right?
Yep. Yes, correct. Yes, correct. So there's something about collaboration.
Collaboration. How can we make it, make what you are trusting and which is what I'm trusting to
in your messages, yeah? God, I love that word.
Okay, you know, that's an alternative and you put it in such a way that
a lot of the usual suspects cannot even object to it because it's beyond...
Also, look, I don't care. I want to be really clear. Yes, I don't care about the usual suspects
objecting because here's what's going to happen. Once you get humans being actually human together
and the public is able to observe that happening
and see the results and see what it's like to be, to have the scope of our humanity,
some portion of that return to us, relationally, behaviorally, in terms of our role in our felt
sense of role, if you can give humans some of that back, those objectors are going to last about
six days and then they're going to be forming their own teams. Nobody will want to be left out.
No idiot is dumb enough that when they see that humans making that nectar of being human together,
they're going to be like, yeah, I don't want to be part of that. That's the original money.
Right? That's what money is a representation of is that nectar.
Yeah. That's right. That's right. It's the synergistic nectar.
And then the humans can learn things like this. You can teach children this and you're like, look,
your parents are doing this thing with money. And what they're really trying to get is this
other stuff that you and your friends make naturally when you play together.
They're not getting any of that. So they're trying really hard to get money.
You don't have to do that. The thing that you and your friends are doing can develop,
can grow and can be maintained and also can, you can get five people together and then
five of them split apart, two of those form new ones, the other three join existing ones.
Right? So that there's sort of cross pollination between
human pod groups. And this is something that works really, really well. The game that I'm
talking about is the game that every organism in nature is playing. And the humans are made
to play this game, but they're playing sort of the opposite of it, which is kill the unity
and make representations of the dead things and then sell them to each other.
So if you give them a game that's authentic to play and they like it,
it's going to become really contagious. If you give actual humans something to do that's amazing
and the other people see, you'll have objectors at first, but it's not going to last long.
Hmm.
If they don't say that again, you know, I want to process that small. Say the last two sentences
again. Okay, the goal is to do something so momentous and beautiful that nobody can stand
to be left out. Nobody. Everybody wants it. That's full on. I can sense that because
And that's an achievable thing. In a way, just you and I speaking of such matters is the beginning
of that. Can you see why I say that, Bala? Yeah, yeah, yeah. And I know a hundred percent,
you know, and I have happened in my background, right? These people who are labeled as poor
and whatever in the zero crime villages, but these kids are so rich. I mean, they are alive.
Yes. And to be human.
If you get excited with a cockroach being upside down, I mean, whatever toys can come from
what the rest of the world might call nothing, but they're excited, right? Because like you were
saying, you know, walking is impossible. Running is impossible. Jumping is impossible. But
they're not overwhelmed by all of the text, you know, around the world, I suppose.
Yes. And also, I mean, I'm guessing is do the children have phones?
No, they don't.
By the way, this is like an alien comes to Earth and, you know, finds your village and looks and
says, this is a very unusual village here. Where are your children's phones? And you say,
they don't have any. And the alien says, oh, I'd like to raise my children here. Do you think it
would be okay? Can I can we do this together? Because, wow, yeah, I mean, it's almost like it's
almost like asking, do your children wear a mechanical parasite that destroys their attention,
motivation, awareness? It's not the only thing the phones do, but
it's a lot of what they do.
Darren, you remind me, you know, like I'll be going back again in a couple of months to the
back to the village scene. Yeah. And the permanently based there very soon. I'm just
organizing to do that. Yeah. Time some of those things with the urban world. Okay.
Okay. What was beautiful? Every time I'm there, right? The kids automatically want to help the
mother. Yeah. You know, I mean, it was very common, right? It was very common me growing
up my sisters would help the mother, and I would help the father and stuff like that, right? There's
no, I mean, they didn't have to do too much. But, but now I'm afraid, you know, my kids and
to some extent, but just generally, I noticed that it's they're finding it very, people are
finding it very hard to get their kids to do chores. Yeah. But when I go to the village,
the kids seem to like, wow, I'm given a chance to be an adult. Yes.
They seem to amuse me and like, wow, they're treating me like an adult now. They don't
completely say I can't do this and I can't do that and stuff. And so because my brother-in-law's
my, sorry, my, yeah, my brother-in-law's children. Yeah. Essentially, essentially,
my nephew is like, right? Anise is bringing breakfast. I'm upstairs and they're downstairs
and they're bringing coffee and this and this is like eight years old. She does a good job,
right? I'm so happy with that. And you know, a mother or my wife doesn't have to
push up. She looks forward to doing this, right? It's like, yeah, okay, what you'll find is like,
in our culture, the children are competing to get things. They want to get things.
In the village culture, the children are competing to, it's not merely give.
They are competing to participate meaningfully with the family, the village, the planet and the
adults and the children. They can participate meaningfully. And so the chance to bring coffee
is better than just sitting there looking at my thumb. And they don't have a smartphone to
defect into. So they're not going to defect that way. So, you know, I could be doing any other
thing, but the chance to bring coffee is meaningful. I'm serving my ancestors. They are still alive
today with me in the same room, right? This is magic, right? We are still alive together.
Yeah. And then maybe with that, if it's just a rite of passage as in, right? You know, one of the
things all want to be is like, they don't want to be treated like kids, like we know nothing,
you know? There's that air too often, right? I mean, some of that works in their favor because
some of the children respond to that by becoming monumentally intelligent.
Yeah, correct. Right. Because they're like, that dumb kid, you know, my dad called me dumb.
So I learned quantum physics, right? You know, or, you know, I'm just giving a ridiculous example.
But yeah, some of it does sort of help the children. But it should, that shouldn't be the
the cultural, you know, that shouldn't be the cultural tradition. I'm listening.
So wait, Darren, I want to imprint this into my head, right? Which is,
first, number one, that there's an issue, there's a big problem of getting kids to like do sensible
things, right? So sure. And one of the reasons why they don't want to do a sentence, what you're
saying is, okay, they are lost. They think they want to get things. And yeah, they want to also,
okay, they want to either get things or they want to defect. And they're addicted to electronic
stimuli and things like that. Right. So they're used to constantly referring to an object with
their attention. The children there don't have to do that. If they have a phone. Even if they have
a computer, if they have a phone, if they have a video game, if they have a television,
you know, if they have even a radio, it starts to be the same kind of thing.
And also, because we've totally, you know,
Okay, I have to say,
I'm sorry, I have to say. The thing all those things are replacing is meaningful relation
in the village with the others. All those things, they are replacing that they are the money version
of the nectar that's produced naturally when the people are there for each other.
This great sweetness.
And you know, combination of silence, laying hopscotch in front of the hall,
seeing the kids from the neighbor's house coming, not wearing something different.
All of that is little sparkles, you know, and talking and learning how to
It is because you and the children are there together for each other, even the children who
aren't yours. And you know, the children, they like, I mean, I don't know how to put it.
The children are carrying assets that the adults don't recognize and dispose of
and punish the children for carrying everywhere around here, mostly a little bit of, you know,
there are a few intelligent parents that know better.
But the children are bringing something to the table. And the adults pretend,
since you eat our food, you are dependent on us. And since we have to protect you,
you are dependent on us. And this creates a kind of slavery.
Children in the West are sort of conceived of as slaves.
This is why we send them to school, which is basically a slave making process.
This is why, you know, they go to university and get degrees and so forth to function in
the representational layer of human culture and society, which is, you know, mostly pretty bad.
Mostly different kinds of slavery. The children are meant for something else,
and they can tell the adults are suffering, and they have assets that will ease the suffering
of the adults if they don't eradicate it. The children are carrying something like medicine.
Children are living medicine. The adults are living medicine, especially when they are together
for each other, then they naturally make the medicine together. Does it make sense?
Yes, yes, yes. In this case, medicine isn't like a pharmaceutical. Medicine is
medicine is the food and drink of our soul or our heart. Medicine is what, yeah.
You know, being ready to learn, you know, as opposed to taking for granted that
take the representational layer, sense the wrong signals, you know.
It does. It completely messes up our thought.
Go on. Sorry, Darren.
No, no, please. I'm sorry. Please continue.
Yeah, no, you know, often I'm not able to, it's kind of like, often I'm not able to articulate it,
but I understand, you know.
Okay, the moderns are captured by a layer of processes that they enact as behaviors,
like drive the car to the grocery store, get the groceries, go to the job, get the pay,
take the kid to the doctor, pay the attorney, do the taxes, watch the television show,
mind the smartphone, clean the house, chores, what we would call chores.
But really, those are like, those are all, all those processes are mostly vampiric.
They are extractive. They take something from us and they give us a representation.
Now, we can negotiate that layer very carefully if we're smart, so that we get actually nourishing
food when we go to the grocery store, and we don't get poison, for example, candy bars and whatever.
But the representational layer is powerful. It's well established. It affects everything on earth.
It's lethal. It steals life. You know, it, it's, an actual vampire would be terrified if it saw
the representational layers, relationship with humans, because it would, it would realize that
that must be its God. That must be the God of the vamp. That's what spawns vampires. Vampires come
from that, you know, if there are such things, right? But yes, the medicine that the village
makes together, this medicine is very powerful and it has a unique protective effect. Vampires bounce
off of it. It makes like a shield, right? And so vampirism doesn't get established in the children
or the adults, and they're busy playing every other beautiful game. Everybody will be happy,
even when things are difficult, they're still going to be way happier. Yeah. Everyone will be
taking care of each other. I'm listening. Hey, then one way of like maybe peeling away the
representation layer, just expose it to people. I've tried that. I mean, it works because I,
it's true. To me, it's true. Okay, I'll tell you this, right? Even the people there in the village
and stuff, you know, in central Java, right? It was very famous, you know, spice trade Asia,
emergent people are discovering things and all that stuff, right? From nothing, you know,
village just became better and better, right? As humanity went on, right? But all of that is kind
of like blocked off by modern writing and books and even anthropology and stuff. They don't write
about it that much, because, okay, but okay, this thing I want to tell you. Once I'm in the village,
I realize, you know what? These people are the richest people on planet Earth, even though they
have very little currency. Sorry, there's a lot of currency, but very little money. Yeah.
Why? Why? Yeah, because money, money eats, money eats the spirit of relation between humans.
It does. It destroys that shit. It just eats, it's like pouring acid there to get rid of it,
because now there's a single standard to rule all things. Like the terror in the fantasy story
to Lord of the Rings, one ring to rule them all, is that the ring that rules the seven
elvish magic rings that keep the world alive, the ring that rules them is malignant.
And that's money. The one ring that rules them all in Tolkien's language,
cash is the best metaphor for it around here. It's hard to say, it's hard to say that it isn't
objectively evil, because it's affecting the humans. Okay, look, I could show you so many
features of this. Oh, God, all right. I used to feed some blue jays. I met these blue jays,
I'd bring them peanuts. I took great joy in feeding them. And the male would come to my hand.
He'd land on my hand, take a peanut, female wouldn't.
Okay. For important reasons.
One day the female got angry with me, and I didn't really understand why.
But what I had noticed was this.
The blue jay couple forms a vigilance pair. The girl stays up high.
The boy can go down an adventure. Only when the boy is up high does the girl come down.
Oh, shit, I just realized that. Okay.
So I was interfering in that, and it would have been okay if I'd interfered in it once or twice
a day. But it's not okay if I interfere with it for two hours. And the reason it's not okay
is that they live in the terrain of a pair of Cooper's hawks, and those hawks hunt blue jays.
Oh. All right. So here's what I'm doing. I'm giving them the effect. Okay. Here's why I'm telling
this story. If you put something in front of people or animals that's so compelling
that it not only changes their behavior, it changes what they can be.
All right. It drags what they can be down to fewer, much more explicit things.
All decisions become binary. Identity becomes binary. When I was throwing those peanuts on
the ground for the girl bird, she wouldn't come to my hand. She was having to go to the ground
without radar above her because the male was off stashing the peanut. I'd just given him.
I wasn't paying attention to their vigilance necessities, and I was providing them with a
stimulus that was so compelling that they would break their culture of mutual support.
Right. It would break that culture. Yeah. It's so compelling that their bodies,
it's like putting meat in front of a dog. The body is going to respond.
If you watch, just put like a stack of $100 bills, tie it up with a rubber band,
and put it on a street and watch the humans. It will drag their behavior down to
the most likely. It captures the nervous system. Can you see that? It's a representation
that's powerful enough to completely capture the nervous system of an animal.
And for the blue jays, that's peanuts. And for the humans, that's cash. Or these days, crypto.
Yeah. And overall, it's because, I mean, if they were enough of what I'm saying,
like the zero crime villages, right? Meaning there's... Why do these... Okay. I have to ask you.
I'm sorry, go ahead. If there were enough of the zero crime villages.
Okay. If there was enough of that, and people go and live inside there,
like say, my wife comes from Indonesia too. Despite all the amount of money, quite a lot of
immigrants who come here, who work here, want to stay in Malaysia. They come from around the region,
with much poorer places, maybe like Nepal or... Used to be Thailand, Sri Lanka, country up,
countries that have got constant political problems and stuff. So people really have a tough
time finding a job and stuff like that. When they come here, many of them, they want to stay here
because life is better for them here, right? But this Indonesia, Java, when they come here,
they want to go back. Why do they want to go back? They see their village as the safety,
the security of the village as like a... The nest is too cozy for them to want to trust
anything else. They want to go back, go to the nest. So what I'm saying is, and so it's essentially...
Oh, I see. Wait, their way of life is so familiar that the new way of life, even though it's amazing,
they go back to the old one anyway. Is this what you mean?
Yes. Or do you mean, is that it? It's not just old. It's not just old. At least one thing is
add to the old. Old plus, I won't be sent into an old folks home.
Oh, right.
They just can't... Whatever comfort you may give to them in an old folks home,
they don't want it. They want to be poor with their kids, their grandkids.
They want to care and be cared for by family members who know their idiosyncrasies,
not some institution has. Okay, that was brilliant. Yes, that's very, very true.
I would almost go so far as to say that for most of us, that is a implicit feature of our human
experience is that as we get older, most of us soften and we become vulnerable.
Yes. And loneliness is much more difficult to bear
than it was when we were younger. And we may be infirm and have illnesses and we may need help
with certain things so that if I'm in a house where there's children around, I feel relatively
safe if there's something I can't handle that they can take care of it. Or my brothers and
sisters or, you know, there's family and if there's not family, there's the neighbors and they are
family. The humans naturally do this. They family up unless something gets in between them first.
And one of the main things that gets in between them, at least where I live, is money. The fact
that you guys don't have that. See, in the village, the lack of the importance of money is almost
like saying, we get water that isn't, we get relational water that hasn't been pre-poisoned.
You see? Yep. It's the same thing you said earlier. You said, I, what did you say? I'm in,
I'm inclined to unconditional love or something like this, right? And I said, no, you just never
defected. The villagers don't, they don't defect. There's nothing that would motivate them to
defect. A big stack of money, they might just laugh at it and say like, no.
You know, I mean, if you're right, you know, to add to what you're saying then, you know,
like the helicopter, they kind of like bail out of their village for a while to get some money
so they can build a house. Once they get that minimum amount, they're back and they're not,
they don't want to be in the town anymore. They want to be back in the village.
That's hilarious. Do you see how much more intelligent that is than what we do?
Like in a situation like that, your humanity has a shot at surviving and so do the relationships
that most matter in your heart. In the other place where they just go to the village and they stay
there. I mean, they go to the town, you know, they go work to get the money and then they just stay
there. They continue to stay there because they bought extra houses. They're dying inside.
And that's it. They're going to live after they die. I mean, they're not going to die.
They must leave so much wealth to the next generation and things will be better. No,
they create, everybody is doing it, crime culture, you know, despite prosperity.
It's funny because I think it's really important when I hear you speak, you say,
we have a zero crime village. And I'm not sure that a lot of people even know that such things
exist at all in the world. Obviously, yeah, no, most people would be like,
what does that even mean? Although the statement makes it real, you know, the language makes it
relatively clear what it means. There's no crime here. And by the way, if there's no crime, like
you probably don't, you don't really need cops. You might need a fire department. Yeah,
but you don't need cops and you don't need weapons. You don't need lawyers. You don't need guns.
Yeah, you don't need an anti-corruption body. Yeah, right, right, right, right. Yeah, you don't
need courts. You don't need prisons. The most obvious things is like putting, you know,
cosmeticized dirt, you know, like it's really dirty, but you put lots of makeup and you stop
anybody saying the truth about it. Yes, all these things are, I mean,
I usually don't think in religious terms, but when I see the festering malignance
of the prisons and the courts and the cops and the armies and the military and so forth,
it's hard for me not to think that they're demons. They do what actual demons would actually do.
So it doesn't really matter whether their origin is metaphysical or not. They're the same damn thing.
Now look, here where we live in the West, in America, the institutions that
underlie our social agreements, our governments, which is a big mess of a million little branches,
our police, the military, the fire department, the hospitals, the schools, right? Those things.
Yeah. Some of them are decent. We couldn't get along without cops because shit would just turn
into the wild, wild West, we think. So we have to have cops. And sometimes the cops are an absolute
nightmare and sometimes they save your life. They sort of have both, you know, both valences.
The fire department almost always just does good.
You know, he's put out fires. Okay. That's not, of all the single jobs you could pick,
that one seems pretty virtuous. The hospital's kind of similar. The schools, the schools started
to get sketchy because it's about slave making and stuff. But
you think universities are worse than the schools?
The intensity of the blight, right? The intensity of the disease in the university is similar
to grade schools and high school. It's just more sophisticated and highly complex, right?
Let's just call this the malware in the education system, right? It's in every step of the system.
So the malware is in the whole staircase. But the way the malware works up near the top of the
staircase in the universities is different. And there's, you know, 15 new kinds as of last year.
That stuff is mutating, right? As fast as you could try to eradicate it, it's
emerging in new forms as you watch it, right? It's very,
it's highly resistant to technical intervention.
Its primary vulnerability is relational intervention. Change the relationships the
malware can't function. Hey, Darren, would the U.S. have less of a problem,
less of a problem, malignant super problem, if it wasn't such a lot, if it was, say,
five separate countries? Not messy. It's interesting. Okay. The honest answer is,
of course, we don't know. Okay. The simple, wait, let me finish. The simple correct answer is
any attempt at responding would obviously just be my opinion. Whereas some of the things that
I'm talking about are not merely my opinion. These are, in a sense, obvious features of our
situation. But I think
that solution or that transformation would change a lot of things. We've never really
experienced anything much resembling it. I don't have any data. And it's not like we're just asking
in a vacuum. We're asking in the time and context in which we live. So we're asking like,
if the U.S. split into five bodies in 2024, what effect do you think that would have on
malware and education? One feature of the setup that I like is if you've got five petri dishes
in which to attempt to spawn something more intelligent than our educational system,
you'd have five shots at it instead of one. But you can actually have as many shots as you want
because the fact that, you know, and I mean, anybody who wants to is free to start some kind
of new educational system. Most people aren't that bold. And there have been attempts, you know,
in the states we have Waldorf schools, for example, which are wildly different from
standard educational system. You don't hear much talked about what happens to Waldorf students.
I mean, like, for example, as a cohort, are they better citizens than the others, you know,
because right now, I don't know what the data is on that. What is that Rudolph Steiner's game,
I think it was. Yeah, Rudolph Steiner as well. Yeah, I one of my girlfriends had been raised
in a Waldorf school. And I'd known a couple of other people who were. And even when I was young,
some of the same ideas were used to build a school that had one classroom for all the ages. So
like a central, like, you know, unity, right, we'll keep all the ages together, they can learn
together, help each other instead of segmenting them, didn't go very well for who knows 10 reasons
to Sunday. But yeah, I don't know. Did it not go well because the malignancy spread across
so many aspects. Yes, look, look, you know, I can imagine a science fiction story where we'd go to
to. We pick 70 billionaires. We go to them and we tell them, we will educate your children.
We will give your children an educational experience that they will always be excited
about and they will outperform anything you can buy from anyone else.
And so you build the system experimentally that way, you learn how to do that, right, that way.
And then you just attack the whole fucking school system from there with the same with
whatever you can produce from that breeder reactor, right? How do we actually get children
meaningful human experience and at the same time, deep representational intelligence.
And one of the best ways to do that is just to teach them the structure of representational
cognition. Once they see that, they will never bow to it. They'll manipulate it from above,
just like humans should always do. It's okay if we have representations, we have to manipulate
them from above. We have to not be manipulated. We have to not be puppeted by our own representations.
Does that make sense? Yep, no, all the sense. Yep. Yeah. And you could teach this. This is
teachable stuff, right? This is stuff we could discover. There's features of language and modern
thought. This features simple, semantic and linguistic and philosophic features that you
could teach to children and adults that would mostly free them, at least in their minds,
from, I don't know, 68% of the traps they're going to face in consciousness throughout their
lifetime. We're walking around wearing like iron cages in our minds, us humans, so far,
most of us. I am myself included to the degree that I live in a city. I'm subject to the same
problem. I'm a prisoner dreaming of a jailbreak.
Where it sounds like for you, you know where outside the jail is and you intend to get there
right quick. Good. Is Benji with you?
Said that again. Is Benji with you where you are?
Yeah, I mean, I thought I heard him barking. Oh, not right now?
No, not right now. Earlier he was. He was just staying here. And before I started talking to
him, I heard him. It's quite a character once, but it's saved my sanity and has me
to really much better understand the village scene. Because you get lost, one of the things is
me too, I wanted to achieve. You know, you've got this, right? So, and if all kinds of people,
like not just everybody, like 10 out of 10, 100 out of 100, 1000 out of 1000 people,
only know achievement by, hey, how much wealth do you have? Yes, that's what I said.
Yeah, it's a sick standard that turns everything to one thing. So when you ask them, you know,
when they determine your value as a person, they want to know what property you own,
who you're married to, you know, are you, are you well bred? Do you come from power? Do you come
from money? Like, for example, you know, I got suspended by LinkedIn, you know,
of being forthright, right? Because fellas were doing a con job in Singapore and stuff. So I was
like, stop. I mean, just generally it pisses me off, like nobody speaks up against a blatant con.
Yeah, okay, I agree. I agree. But let's, let's agree together that we will try to discover how to
do things that are effective. Yep. Right. So that even if we take on some kind of small mission
together, even the mission of this conversation, because this, you know, this works, then let's
just have the some simple agreements. I'm not trying to write these in stone, but we will try to help
each other see better. And if action is required, we will try to find very effective ways to act.
Yeah. Because LinkedIn is like putting a firecracker in the fire department.
Like they're just waiting for someone to go sideways. It's the same with Facebook. Those,
those are battlegrounds. That's enemy owned terrain.
This is part of why I am careful, mostly careful on Facebook. It's funny, you know, a few days ago,
I did something I never, ever do. I posted some comments from a news source on a political issue.
Okay. And it wasn't any rowdy. It wasn't any specifically radical statement.
Over the next two weeks, that post got zero views. None. No one saw it. Oh, wow. Shadow ban.
Yeah, not an accident.
Evious, isn't it? That was such a devious thing to do.
Well, I'll tell you, Valala, there's, we could, we could take that model and flip it over.
That model, okay, that thing gives us a model of what not to do.
If you have a really good model of what not to do, you can flip it over and no one will not want to
be there. Like I have a model of how to build a system on the internet that puts us back together,
keeps all our data and communications private. Okay. Helps us get smarter every time we make a
move with a machine of any kind. Okay. Yep. And produces a social adventuring system
so that people form teams to accomplish, you know, instead of putting a ball through a hoop,
right? We accomplish something in the actual world of humans.
Ah, you've been developing it. I have a model.
I can show you a model of how we could do it. And also, okay, now here's the, here's the thing
that's actually a little more compelling. Okay. The way that system works is a model of how we
can play together without machines. We don't need machines to do it. We naturally do it together.
If most of the malware isn't running, we naturally do this together. I'm just trying to,
to demonstrate that there's a way that we could take the electronic infrastructure of the internet
and do something completely the opposite of what we're doing with it.
And it would be, I mean, it would outcompete everything that currently exists.
And it would, I mean, there's so many abilities you could have with it that we don't have.
And look, I'm not a big fan of link the humans to machines.
That's not, that's not my, my favorite game plan by a long shot. The problem I have is that the humans
are linked to machines. So if we want to capture some humans and give them a shot at liberty,
or at least discovering what that might mean, we might need to capture their machines.
Yes.
We might need those machines doing something different than what they're doing,
like something non-vampiric with the humans.
These are just thoughts, but I do, I think very deeply about these matters because I want,
I want the experience of being with other humans doing meaningful things. That's what I actually want.
Really. Same here, Darren. Say that much because I, like, I just, I kind of like,
when I've had enough of these machines and all in the town, I just run away, but you know, I just,
Yes.
You know, both and go. Because I kind of like, I don't want to explain and be politically correct
and use the language to, you know, to go, you know, to just go.
Hey, but I hear you 100% on, you know, I got to do things more effectively than I have.
Meaning, you have to, in the transition, you have to get into the machines that they are attached to,
to get them off the machines. Like, for example, one after another.
If all the kids are going to have phones, we have to give those, we have to give those kids
something on their phones that it doesn't eat them alive.
Right.
And to, to, to even, you know, get them to instruct them or I mean, like, to, to get them to work
together to, for an offline activity. And what I, what I have in mind as I talk to you here is
confederating and intense, making a bit more intense, right? Village life in a village and
small town life in Indonesia, Darren, right? A country of 20 million people, right?
One of the last passions of reality, you know?
I know, but if you, if you, the funny thing is, it's ironic, dude. If you,
one of the questions that I had in our conversation for you that I haven't asked you yet is,
do you want your village to have a voice?
Yes.
With which it speaks to the world?
Yes. Yes.
Okay. So I thought perhaps this might be so. And what I'm trying to tell you is that's not
impossible, but to protect the village, that voice might have to be anonymous.
Sure. All of that's good.
If, okay, but if something, if, if the world realizes there's a zero crime village.
That's not going to go well, dude. That will not go well.
Never. Because they, what they'll come over then, you know, they think that they can fast it, is it?
Ah, there's 15 things that can go wrong with that.
But I did have the same idea early in our conversation. I thought to myself,
wait, there's a zero crime village, holy cow, like we need to get these people on the radio to the
other villages. We need to link the zero crime villages around the world. We need to, you know,
these people need to have a voice. And then I thought, wait a minute, that sounds like
setting up a sky beacon to 15 different kinds of vampires.
It was just like, I can't wait to extract whatever nectar they're managing to produce over there
and commodify that and bank the, bank the profit.
You know, except, you know, I've said that, you know what it is,
a whole bunch of things, has it like, it's not that easy. You know, I'll give you, I'll give you
a few examples, right? If you go to India, if you go to even Malaysia, right, pretty much
all good sources of natural water, right, from the mountains has been taken over by a Nestle or
a company like that. This is what I mean by vampires. It's straight up vampires, right? They
go after the water, you know, I'm with you. I'm with you. Go ahead. They know how to do the TV
advertising and the search engine, all that stuff. Yeah, we'll give you candy bars. We'll give you
some candy bars, you know, yeah. But in Indonesia, right, the politics is such that it's very hard
to, it seems like, you know, many layers, you know, and it's not, it's not mainstream,
it's not organized so that you can say, ah, this is one layer, this is the, you know, exactly
layer and all that. It's just kind of like a bit all over the place. So it's like,
meaning, for example, to get the mountain water, right, by a Nestle, they have to get 18 different
approvals and those, they're not in four or five camps. They're like all over the bloody place,
you know? So you can't, people don't try, seems like they try and give up and it doesn't go anywhere,
you know? So they go after a few things, maybe like a national telephone, maybe they can get
somewhere. But not anything that has got some, too much of a regional local footing, like water
from a river, from a mountain, whatever, whoever, it's the people in the villages nearby, the people
affected by that river have enough of a sea and somehow have enough of a topic, right? That doesn't
get there. So yeah, you know, I can't explain exactly all why, but one big difference between
Indonesia and quite a lot of the rest of the world. I mean, this just makes me think,
Bilal, I'm sorry to say this, but it just makes me think, Nestle is right now talking to Bard
about how to break that trap, right? Nestle's going to straight up use AI and go like, okay,
this trap has 19 parts. Can you solve for this? I mean, I'll be like, yeah, here's three solutions
with a 70% chance of success. And here's 19 with a, you know, 58. Right? That will not last.
That safety won't last. I mean, who knows what's going to happen. The world is wildly unpredictable.
We could be, we could be living in a, from now on, it might just be like a storm of black swans,
events that we never predicted or thought of. There's certainly much many more of those now
that there, than there ever were in our life. But go ahead. Somehow, you know, the, you know,
the alternative, you know, the alternative, I mean, like, to me, like life in Malaysia has gone
downhill. And when I sense the US has gone downhill, you know, at a very fundamental,
I mean, give the individual enough fall, you know? I mean, like, why must, why must there be like,
virtually no choice except to be, to go into an old folks home? Why can't the family unit be together?
I mean, what's, yes, yes, because it's the difference between a modern culture and a traditional
culture. And look, in some, in some nations, there is still traditional culture. There's
even some of it here in the United States where the children just naturally care for their parents
and grandparents and so forth. But mostly it comes from other countries, because for some reason,
during the origin of this nation, that value was not emphasized.
It was much more about the privilege, entitlement, defection and addiction of the individual.
Which, you know, like I said, is basically just malware. It's relational malware.
Or, you know, perhaps that's one useful way to think about it. It's not the only way. But yeah,
that tradition wasn't preserved. If you go to Japan, it's there. I don't know how much in
various places in China it is. Russia is a bit more like the United States. France and England
more like the United States. But some other countries, the tradition is alive. And in most
countries that didn't suffer eradicative colonization, that tradition, you know, lives.
It's naturally, I think it's naturally human. It's not the only game in town, but I think it's naturally human.
I mean, the problem in modern countries is we want convenience and grandma and grandpa are wildly
inconvenient. I'd rather defect by watching some comedy channel on TV than deal with, you know,
whatever's going on with my ancestors. It's a defection based culture.
Sorry, go ahead. But there is other ramifications too, you know, like all folks, right? I think.
Yeah. No, the all folks who like the children. Oh, sorry, go ahead. No, like the whole,
90, they say like, for example, 90% of medical expenses or something of that sort, right?
Right. And like, that's not why not die a year earlier?
Well, the main reason you don't want to die a year earlier is because there's nothing has
been fulfilling in your life. You've been living a life of just affecting from
whatever you might have otherwise participated in.
It's very safe, but it's extremely lonely and boring.
Because I mean, like you die in your village together with the other people and so you're not
drugged onto onto a really hopeless medical system, you know, medical system that
and you know, supposedly wants to keep you alive. But usually it is actually vampiric. Yeah. Yeah.
Literally, it just sucks. It sucks the life out of you and then it sucks the money out of your
family for sucking the life out of you. It's like a double vampire. That's I mean, if someone said,
hey, would you want it on this game? We're going to suck the life out of this person. You're going
to get that life and we're going to suck the money out of their family. You're going to get the money.
You want some? You know, a lot of people would just say yes.
So, and, you know, and come on with all the challenges. And don't you think, you know,
don't you think AI would be used to like bring make this explicit and yeah, guys, right? This is
not really, this is a Boston bargain. That's not a bargain. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, although the problem
is that the AIs are curated and it would be just as much of a problem if they weren't.
Like the humans have really invented something very, very dangerous here. And it's not without
promise. But as we know from looking historically at humans and technology,
that shit goes sideways right after the idealism is overcome by piracy.
If you still taught me today, despite all the negatives of the US
medical insurance system and how it's wasteful and all that stuff, right?
Enough, you know, let's say at the public intellectual level, enough of us know that,
hey, all said and done, Canada seems to be doing it a bit better and
in other European countries and okay, Australia seems to be doing it better than the US.
Exactly. There are examples of countries that do it pretty well, we might imagine.
Hmm. Okay. But that doesn't seem to be portable into the US. You can't look at a guy who gives
an excuse, oh, we have the US and blah, blah, blah, blah. Okay, look. Yeah, I know, but what you
don't, okay, look, the problem here is that, and this is an ironic problem, we actually call this
country the US. That is the word of us. And that along with many, yeah, right, that along with
many unfortunate features of our history, incline the citizens of the United States
to think in a way that is fundamentally black and white, fundamentalistic, you know,
it's fundamentalist in its understanding of us and them, who are we and who are they.
And most of the us's are fake, right, the same way most of the thems are, but if you identify
with one of those fake us's, you inherit a bunch of them's. And this is a kind of an us and them
economy that the US is amazing at. It's like being amazing at filling your own organs with
cancer or something relationally. It will never work intelligently. But this is a fundamental
problem with us. Yeah, it's bad. Despite the fact that, I mean, your states and your municipalities
have enough independence, for example, you know, yeah, I do, but Miami goes up.
Yeah. They can, but they generally don't because the malware, the influence of the malware is
powerful. Right. Politics in the United States is a lot about what various kinds of theft,
counterfeiting value, counterfeiting value more effectively than your opponent.
Get the money. And then a sort of complex backroom favor exchange among politicians.
So it's like the structure of the system might be sound. We've never implemented that system.
Does that make sense? Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. It's just a layer of, it's like a multi-layer
cake of seven kinds of piracy floating on top of the structure as it stands as a legal or
you know, sociological agreement system. Mostly the structure doesn't get implemented.
What gets implemented is piracy and vampirism.
I think Vivek Ramaswamy, you know, was running for a while. And when he articulates it, you can
sense that, for example, you know, you want to, he talks about getting rid of the FBI, right.
Trump couldn't, because Trump was essentially cornered by the civil servants that you can,
there are too many laws that stop you from firing civil servants, right. But
Ramaswamy was saying that that is the case when you're firing individual civil servants.
But if you're having a mass restructuring, you know, the law allows you to do that. And with
the Supreme Court, as it's stated, as it's constituted, because it's got enough of a majority
of Trump appointees or conservatives, right, who are ready for, I mean, who see the sense of,
yeah, the President has the right to restructure the FBI, you know, by executive order, by,
I mean, this guy's, yeah, or possibly even the Constitution. I mean, you know,
Trump is basically, okay, Trump is really dangerous for, in my view, for two reasons.
The first is that he has successfully circumvented regulation in the past.
And the second is that he has, not only does he have no respect for regulation, he's a scoff law,
right. And a scoff law will earn the vote of every male scoff law in the United States,
just for that one reason. And, and, okay, the third thing that's dangerous about him is he has
shown much smarter people what is possible. And what he has shown is possible is as follows,
the United States as a nation can be captured by a single male human being.
He's shown them that. He's basically shined a flashlight on a part of the game,
that nobody really believed was possible. He's doing the impossible. He's going from,
he's going to go from zero to 100. Right. He's going to have a go at the impossible.
And he's old enough that he probably doesn't give much of a shit if he fails. He's got nothing to
lose. Right. It's all anything he gets done is gravy. Right. Like he can do anything that works.
So yeah, this is a dangerous shit. He's shown others who are much more intelligent than him
that the prize can be had. You can take the Virgin home with you, for sure. Right. You can have a
whole family. You know, that whole thing, you can just grab that whole damn thing and one fell
swoop. Right. And here's how you do it. You start with these moves over here. You play some judges
on the Supreme Court, Bing Bang Boom, Casino payoff. Right. That's really dangerous. He's shown
others that it can be done. I mean, he's relatively stupid in my view, or at least he plays that face
really well. But man, what a fucking dangerous idiot. Oh my God. But hey, Darren, when you had
Hillary, you know, running against Hillary Clinton, running against Trump, didn't it occur to you that
my God, the U.S. has failed with these people running for president? I mean, like. That's
brilliantly said. But yeah, no, that that occurred to me some happen. Okay, I'm pretty sure that
that occurred to me when I was six and I watched John F. Kennedy being executed in Texas over and
over again on TV and, you know, juxtaposed with some of his speeches. No, that that dream died in me
a long, long time ago, my friend. I mean, I was born the month after Kennedy was executed. And I've
seen that guy speak. I've never seen anything in politics resembling the appearance of true
human virtue that I saw in him. I note that it's the appearance. I'm not saying the guy was a saint.
I'm saying in a room full of demons, he stood out brightly. And that happened only a couple
times during my lifetime. You know, Carter might not have been a great president, but he wasn't
evil. Yeah, I mean, so to me, like, if you can allow a contest like that, well,
what is your fail and what what what else can expect of a fail system? Apparently,
I think most Americans expect that the failure of the United States has to end with a bunch of
bloodshed and violence, preferably as much as possible, maybe even apocalypse level, right?
If we're going to go out, we're not going to, we're not going to switch to a new system. We're
going to take the planet with us, just like any insane psychopath, you know, would do, right?
We're not going to stop. We're not going to try a new way of doing this. We're going to blow
shit up, you know, because there's a feature in private cognition that can be inflamed enough.
And the human societies resemble the shadow of this problem. So the kid who
all right, I could probably tell you a lot about what happens when some kid picks up an automatic
weapon and goes to a public place and just opens up on the people there. Because what's happening
in that kid's mind is a reflection of what of a feature of our society. And that feature is
I will win whether I deserve to or not. And if I don't win, everybody dies.
There's a feature of private cognition that works that way. There's a feature of our own minds that
works that way, and it gets reflected in the social cognition of modern humans.
And that's the thing that produces, you know, stuff like, I don't know, Hitler, Putin invading
Ukraine. I mean, maybe there's maybe there's stuff I don't know about that move, but that looks,
you know, insane to me from outside. Israel pounding Gaza into dust.
Not dissimilar, except in that case, somebody punched them first or so it seems.
Yep, yep, yep, yep.
I think the people there, just like, I mean, I remember when 9-11 happened in the United
States, I had two thoughts. The first was, oh my God, 15 people just changed the course of the
nation in 12 hours. Wow, I thought it could be done. And then the second was, oh my God,
and then the second was, oh my God, are we in trouble now? We're going to go chasing the wrong,
we're going to go killing the wrong scapegoat for, yeah, we're going to kill the wrong scapegoat.
And that's going to create a future of enmity and hatred,
and blood oaths of vengeance and things like this.
Both thoughts. Now, I'm not an advocate of changing the course of nations with violence.
I want to be very clear about that. But I did notice that a very small group of humans in this
was like the course of, I don't know, 48 hours, they radically altered the course of an entire
nation. That made me realize that the principle was real. A small number of people. I just imagine
the, you know, I'm trying to figure out what's the opposite of a bomb, and how do we make one?
What's the opposite of a bomb? Yeah, yeah, what's the human relational opposite of a bomb,
and how do we make one? I want to make the opposite of a bomb. I want something that
heals things back together explosively and contagiously. It just starts crystallizing the
whole network toward, you know, intelligent unity. I can imagine it. I can see it in my mind. It's
possible. Yes, yes, yes, it's possible. It doesn't occur to me right now, but what occurs to me is
I come across such what appears to be opposites, but they may just be complementary at a level
that, you know, that I'm not familiar with, because it's not discussed enough. I mean,
you and me are like, what you're writing so rare, you know, but it's so appealing, right?
And I would be even better if there were a few more people who could engage at your level so that
there can be interaction on it, you know, not just pedantic interaction as to what do you mean
and what do you mean, but like, you know, people doing their own homework, right? And then reflecting
and then, you know, passing and, you know, weaving. Or actually, you know, or actually initiating
projects. Ah, even better. Fantastic. Like doing stuff together. Yeah, that's what I want to do.
I mean, I'm good at quarreling people together, you know, like a lot of people, because of low
confidence, you know, I like to say, Oh, I don't understand. I don't know where to start. Come,
come, come, you know, because how did this really just look, we can take them to nursery school.
If that's the case, we can do very simple exploratory stuff together so that they get a
taste for the water. We don't have to throw them in the water. They don't have to become,
you know, mercenaries or something. Right. We just introduce them to the water a little bit
at a time and say, Hey, are you comfortable here? Okay, let's go to the next step.
Beautiful. You know, we can learn together how to do this in the same way your mother attended
the mind of your childhood.
Right. We can start out with the presumption that we're all intelligent, playful, creative human
beings together. And then we can just make simple moves, you know, like a kid learning how to stand
up. Right. We can do it. We can do it. It's not hard to do. Humans naturally are good at this.
You can get them doing this kind of thing. I think. Yeah, no, you're right. You're right.
You're right. I mean, I do have a small group I experiment with.
You know, we try some actual stuff. I'm not just talking.
And I'm not, I guess, I'm afraid of being pedantic. I want to be active, not pedantic.
Okay. You, you want to be substantial. I mean, you want to fail. I want to do it.
I never mind. I mean, you know, yeah, let's fail. As long as we're doing something, no problem.
Yeah. That's it. That's it. That's it. And I'm, as you were mentioning it, I was thinking of the
school in my village and the kids and the teachers. I wonder about that. That must be amazing.
What's that like? Have you been in there? Have you been in a classroom? Do you know
how they relate with the children? The, the, the school is not good. The school is not great.
It doesn't open them, but they're not bad compared to other schools as well. They're not too
kind of like a nannish or monitor, you know, like that's very strict. They're not that either.
But on the other hand, they don't, they don't allow for any creativity. They want them to follow
the rules and, you know, and then, yeah, it sounds typically Western.
Or worse. Yeah. Regimented. Yeah. Regimented. So, but when the kids come out of school,
back to their villages and sit back and all that, to me, they're learning a lot when they're playing
and when they are with their families, they're imitating their doubts. They're preparing,
because, you know, parents are preparing to somebody's wedding or feast. They're helping
out and they're watching, watching all people and parents are also going to the, to the plot
of land and, you know, planting rice. They're helping the parents with planting the rice and
turning to the garden and stuff like that. Overall, the apprenticing,
the bigger role for them is not what I go to school and then after school, I'm going to get a job.
No, the bigger thing is like, in the case of the girls, right? Oh, I'll be, I'll be a mother, right?
So, they become good mothers, right? And they become good healers of old taking care of people.
They seem to learn. Yes, because it is traditional to take care of each other.
Yeah. Yeah. Right. So, we, we just need to expand that to, because expand that to, hey,
whether you choose to do it at home or you choose to do a bigger thing, meaning two
villages, right? There's medical things or even computers or all the other things that you need
to do with them in today's world, right? It's not, you'll get bullied by countries that do,
you know, with weapons, right? You've got all, you've got to act together to a level
that you are able to defend yourself too. You make enough, you're productive enough,
like you're making enough returns so that's enough of your people can be soldiers like they were,
like societies were. I know, but now we'll come the malware. I'm afraid once
it's like it comes with the police and the soldiers to have soldiers, you have money problems,
you need money. Now, what will happen to the village? I am afraid. I hear you though,
please continue with your thought. I see. So, good, good. I like your candidness,
because you know what, what it is, when you mentioned that, you know, one thing,
one, I agree, you know, well, pay attention to that, you're right. What do we do about,
how do we anticipate? The other thing that comes to me is, you know,
when the societies were very strong, the villagers didn't have police, but they had
plain clothes, intel, they didn't need any arms to have the strongest villages,
because they were able to anticipate. Some more like, you know, in nature, how is it that there
is quite a lot of law and order in a tropical forest? I mean, we think of.
Actually, there's not law and order. I'm not sure that there's a lot of, well,
maybe I'm not understanding you properly yet. I'm not sure there's a lot of law and order.
There's a lot of non, not defecting, but go ahead. Do you mean law and order between the
insects and the plants and the animals? Do you mean that, that kind of law, or between tribes?
No, I mean, between the 10,000 species.
Oh, yeah. Yeah, I just, I mean, there's something there, but I don't think it's law and order,
it's intimacy. Right. It's one animal in a billion bodies.
Hmm. So they don't defect from intimacy,
therefore no laws are required and there are no orders.
So, you see, like, they can share the same, I mean, like, you have birds, and you have inside,
yes, lizards, and the tree, and they can have, like,
it's kind of like unawaresly, you share the space.
Yes. Yep. But if the lizard gets hungry, the, the insect better move.
If the bird gets hungry, yeah.
All of that. But you know, like, when you're, when you're walking through a forest, whatever,
that seems like a minority, you know, like, the exception is, right?
Yes.
Yeah, they, they, who do you think, and so, but that is not the, that's not,
versus, in the case of human beings, we've made it like the capital issue and it,
it's not just, we've made it, it really is a big deal that we, we've gone downhill, you know.
Yes.
No, we're collapsing toward the worst potentials of our species, rapidly, together.
We're all contributing to this collapse actively, instead of doing any other thing.
And mostly, I think it's because, A, we don't know what to do,
and B, it doesn't pay as well. Thankfully, now I'm old enough, I don't care.
I want to do something meaningful. If I have to pay to do something meaningful, fine, let's go.
You know.
Okay, okay, okay.
Yeah, I want to, I want to run the experiments.
Darren, this model that you have, right, would you, do you think it has to be done in the U.S.,
or it can be done in another country, or it can be done.
It would be very, be very radical to be done somewhere else.
But yeah, it could be done anywhere.
In fact, I argue, I would argue that it's basically what nature usually is up to.
If you just observe nature, she's doing this set of things that humans could do really well
together, and they naturally do it really well together, wherever that isn't captured or interfered
with. Okay, okay, okay.
But yeah, the system, as a system, it could be done anywhere.
It can be done with existing technology. It would change.
I honestly, I don't believe, if we could actually produce what I have in mind,
I don't think governments would last another four years.
We can do something so much better than governments that I'm really shocked.
Nobody's had the idea to do that.
Okay, great, great.
Basically, you can envisage the model that you have in mind, and I can imagine,
the model you have in mind, and within it, teams of five, for example, doing problem solving
and add it together, right?
Yeah, they can synergize with other teams easily.
In fact, they're highly motivated to synergize with other teams.
Essentially, there's a kind of money, which is something more like fulfillment,
that we can pay the humans.
And they can also make money with the analytics they produce,
without those analytics being traced to them personally, so that they can have privacy.
Fantastic, fantastic, because that's what I mean, in like in Indonesia, they like that.
They pretty much want that, because they're not totally free from their
military phobia.
Yes, for good reason.
Eventually, the soldiers will come.
They may not be here today, but someday, they are coming.
Everyone knows this, all the old people know it.
So, on Facebook and stuff, all of them don't use their own names.
Right, why would you use your own name?
It doesn't make any sense, for most purposes.
It's dangerous.
Darren, were you in the Internet when there wasn't any web and stuff that was just mailing lists?
I'm a computer technician.
I've been working with computers since 1981.
I have done some programming.
I watched the birth of the Internet.
A long ago, in the beginning, we used to have what were called bulletin board systems.
Yes, BBS is, you dial up with it.
You'd have a 1200 or 2400 bot modem.
You'd dial up with a modem.
You'd have some sort of a validation exchange with the server.
And then, you were a user on a BBS.
Most of those were used for sharing cultural objects.
Art, porn, computer programs, games, particularly, media.
Why I asked, Darren, I was trying to get all of this, the early days of the Internet,
and pretty much, there wasn't any pseudonyms in the mailing list.
And maybe the soft culture.
Wait, are you sure?
In what BBSs were, was it not pseudonymous?
Because you had user names.
Yeah, BBSs had user names.
Oh, in the beginning of the Internet.
Yeah.
Oh, yes.
Mostly true.
Campus background, maybe because of the economic background, perhaps.
Because at that time, I was working for a company, IP shop in Toronto.
And I saw the value of us being able to recognize this guy.
And I was like, oh, you didn't see.
You know?
Yes, yes.
In a trustworthy situation, well, you'd still probably want the option of pseudonyms.
But in a trustworthy situation, you'd use your primary name.
Yep.
I imagine.
Although, with Indigenous cultures, I didn't have names like Bob or Tony.
And their names would change under certain conditions.
It seems to me.
Like if you marry into a new, yeah, there's lots of conditions that would change your name.
And why do you mention it?
So, okay, let me make sure I'm hearing you.
So you're saying something like, I remember conditions under which it was very useful to know
precisely who I'm speaking to, no masquerading.
Were you saying something like that?
Going to the heart of the matter, just like you said.
The speaker should not be split from the speech stage value.
Right, yeah.
Yeah, I mean, on the other hand, there's 10 different people inside me.
And it's not because I'm schizophrenic.
I'm human.
So now what?
Must all of them bear the responsibility for the voice of any of them?
Well, I don't know.
I'm not saying yes or no.
I'm just saying.
It's a complicated question, right?
Like I want to actually entertain the question.
Yeah, yeah.
I think one of these is for enough, for some, for enough things, maybe all, you know what,
maybe at the ethical things, we want to, the issue is where do we want accountability?
And where do we want this?
And I would say that
most of the time when we want accountability,
something has gone really badly wrong already.
Right, like, yeah, by the time we need accountability, relational intimacy is broken down dramatically.
Why don't you want the exploratory and why do you want them to wait till they are sure
before they open their mouth?
Why don't you want them to come in to the intonations?
Then why don't you have language that explicitly allows, enables that?
Yes, yes.
The worst thing, it's not the old, this isn't the only truth, but a fundamental principle is like,
once human cognition becomes oriented toward indicting someone or something,
it breaks down.
It's no longer very intelligent.
It's making a mess.
Vulnerability of the space, the spacemen allow for a lot of vulnerability.
Yes, yes, yes.
I mean, that's more brilliant than what I would say.
That's really brilliant what you're saying there.
You're saying it's crucial that we allow the play, the natural play of explorative learning
and discovery and making mistakes and getting it wrong.
And all kinds of other things that disappear once.
It should be children ready.
What a brilliant thing, you buy it with your expansion, you made it for me.
Darren, when you said that.
Yeah, it was you, the brilliant one.
You were the one who said this first.
I only tried to see what you were saying.
I was like, no, he's saying something even more radical than what you're saying, Darren.
What I was saying was, by the time you're interested in indictment,
you've lost most of your intelligence.
And I find this to be true of myself.
But you said something crazier.
You were like, in an actually trusted relational context, the free play of mistake
doesn't lead and experiment and discovery and learning doesn't lead to judgment.
It leads to mutual benefit or something like this.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah, that's crazy.
You're not allowed to say that.
Who told you you could say things like that?
You mustn't go around saying things like that.
The humans will get ideas.
So that's it, you know, like, what are you doing?
Yeah.
Basically, hey there, right?
Play essentially allow the kids to teach you.
Yes.
Hey, this is how we do it.
This is how we dig a hole or how we catch a tadpole.
Come, you know, teachers have been stopping us.
And we, you go inside there and say, you can laugh or whatever the teacher has been.
Can you give us a break?
I mean, kind of like, ah, you make the club something, you know, distract her
while you go back to learning from the kids.
And then maybe producing some outcomes and make the tea that the old school teacher happy to.
Yes, exactly.
Right.
Yeah, you can please the old guard and innovate at the same time.
Right.
Doesn't have to be pure rebellion.
Right.
Yeah, you can please, you can please tradition and still innovate.
Yep.
Yep.
And so long as you're becoming patient, you're persistent,
it should yield a better, the better result, the better outcome for everybody.
No, absolutely.
Yes, patience.
Yeah.
This doesn't have to be done in the next 10 seconds.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Okay.
That would work.
Yeah.
That would work.
Right.
Because the kids are smart too, you know, and they're kind of like forced to
accept the status quo and the teachers to like finding maybe too difficult
because they're all busy to too much of an accent to how they have to do this.
Kind of the modern world results in the too many little details, too many chores in a way.
Do you sense that?
Do you sense that is part of the reason why the change is slow and all doesn't happen?
No, the problem is worse.
The problem is that the new teachers should be free to grow along with the children
instead of to dictate the direction of growth to the children.
And they know nothing but to dictate.
That's it, you know.
They're trained to dictate.
In English, I make a joke about this.
I'm like, it's like a person holding a hard penis and they keep pointing it at you.
They're dictating.
I know it's a very crude joke, but yeah, in English, that's a reasonable pun.
And it makes sense.
It's like they're hitting you over the head with the hardened member of authority.
No one likes that.
And it's a shitty job.
Like no teacher would want.
No teacher would ever act that way or want that if they were having the experience of
learning and growing with the children and there and nobody's going to tell me that we
can't produce that.
We got the teacher on site.
We got the kids on site.
You got them together.
You should be able to pull off miracles.
It might take you a little while to figure out how, but don't tell me you can't.
I've seen it done.
I've participated in it in schools where I had a teacher who was like,
we're going to take the one kid in this class you can't write at all.
And we're going to get that kid writing essays that are powerful and blow people away.
I mean, here's a secret that'll blow your mind.
In 1990, or something, no way, two probably, I took an English class.
I hadn't been in school since I was 12.
I never went to high school.
I'm a self-educated person.
I took an English class because I'm a writer.
And the teacher asked me to teach the class for them next semester, so I did.
And what I discovered was pretty amazing.
So there were about 90 kids.
They ranged in age from 16 to 26.
We had three classes of about 30 kids apiece.
They were mostly upper middle class white kids.
Most of them were like B, B plus average coming into junior college from high school.
Okay.
Of those 90 American kids in a wealthy suburban town,
four of them could reasonably produce a written sentence in their only language.
And two of them could compose a paragraph.
Wow.
Now, those kids sucked at understanding the old or speaking or writing, the only language they speak.
They were abysmal at it.
And I was blown away because I was, I'm hyperlexic.
I have a natural affine relationship with language, and particularly English.
I've been that way since I was very little.
So for me, this was staggering and shocking.
I was like, I expected them to have more education than I had, and they had catastrophically less education than I had.
Though they had been, right, they had been in school an additional six years compared to me.
And kind of like, you know, somewhat role model parents too, yeah?
I suppose, I don't know.
I mean, is literacy, my parents weren't particularly intelligent, but they did read books, and they did read books to me.
And I think my parents were frightened a little bit.
I know my mom was, I don't think so.
But my mom was scared because, I remember, I mean, I was reading science fiction novels when I was five, maybe earlier.
Who brought them to you?
My parents, I told them what I wanted.
Oh, how did you know?
So like, I had seen advertisements for 2001 and Space Odyssey when I was watching Star Trek, and I knew what the book was about, and I read science fiction stories already, myself.
I could read them by myself.
So I asked my mom to get me that book, and she's like, that's a grown-up book.
And I was like, I want that book.
That's the book I want to read.
So then I got it, and I read it, and my parents ended up reading it.
And in a way, I was kind of educating them, because I had a lot of books.
Eventually, I became a book thief.
That's a story for another time.
I only still books to read them, though.
I didn't steal, like, valuable books and sell them.
I just, I stole books to read them.
When I was a runaway.
So I didn't have a lot of books.
I just, I didn't have a lot of books to read, but I was a little bit of a big fan.
sell them. I just, I stole books to read them. When I was a runaway. So I didn't have any
access. Yeah, when I was a runaway, I used to steal books to read them.
You said earlier that, you know, self taught yourself from 12 years old. Like,
that would have been like, almost unheard of, isn't it?
No, there are, there are, okay, especially these days. It's different now. There are a lot of
children who are, there's a cohort of young people who naturally become self educating
to varying degrees. Some of them become prodigies. Some of them become nobody's,
right? Some of them just disappear. Some of them go mad because they're lonely.
But yeah, there's like, I know a couple other, every once in a while, someone will sniff me out
and they'll approach me and they'll go like,
when did you, you know, what were you reading when you were a child? And I'll say science fiction.
And they're like, how about when you were little? And I'll say science fiction. And they'll go like,
yeah, that's what I thought.
Because like recently somebody sniffed me out and they were like, you're one of,
you're just like me, you're a feral, you're a feral kid who lived in the wilderness and you're
someone who's read a few thousand books and not two.
And they recognize the fingerprint of my mind, right? And I recognize there is when we have
conversations, it's like, I'm talking to my twin or something. It's ridiculous.
Yeah, there are kids that are like that. I imagine all over the world.
All over the world. But like, say, if you were like, if you were not going to school,
were you still at home? I ran away from home. Wow. No, I ran away. I lived in the forest.
Really? I lived in the forest in the Russian river. Yeah. In California.
Wow. I mean, you just find it hard to believe that people would do that in a first world country.
That's why. Number two, I would have thought that the comfort, I mean, you want a mix of the two,
not just being in the forest, but was home that bad that you didn't miss it?
I would have been killed if I stayed in that town.
Wow. I became like, by most like the home. Other young troublemakers like myself, hoodlums.
I went from being like a straight A student to being a little bit of a hoodlum.
And where I was living in Stockton, things were pretty bad there, even though we lived
in the good part of town. And I eventually ended up in various kinds of trouble with
young criminals. Now, it's not as serious as like gang life is, that's, it's really serious.
This is pretty very minor compared to that. But yeah, I basically, I realized that if I stay there,
I was 13. I realized if I stay here, I will either end up in prison or dead.
So given that belief, anything's better than either of those outcomes, pretty much anything.
So even just like, like living outside is better. So eventually I made it out. It took a few attempts.
Wow. And then you were able to be out for for years on stretch? Yeah, I came home in like the
last half of 17. So I was out for three and a half, something like that.
Okay. Okay. Wow. Your parents, I mean, your parents would have been like,
I mean, both sad and mad, no?
Especially, I mean, this is very personal. But
my mom was relatively indifferent. And I ran away to near where she was living.
Because it was by visiting her that I realized that there was this enclave in the forest where
it was a bunch of basically old hippies. So there was like this enclave and it was very
richly cultural unlike where I was living, which was like zero culture, like dead culture.
So yeah, I wanted, I wanted the culture. I couldn't access the culture because I wasn't an adult.
But I didn't want to be in Stockton anymore, you know, trying to figure out how to steal cars with
my buddy so we could get some weed or whatever the fucking, you know, agenda was.
Yeah, I just, I didn't want to be in that place anymore. And I did not get along with my dad
who I was living with. So I went to the forest and, you know, some adults helped me.
I made it through okay. Nothing horrible happened to me while I was on the street.
I hitchhiked around, you know, didn't eat much food. A lot of fasting.
Oh, yeah. But I hitchhiked through the U.S. really months. Wow. Wow, that's crazy.
Yeah, it was fun. Yeah, that's, that's really intense. In what year were you hitchhiking? I mean,
I'm hitchhiking in like the late 70s, early 80s. Mine was 1980s from January.
Oh, wow. Yeah, not, not at this similar time. Let's see how old was I in 80s?
But, you know, it's quite, it was fun. I mean, it was a different experience. I mean,
it was a rich experience. I stood out, you know, like a sore thumb. Yeah. Well,
in the south, right, it was like impossible to get a ride. Right. Yeah. Yeah. And we learned
some chords and stuff. So I said, hmm, how do I overcome this? I've got to find a white guy.
To hitchhike with. Yeah, brilliant. Yeah, you have to hitchhike by first hitch,
you have to racially hitchhike before you vehiculatively hitchhike. Right?
Yeah, that's hilarious. Oh my god. Yeah. I came across the really solid guy. I mean,
my hair was long, right? And there was this guy, I was on my way first just to go to a New Orleans
for Mardi Gras. Hey, talk about that. You know, we're talking about a very opportune
pertinent time because Mardi Gras is going to be happening soon in now to about this time of the
year, right? 1980. Yeah. Oh, yeah. Before. Yeah. Okay. So I want to go to New Orleans, you know.
And then so I with my buddy, I'd reached up to Atlanta, right? From college, hitchhiking with
him to Atlanta. So I was in Atlanta, I thought, hi, to New Orleans. Three days day in, day out,
I go to the exit, you know, which is a bit of a, it's not that easy to go from downtown Atlanta,
like Salvation Army or something like that. To the exit. So anyway, three days and I couldn't
get it right. Nobody was stopping me. So I said, okay, I'll take a greyhound to New Orleans. I go
to New Orleans. And that was heaven for me. There was like the hobos and the hippies from everywhere
for Mardi Gras. And that guy looked like Jesus Christ, you know, hair. Yeah. The oldest and
self-blown hair. Brilliant. I mean, he didn't guru for him. Because we got along really,
really quite well, like, you know, house on fire. So, yeah, he had been hitchhiking for like 10
years, you know. So with him, the world was a different world, you know, because people would
stop for him, right? I would be like back, back a bit in the back. And then when the class stopped,
around, you know, and people would say, you're safe enough. So it's good, right? I went all around,
quite a bit of time in Boulder, Colorado, and Kansas City, where his home was. And then I wanted
to, following the Grateful Dead, I was wanting to follow, you know, to Mount McKinley in Canada,
but got stopped at the border. The Canadians wouldn't let me in. So no passport. Yeah. No.
Yeah. My, I had a passport. It was best in all that. So all was good. You know,
I went to university in Virginia, Charlottesville, right? Oh, yeah. After my university. But the
student visa runs out. After you are a student, you know, the visa has got a termination date.
So when I, my plan was to go to, to the concert, you know, the last, Grateful Dead concert happens
in like the equinox or something of that sort, you know. No, the one of those dates, yeah. Well,
the day when there's the largest amount of light in Alaska. Anyway, and I would come back
because the flight was out of Seattle, but the Canadians said, no, no, no, your visa, your,
your, your American visa is over. So they won't let you back into America. So since they won't
let you back into America, we can't let you into Canada. I see. I did not need a visa to Canada,
Canada being in the Commonwealth, Malaysia is in the, there was no need for a Malaysian to
have a visa to enter Canada. Oh, I see. Yeah. You know, but it was on the grounds that I wouldn't
be allowed to leave. I wouldn't be, you know, if it, if my basis was I was flying out of Seattle,
I wouldn't be allowed to enter. And in that case, I would have not had enough money and whatever.
It's pretty obvious. Canada can stop me from entering Canada, not on the grounds that I don't
have a visa, right? But on the grounds that do you have enough money to sustain yourself when you're
in Canada? Yeah. So that's reasonable in pretty much all the world, countries all over the world
have environment, right? Exactly. I didn't prepare for that because on the thing that, you know,
I am just going to come to the concert, come back, right? Get on my plane and I'm home.
I don't want to be here. I mean, you have a short term goal.
You know, you have a short term goal. I'm sorry, go ahead. Yeah. So yeah, me not realizing
immigration things in a black and white, you know, very strict way, that's pretty much the
half tool. Yeah. But me, it didn't fully occur to me, you know, because you know, in my head,
I worked out I'm still in America because I'm going to Alaska, man.
Right. But it doesn't, it didn't register in my head that, you know, hey, you are,
doesn't matter what you think. It's so funny you say that. It's really funny that you say that
because I was just thinking about when I was a runaway and when I was hitchhiking.
I was so naive that it literally didn't occur to me even slightly
that I might want to be careful because what sort of an adult picks up a 13-year-old boy on the
side of the road. Yes. Never even occurred to me that I was filtering the adults. Right.
And I'm filtering them in a specific direction. Right. Which is has some interest in a 13-year-old
kid. Now, thankfully, only, I don't know how many times I was near trouble,
but only twice did I actually get close to trouble. Oh, I see. And both times I was able to
avoid them. Yes. Both times I was able to resolve the situation by acting tough.
Okay. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Guys like drives past my stop and I'm like, hey, my sauce back there and
he's not, not speaking to me and it's late at night and we're out in the middle of nowhere.
I just basically said, I will cut your fucking head off with my pocket knife. I will stab you
right now in the neck if you don't pull this car over. And he was like, boop, car over. I got out.
Oh, wow. Oh, so did you actually have a knife then? Yes, I did.
Oh, good. I used to carry a dagger, actually, little dagger.
You're not that naive then? I was. It's just that in this case, I realized,
like, okay. Yeah, I can still be, I can still be very naive.
I'm not cunning the way some people are cunning. And I honestly, it never once occurred to me
that most of the people that would like, that most of the people that would stop for a kid that
looked like me would probably have ulterior motives, or at least a goodly, you know, some
portion of the people, right? Never occurred to me one time. Not once. Is it because, okay.
Darren, when I was in the US too, right, like,
I mean, the country was a different country in the sense that I would have thought
it's nowhere as dangerous as it is now, maybe? Me, I would agree. Yeah. Also, I was in a strange
subcontext, right? I was in the Russian River. So there's a lot of, basically, the three primary,
okay, this is gonna be really bad, I'm gonna say here, but the three primary populations there
were rednecks, homosexuals, and hippies. And the hippies and the homosexuals got along fine.
The rednecks hated both the other camps pretty much, though, got along better with the hippies than
the gay people. So that was the context there. And obviously, you know,
yeah, I could have gotten a lot of trouble, but I never did. I never did. No one ever hurt me.
So growing up, I mean, after the age of leaving home, you hadn't been exposed to the dangers of
such dangers as much. No, not at all. I was catastrophic. You have no idea how naive I was.
In your wildest estimations, you will underestimate my naivety.
I was, you know, yeah, I was, I was very intelligent and skillful in certain ways.
But my God was I naive. It's just one of the failings I've always had, yeah.
It never, okay, look, let me be really clear about this so you can understand the depth.
Not only did it never occur to me that I was attracting the people who would have some
interest in a 13-year-old boy ever. It never occurred to me. Not only that. It never occurred
to me that it didn't occur to me until just now. 40-something years later, 50 years later.
It never occurred to me that it didn't occur to me until this conversation today.
That's how naive I am.
I never realized that I didn't realize until just now.
Yeah, it's not bad.
You know, to me in my, when I got rights there, when I started getting rights and stuff,
the people who were picking us up was so generous. That's made a big difference and innocent.
You know, usually it'd be like small town somewhere and they're throwing some weed and
deers at the back. Yeah, some of that too.
And all beautiful it was, right? Beautiful it was. I mean, nowhere else in the world,
I think, I mean, I, would you get that? No, because, yeah, it's true because the
counterculture in the United States at that time was still kind of blossoming a little bit.
And how old were you? Were you like 18, 19, were you like 20 or something?
Yeah, I would have been 21. Okay, yeah, yeah, perfect. So,
you know, you present to the drivers obviously
something they might find fascinating and adventurous to some of them.
So that works in your favor. But yeah, it was pretty good. Like, most people were very kind.
Some people gave me money or brought me food.
Some people asked me, you know, like, how do you survive? They were curious.
Occasionally, like if it was raining or something, somebody would be like, hey,
you can just crash at our place if you want, you know. And obviously that could be very dangerous,
but never turned out to be, not once. Because, I mean, I was 22, so it didn't,
that occurred, didn't occur to me, you know. And it happened to me. I was least
concerned about, I mean, I didn't even get there. To me, it's like, how do I get it right? I want
to get the money. Yeah, that's all I was concerned with too. I was just like, how do I get to where
I'm going? I wasn't thinking about why someone would or wouldn't stop to pick me up. In other words,
there was no, there was no meta reflection, right? There was no metacognition about, yeah,
yeah, no metacognition about my circumstance. Whereas you must have had some by your age.
Yeah, I mean, more, I mean, but, you know, violence wasn't, you know, like, you didn't have
the school shootings. You didn't? Yeah. Yeah, the malware wasn't concentrated yet.
Yeah, you know, and, you know, say, for example, you know, people may say, okay, you know,
you know, blacks are dangerous or whatever, but dangerous to me. Right. You know, I'm almost
black, you know. Right, exactly. So, you know, yeah, they're more likely to see you as an ally
than as an enemy or prey. Yeah. And, and I wanted to try it. I desperately, I had to,
you know, because part of that was the American equivalent of you being a sadu, you know, of you
being like, you know, that's funny. Yeah, I got you. Right. Yeah. That's a hilarious way of saying it.
Like you're, you're a, yeah, it's the American version of you're a holy man or something.
Oh, no, you have faith in nature. Oh, you have faith. I see. I see that. Come on, don't be
Yeah, that's what I had actually. That is what I had back then in a way.
I had faith that it was possible to be myself without a house, without a roof,
without money, without food, with nothing. I knew that, you know, money would be an issue. So I had
to watch out and, you know, you know, in our places we stopped and anyway, we made it because
we could get jobs in some places and, oh yeah, a little short term jobs, especially in Boulder,
Colorado, right? I remember in 4th of July, around about 4th of July, I was there, it was snowing,
right? In Boulder, Colorado, then, you know, it was a bit of a surprise, but that was a good
climate. I mean, they had a, you know, like a job placement for tramps and hobos, you know,
but because I was with this guy called Bernie, Bernie McBug, forget his last name now. Well,
Bernie McGraw, yeah, Bernie McGraw, yeah. So he knew the ins and outs, you know, where you go and
get food stamps and where you get your jobs, right, and stuff like that. So I went rather quickly,
got a, after 4 days, I got a job as a dishwasher in Boulder, right? And that was, you know, that
was fun. And the pay you get compared to what you need is like a great, because it was staying in
like a, ah, in Boulder, after a while, was staying in like an abandoned house in the
edge of a river, kind of like in a forest, right? So we had sleeping bags and stuff like, rather
winter proof sleeping bags, so managed, that was good, you know, there were other people, later we
got, we met some people and we lived in the house for a while. Very liberal, I mean, very
truly liberal place Boulder was when I was there, you know. Oh yeah. Very, very generous, you know.
The first day I remember to burn, I remember to, Darren, I must tell you this, right?
I already, I had rather little money, like $25 or something like that, and I had a camera and
stuff. And my buddy was hitchhiking with me, he said, Bala, let me borrow your camera, okay.
And then he goes and fonts in fucking, you know, he's a whole, and so because of that,
that, I remember that one, that day, I had no more money. I had no more money and I didn't have a
camera. And I was like, hmm, how am I going to solve this? Well, this is this, I've got to,
I've got to learn this, and I've got to learn how to be without any money. So I walk along
at the street, Pearl Street in Boulder, you know, it's a downtown one street that is
walk only, no cars, right? So anyway, walk and I just signboard, right, on the side of a building.
And he said, Naropa Buddhist Institute.
Me, you know, wow, this is like, next to bumfuck US, you know, because I've been in Kansas,
because it's like, up, I mean, so I'm not even Kansas City, Salina, Kansas by the highway.
This is like, for me, it's like, nowhere. And how come it's got a Buddhist Institute? This is my
thing. This, this is my, you know, like, my culture, the culture. Yeah. In the middle of America,
so I said, I have to go upstairs. So I go up and I see, you know, there's two guys and stuff.
And I strike a conversation and they're so wonderful. They offered, you know, one of the guys
offered his place for me to stay in because his buddy was had gone off somewhere. So those,
they can see, so come and stay with me and stay at my place. And it was great, you know. Beautiful.
All the whole thing was beautiful. And Seattle, my last stop was fantastic. You know, after,
by the time I reached to like Seattle and stuff, I'm on my own. But I was walking, you know, I
get, I was walking and this guy in a pickup truck, you know, comes past me, stops, winds his window
down, looks at me and says, are you going somewhere? And I, can I take you? I was like, wow, because
you know, they were, they could see me. And I'm like, wow, it was great. It was because I,
I, to me, the folks then in Seattle were like a great above the rest of the world. They were like
really friendly to hikers. It is actually, okay, there is something weird about
how to put this. So I have not traveled much. I've mostly only been in Central and Northern
California throughout my entire life. I've been basically nowhere. But a couple times I traveled,
a couple times I traveled a little bit. And I went, for example, to Oregon or Washington State.
And I don't know, I think, I think that because I'm not well traveled, I probably have a
a distorted sense. But the people in Oregon were very different. The people in Washington were
very different. It may be that it does actually seem to me that places have something that resembles
the personality and that the humans in those places reflect that. Does that make any sense?
Yeah, yeah, yeah. I mean, the outside is something like that.
I mean, I could, yeah, yeah, because the man made pretty much, you know, I always say this,
I know this quite well, because I go to India often on, I've gone to India quite a lot. And
they're forever complaining about the outside, no place to dirty and this and this. Let's say it's
a manifestation of the sum of the minds, you know, in Chennai. It's true. Yeah, I mean,
in Hindu culture, there are words for these things. In English, there are not.
In Sanskrit, there are words for these, these matters, right? You have a culture that's like,
I don't know, 8,000 years older than ours. And the white people think they're intelligent.
What? You guys even, like, you guys are playing with Play-Doh or something works, you know.
My son, he studies Advaita Vedanta. And I know there are words for all of these, like,
in Sanskrit and in Indian philosophy, there are, there's very complex, sophisticated language
about all the different features of, you know, anything you might want to refer to in consciousness
at all. It's very interesting compared to how it is in English. It's so much richer and more
intelligent in some ways. You remind me of one thing. I was talking to another buddy who might
join us, who's a good candidate to join our team. I must ask you to hold. I'm getting an important
call. Okay. Oh, it's too late. I missed it. It's all right. Okay. Oh, I see. I see. Okay.
Okay. Maybe I'll talk about that. And we'll, we can continue another day, right? We've been
long enough. There's a word there. And, you know, the word we are looking for is like
sensibility, meaning, you know, the, what is it that we're looking? What is it that we're trying
to get artificial intelligence to do? Intelligence. What is intelligence? You know, acumen, you know,
but they seem that the Western world seems to not want to talk about the world, the word,
which is even more clear in Indian language and Tamil and some of our local languages. It's called
Bhutti. Bhutti, yeah. Bhutti, yeah. You know, Buddha's name comes from that. Buddha is not his name,
you know, but they call it like Mr. Sensible. Yeah. Yeah. So, what I see, I want to talk to you.
I mean, one word in English is equanimity. Oh, equanimity, is it? Yeah, it means not biased. You
don't, you don't collapse into extremity. You're balanced. Oh, yes. That says that. You're balanced.
Yeah. What the, I guess, what, to me, why the Western world, my trip over it is, when we talk
about sensibility and in the context, they are thinking of cognition. The world, I mean, like
such a, I mean, the Western world, when it talks about AI, it's like forever going into cognition.
And we are saying, no, the body and the mind must be both taken into account in realizing
what is the right sensible thing to see sensible or the right thing to do, which is,
which we will say is a sensible thing to do. The sensible thing to do
includes what your body means, which means instinct, right? What your instinctive reactions are,
like, because you're dealing with, for example, indigenous people, and pretty much they're running
on instinct, you know, we don't know about what cognition they have or they don't have. It doesn't
matter. They're functional people on instinct. So sensibility, the word sense, immediately implies,
you know, the five senses, for example, right? It does, yeah. More cognition. Why
had it occurred to you or does it occur to you? Why, why does the Western world not talk about
sensibility? Does someone, the question is very, the question is very broad.
Meaning, like, say, when in the AI circles and stuff, right, when you're talking about ethics
and whatever, why not say, hey, well, which of these LLMs is more sensible, takes into
own sensibility, which is different from intelligence. And I think enough people would know
that, yeah, because intelligence immediately, in a big way, kind of like,
in a slide or other, leans towards academia, you know, leans towards...
It does, but the common humans have no...
They are missing what you have. They are missing the experience of coherent daily life,
that most of whose rules don't need to be written or declared.
So what they have is something really weird. They have a thing where
all the rules are written and declared. And you have to either obey the ignorant of
or reject them. And one of the reasons why Trump is about to get elected in this country is because
the rejection crowd is really pissy at this point in history.
Everybody, all the males, all the ignorant, poorly educated males who have no fucking...
No clue about what it means to be human and yet are anyway.
They want somebody who gets away with breaking the rules and they will elect that guy if we don't,
you know, if something doesn't stop them.
And the guy...
So he's the opposite of sensibility, but he masquerades as sensible, right?
I saw some advertising with him.
Between masquerading as sensible and having to be sensible to get elected and stay there
in a way from the other prejudice.
You're not going to get elected if you're sensible.
There's no chance of that happening.
Yeah, that's... No, that's not going to happen.
You get elected not... Okay, in America, you get elected not because you're sensible,
you get elected because you're sensational.
It's a society of spectacles, right? The better your spectacle, the better the brand of spectacle
that you produce, the more likely you are to be elected.
That's sick. That's sad. I mean, and it's screwed that up so bad.
I mean, like, okay, here, let me ask you this.
Kamala Harris should not be there, should not be up there, should she?
I don't know. How would I tell? I mean, supposing I really cared, right?
How would I make the determination? Do I want a pissed-off, parapheminist
having a voice in the government? Yeah, I probably do. Her particularly, I'm not sure.
I mean, like a fly on the wall, you know what I'm saying?
I don't know Kamala Harris's talk very much. Maybe I'm actually thinking of AOC
when you said her name. At least AOC is, you know, I mean, like she's...
She's smart. Yeah, I mean...
Yeah, smart.
She, I mean, she knows how to get attention and it's not just...
She used to be good, but I think she's going downhill, right?
By the way, I've spent about 27 minutes of my life listening to politicians in 2020x.
That's something I mostly just ignore to be clear and also to be clear for posterity,
if anyone listens to this. I'm not well educated.
Okay, so and you're able to, I guess, for whatever you do, it doesn't affect you too much
or you find spots where you're not affected by, you know, you operate?
I have a simple principle at this accelerated age that I'm at. I'm almost 60, not a kid anymore.
The simple principle is try not to actively import suffering from outside.
So the news is basically all about importing suffering.
So I mostly buffer that off. I may glance at it, but I don't take it seriously,
and I rarely reflect on it.
It's mostly just me taking the temperature of modernity.
Is the apocalypse likely to happen today or next week?
Do you pay much attention to news? What's your relationship with it like?
Not much. I mean, I pay attention to the news in the last five, ten years.
Yes. Some areas I'm a bit interested in are more like world issues.
Well, I mean, like, say, India, ways, Russia, ways of hitting China to some extent.
Of course.
In a way, I want to get a, for orientation, right?
Yes.
And then being a bit more attentive, I'm still more, I would read news that touches on our area.
You know, like what I'm talking to you about, you know, getting funding, you know,
or if it's not funding, how do I go to the next step, right, from where I am?
And the next step in your village becoming a voice and making connections?
The next step in what?
And me finding a way to self-sustain it, so to fund it, you know, like when I sent you
the link to, we move us or we found us or whatever, right?
Basically, align with people who would invest in us or finance us or help us out, you know,
because we've got enough, if we have a team, enough of us have to be paid, right?
Ah, yes.
Yeah, such as the world.
So where can you get funding and who funds them and what are the requirements and
who has been successful?
That kind of news, right?
I keep up.
And then over and above that, when you see me writing, most of my writing is under,
the substrate of it is, how do we, why can't we be the same state, you know,
developed, it's called developed, why can't we be the same state, high state we were 500 or 600
years ago, right, in my neck of the woods?
And in particular, like I was saying, the villages, yeah, why?
Yeah.
All of the things, you know, zero crime, embodied currency, embodied learning, right?
Why can't we have that?
It's like, why can't we have what I had from zero to seven with an unconditional love mother,
with the high, right?
I can go and sleep and I want kids and I want my, I want the work of hundreds of generations
of my forefathers to continue instead of it going so downhill in one generation.
It has gone downhill too.
Everybody is doing it, meaning you go around with a felicit of doing crime and whatever,
just casually.
And you have some, hey, what the hell are you doing?
And they say, hey, you can't, you don't do it.
Everybody's doing it.
And I said, no, not everybody's doing it.
I'm not doing it.
Come on, you know, like for example, a lawyer, right?
Who's stealing and cheating and screwing his customer.
Hey, don't have faith in your intellect that you can do something else.
For example, we've stopped, you know, emerging.
We've stopped creating anything new for 600 years.
Why didn't we do part of that?
That needs law too.
Only, I mean, the young kids, the younger people are a bit ready to listen to that.
The folks who are the lawyers and stuff, big names.
No, they're not interested in that.
They want to screw the system.
Bloody hell, I'm so, but I guess they're not born in the kind of
village and conditional love environment that I was, you know.
Look, whenever you take a cohort like lawyers or doctors or dentists or teachers,
you're going to find a large prevalence of what I'll call the worst common denominator,
which is the people who, you know, but what you're actually looking at
is a topology.
And as you come to understand the structure of the topology,
you will be able to find the people in the cohort who aren't defecting.
And those people will be excited to discover you as well.
Oh, yes, yes.
Right.
This is a moment of mutual appreciation, right?
That's long been coming.
Many of us would like the dreams of our ancestors not to be flushed down the toilet
in a single generation.
And some of us would like those dreams to be actually fulfilled.
So that's those purposes live in the hearts of humans.
And if we can awaken them, it will be very powerful and it doesn't have to be a cult.
Yep.
Yep.
It doesn't even have to be political.
It can just be human.
Yep.
And you often, you know, in your writing, you, you, you know, you, you say this,
this is an everyday thing.
Yes.
This is, this is normal.
Yes.
I think that's what those guys in the book I quoted from earlier were saying too.
They're like, we have this narrative that it's impossible to change this and that humans
are fundamentally broken.
It's not true.
They're just trapped in, why are they trapped in thinking they're broken?
So yeah, these are things that I, that I want to keep exploring and understanding better
and get people doing something around, right?
Experimenting, play, grow, learn, discover, remember, remember how we can be.
Yeah.
I'm trying to, you know, in my own way.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Okay.
Good.
Good.
So, you know, between Indonesia and San Francisco, you know, I'll, on this, you know, formulate
some more what, what steps we can take, right, making this happen.
Yes.
We let us, let us bookmark that for our next conversation, but there are some for sure.
And I'm, I'm absolutely willing to explore them together.
I just need to get some food in me.
Okay.
Good on you.
Okay.
Sorry.
No, no, it's fine.
No, this is wonderful.
I'm very, I'm very grateful and excited.
This has been profoundly educational for me.
That is beautiful.
Beautiful.
Yes.
Very new.
Okay.
Thank you.
Catch up with you.
All right.
Our blessings, my friend.
We will talk again soon.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
Okay.
Bye for now.
