Hey everybody, it's kind of funny how I start my videos right? I greet everybody. Of course
I have no idea. Really, I know one or two of the people who occasionally pay attention
to my videos. Well, maybe I know 5 or 6 or 10 or something. I know some number of them.
So I just greet everybody. I make a general hello. And, you know, I'm really grateful
to the people who watch my videos, not because I profit. As most of you are aware, I don't
allow advertising on my videos. Advertising is actually something I despise morally, ethically,
aesthetically, intellectually, viscerally. It's one of the... but I'm sort of grateful to it in some
ways. It's instructed me what to avoid in many cases. But yeah, I think advertising is one of
the terrifying evils of our modern age. Of course, there are thousands, and I'm not sure
exactly how high up on the chart advertising is. I am once more in the botanical gardens and the
children's garden. And I've noticed a number of bug type insects. A bug is a particular,
although we use it as a general term for insects, it's a particular sort of class of insect forms.
And I've noticed some on the pavement. When I'm not making videos anyway, I'm less good at it
when I'm making videos because I can't easily pay close attention to my footfalls. As I discovered
a little while ago when I stepped right onto a yellow jacket nest, I can't as easily pay attention
to both my footfalls and the camera, which is inside my... a thing we oxymoronically refer to as
a smartphone, something that actually makes us dumber. And this is a common human foible. We
don't notice when we get things like backwards is close enough to forwards that we're willing to go
along with it. Of course, the idea wasn't really that the phone would make us smarter. And originally,
it was called a cell phone due to, although that's even more terrifying. And there is, you know,
there's something going on here with us and how we name things that ordinary people are not aware
of. Schizophrenics are too aware of and creatively minded people find remarkable and perhaps non-toxically
fascinating. Whereas the schizophrenic fascination, wow, this old owl pellet. Oh, wait, that's not
the owl pellet. That's actually... wow, that's really interesting. So I know the origin of this
stain here. And it's more than six months old. This is where most likely a coyote vomited up the
coyote version of a owl or raptor pellet. I'm going to show you one of these bug creatures that
I'm talking about. I've noticed that they have much better eyesight than one might suppose. In any
case, the schizophrenic, the schizophrenic for mind and mind, and we should be aware that all of us
have some degree. You know, we're all slightly Asperger's-y or bipolar and that we have, you know,
mood cycles and schizophrenic in that detail can replace the gestalt and suddenly leap out to
us as the most important thing. And we can find so much detail that the detail starts to look
a supernaturally connotated cabbage moth, I think. One of the amazing things about those creatures,
if you get to look at them while they're relaxed in flight, is that the black spots on their
wings will compose what I believe is called a lemniscate or the infinity symbol when they are
fluttering slowly enough for you to track this. Huh. Now, this is another similar thing,
but it's the one I showed you previously that I remember seeing when it was fresh because I know
where it was. And of course, one of the things where I got started here was that it's harder for
me to pay attention to my footfalls. And I tend to, you know, I'll scan the upper what I'll call
the high terrains or the birds and the flying creatures are, but I tend to be careful about
where I put my feet because I don't want to kill tiny organisms like ants and things. I'm not a
Janist. Here is a very speedy little hunting spider that has just noticed me. You probably saw it jump.
And even though as I am getting older, my eyesight is degrading and I'm having trouble reading things.
It used to be like my eyes were like magnifying glasses compared to what I have these days.
I could see very tiny detail, but I'm still quite good at picking out the signs of organism in the
terrain that I am walking, except when I'm following my smartphone. Now, a schizophrenic mind would be
very concerned that cell phones affect our cells. I, though not formally schizophrenic,
I have what some friends of mine and I are calling phrenic states, which are states we
ascribe to people who are capable of deep intellectual prodigy in part because they are
capable of abstracting themselves from the context they're in and sort of orbiting, right,
satellite like a library or constellation of ideas and perspectives and subjects and
relationships. And my friend who is working on a theory and perhaps may well write a book
is arguing. He went looking for a chink in the armor of Ian McGilchrist, one of my heroes,
because I was already writing about the topics that Ian eventually wrote a vast and brilliant
tome on in his book, The Master and His Emissary, The Divided Mind and The Making of the Western
World, if I've got the subtext correct. And my friend Dr. Baru really hated this book,
and part of why he hated it is because we'd been having a long-standing argument and I was
arguing Ian's perspective, which is essentially that our cultures are the shadows, the lethal and
deadly shadows of the left cerebral hemisphere's inclinations when divided from the balancing
aspect of the right hemisphere. Of course, unfortunately for us, the right hemisphere is
primarily apparently active or most active when we are asleep and dreaming. And the left
hemisphere can kind of clamp down on consciousness while we are awake and sort of take over the
helm of the ship, so to speak. Now, this is a very complex topic and lilacs are here. And that's
an example of switching back and forth between the intellect and what's going on right here.
In any case, my friend Kevin wants to argue that, you know, what we're going to provisionally refer
to as frenias or phrenic minds are responsible for many of what we consider to be the finest
advancements in human technology and culture and that those he's going to argue are what are
going to save us from the current situation we're in. This is an old argument. It's one we've all
heard before. I was inundated with it as a child and believed it. It was a religion. It was a thought
religion and the religion was that as we, you know, advance technologically, what we're going to do
is we're going to no longer need to enslave everybody to make consumer goods. Machines are
going to do that and we're going to solve war and we're going to eliminate disease and we'll get
to live in utopias. And while my friend Kevin's vision isn't quite so Disney-esque and by the way
Disney was one of the purveyors of this vision. Back when I was a kid, Tomorrowland was a big
deal and we were told, you know, we're going to look, we're going to not need to fight wars. We'll
be able to unite humanity in a noble, intelligent society and we'll be able to, you know, preserve
the environment and eliminate disease and have incredible education. What we got was the opposite
of all that stuff. That program was delusional and it's, I think, more delusional now than it ever
was. To make that argument circa 2020 is to be so blind as to miss the sun or really maybe
something more like the opposite of the sun. The gaping black hole of insane, disembodied
metacollectives and little groups and corporations and shit that are ripping the history and future
of life on earth to shreds along with whatever potentials for human intelligence might exist
at the group level. Now interestingly at the individual level, we have astonishing examples
of actual advancement. I was just listening to one of them, someone I find rather annoying,
slightly annoying, actually is a better phrase, because he has pet, I mean, I do too,
just to come clean, but his particular pet, well, now here's a very similar, it's not the same,
spider. Nope, it's not the same. It's just really fast like the other one. The other one had really
long forelegs. This guy has very well preserved pet and like and middies. And some of them are
entirely valid, but they are usually very personal to him. And this is both cool and weird. I'm kind
of similar. And maybe I just don't see my own, maybe I don't see my own reflection as easily as I
can see his, but I was listening to Eric Weinstein, and I'm not much of a spectator. So I don't listen
to a lot of things or watch things. Passive entertainment is really tough for me. When I'm
walking, I can deeply enjoy listening to podcasts. And I've just, because I've been very, for like
the past 20 years, I've avoided smartphones and cell phones like the plague. And even once I got one, I
avoided taking one outside with me or using it when I was outside at all until pretty recently. So I've
been listening to Weinstein's podcast, The Portal, and it's, for me, it's one of the juiciest passive
listening experiences I've ever had. Because he and his guests are absolutely brilliant, whether or
not I agree with their concerns or the direction of the conversation or anything. I learned so much
every time I listened to him. I love his vocabulary. He's so articulate. He's so broadly, deeply
educated, that I've never really come across anyone quite like him, even though I've known a few very
intelligent people, and I've been accused of being very intelligent myself on occasion. But to go back to the
topic I was starting out with, my friend Kevin, he's got this theory that he wants to attack Ian
McGilchrist's theory with. And McGilchrist's theory is that the helper, right, has overcome its own
origin, the rightful sovereign to the throne of human consciousness and social glue, coherence, the sort of the
emissary of the mind, the little part, the intellectual abstract, the guy who does abstraction
really well, the girl who does abstraction really well, has overcome and dominated and thus large
and largely subjugated and submerged the aspects of our essence and humanity and organismal nature that
must and are the rightful sovereigns of the, if we think of it as a kingdom of the throne of
consciousness, right? And this is why we have all the problems in our society. This is one of the
fundamental roots of the problems that we suffer. And I agree with him. And ancient cultures were aware of
this, the story of Cain and Abel is a story about this. There are indigenous stories about two brothers
that are very similar. Although in some cases, the Cain-like brother, left hemisphere-like brother, does not
kill its brother, they become allies. And I'm not going to go into the lateralization discussion, which I
often do. I'm just going to say that my friend's theory is that the sort of phrenic state that are
modernity is in part the result of and properly beholden to this very domination, this rather
factual domination that McGillchrist argues is toxic and catastrophic, and that without it, we'd have
never made, we wouldn't have computers and atomic bombs and smartphones and cell phones and radio waves and
all these things. And my friend seems to think that that would be a terrible tragedy. I don't, because
these things here are so far advanced beyond our machines that we will never catch up to their
complexity or intelligence ever. It's unlikely we'll ever, our species will ever be able to compose a
computer capable of a full-scale simulation of anything like the activities at the surface of an
animal cell on the atomic level. Right now, just to do the molecular level accurately, like to get
everything in there, would probably require more computing power than we've ever employed thus far.
Abstractions and technologies are not organisms. They're not intelligent. They are not, they do not
learn. They are objects. And they compete against the capacity for humans to survive and be intelligent,
at least to the degree that they appear to support and entitle our convenience. And I was thinking,
before I began this video today, I was thinking about topics that I had a couple in mind. But before I
lose my train of thought here, which I sometimes do, I personally am very concerned about the idea of
electrosmog. The schizophrenic concern that the cell phones are actually somehow employing our cells in a
mechanical, you know, in a mechanically dominated process is something I'm concerned about. And some
people will say, well, Darren, you just don't understand radio waves in a sophisticated enough way to
realize that they're not affecting your cells at all. And I will say to that person, is it not possible that you
don't understand the peculiar electromagnetic dependencies of the cell surface in protein formation? And oh
wow, the Golden Gate Bridge is making the doom sound again today. I thought perhaps they had repaired it,
but they haven't. So we have this apocalyptic hum in the background, when the wind blows apparently from the
west, and it's extremely science fiction-y. And that's an interesting coincidence, right? Because here I am
talking about, you know, problems with technology and the kind of left cerebral hemisphere-led
domination. But yeah, I would just argue that is it not possible that maybe we're both right? Because it's
certainly true that I don't understand radio wave transmission well. I don't understand what it takes to
penetrate the skin or affect cells. But what I know about our research is that we tend to just kind of gloss
over dangers in order to acquire the capacity to deploy technologies and thus profit from them. And that is
catastrophically stupid and gets us in trouble over and over and over again. And by the way, in a previous
video I think I mispronounced glycephate. I think it's actually pronounced glyphosate. And it isn't from Dow
Chemical, it's from Monsanto. One of my viewers mentioned this to me. And I like to correct, I like to be
corrected. I don't want to remain ignorant or make mistakes that I can't go back and, you know, learn from
or reframe. I don't know if you can hear it, but there's like this Tibetan bell sound that dominates the city
for miles, right? Because they added stabilizers to the bridge, but they didn't test them for their susceptibility to
produce standing wave vibrations in wind. And this is exactly the topic that I'm on right here with the radio waves
in ourselves. We don't sufficiently understand biology to be clear about what is harmful or not, except in a relatively, to
some relatively crude degree. And by relatively crude, I don't mean so crude that we can't make rational decisions. I do
mean so crude that we're bound to make terrible mistakes. And whether electrosmog is one of those or not, you know, remains to be
disambiguated. Unfortunately, we don't want to be the guinea pigs that, you know, produce the disambiguation. And one of the things
that's going on right now in our common popular culture is that there are a number of people who are claiming that what we are
calling the novel coronavirus and many of its consequences are actually the results of environmental toxicification,
electrosmog, and similar kinds of things. So they're saying it's not a virus, it's an environmental syndrome.
Now, it's weird how difficult it is to tease apart these two things, because there certainly is a viral pathogen.
But the origin of that pathogen is, in a sense, precisely the thing that the people who are arguing there isn't one,
well, not precisely. It qualifies, right, as an environmental, as a result of human environmental misbehavior,
catastrophically, you know, rapacious, malignant misbehavior over decades, right, at least, that we've been wiping out the
megafauna for thousands, tens of thousands of years. Wow, the bridge is really ringing. It's really intensely ringing.
So, probably there's truth to both things, although we can associate causal validity to a specific array of, you know,
pathologies in humans, we can associate those directly with a virus at the moment.
So far as we are able to understand, because we can't ourselves tell the difference, we depend on experts to tell us the difference.
We don't have electron microscopes in our house, it would probably be kind of scary if we did.
And most of us are not trained epidemiologists or virologists or even doctors or nurses.
So we depend on classes of, you know, people that our society has endowed with skill sets and equipment to tell us what's going on.
We can't, we don't have first hand access to the truth or the information or causes, right.
And certainly, there are environmental, there are features of the collapse of the biorelational environment on Earth caused by humans, right, anthropogenic ecological catastrophe and change,
that we are subject to the repercussions of. In fact, I would argue we are subject to the repercussions of all of those phenomenon.
However, so we have here are two different phenomenon, right.
We have the sudden emergence of a pathogen and I am going to predict that it will be discovered that that pathogen did not first emerge in China in 2019.
I'm going to predict that pathogen first emerged elsewhere, possibly as early as mid-2018.
And I will happily correct my position if the future shows me to be wrong.
But one of the things that goes on between humans and nature is that we don't catch up, right.
Our ideas and knowledge, it never catches up. Nature is a trillion years ahead of us to put it mildly.
You might think that's an exaggeration. You'll say, well, the universe isn't even that old.
Yes, well, there are other ways of thinking about time than those the humans are commonly comfortable with.
And some of those methods are very important to understand.
If you want to understand what's going on with organisms that make structures like this.
A structure that may well resemble or be an excellent analogy for states of mind.
Consciousness, awareness, memory, dreaming, experience, enthusiasm, insight, awakening, creativity.
So I am concerned about, well, concerned is the wrong word.
I am certain that while there have been astonishing advancements in technology,
and understanding and science and art, the cost is far too high.
And most of it doesn't look like progress. It looks like something that mimics progress while delivering atrocity.
If progress means more sophisticated technology, we can check that box.
If progress means more intelligent societies, we got it backwards.
Because what we're getting are societies that are actually growing more blind as our technologies and disoriented as our technologies advance.
Which is something we might expect if, for example, being buried in mechanically produced radio waves 24-7-365 isn't a good idea for organisms.
Which seems pretty fucking likely to me.
I've seen people attempt to make solid arguments against this concern, and some of them were convincing.
I still don't believe it.
So I have a pet, you know, I have a pet anguish, a pet concern, myself.
Much like I accused Eric of having. And I will admit it.
But I'd love to listen to this show. It's just, it's like vitamins for my vocabulary and my memory and my intellect and my ability to think about ideas.
It's really a wonderful thing and it seeded, it often seeds my videos as I sometimes listen to it before making them.
But it seeded my video today in a number of particular ways.
He was speaking with an economist and he himself is extremely well educated in economics.
And at the beginning of the program, he said something like, let's set the topic to the apocalypse.
And his guest said, I mean they had a complex conversation that I'm going to condense very clumsily.
But essentially his guest said, if we knew that the span of time of life was eternal, that there was no, you know, set end point or likely catastrophe.
We would not be well motivated to accomplish great things.
And this is an unusually interesting perspective that I have shared because many, a number of people that I know have said, oh shit, it's over.
We were done as humans. We fucked up. We pulled the death switch. It's over.
And to these people I often reply, no, you've got that backwards. The house is always on fire.
There never was a time when the house isn't on fire. An asteroid can hit the earth. You don't know when you're going to die.
So the fact that the house is on fire is not cause for despair. It's cause for heroism.
It means that because life is delicate and beautiful, we are called beyond the pale expanse of our ordinary concerns with convenience and hedonism and self-preservation and comfort.
We're called to higher ground. We're called to heroic and urgent unifications and advancements and intelligences that we would otherwise have no need of considering.
And we could like cows in the field of our dominance of nature just chew the cud of the ecologies and produce no useful behavior.
So I understand the people who think, for example, that it's game over, man, we're done.
But it was game over when we were born.
At least for the specific unit of the expression of the history and future of life on earth, that this body I inhabit comprises being born means I will die.
Now here is one of the creatures that I was speaking about earlier, the bug.
And there are two, there's one like this, and due to their behavior, and people might not like me for this,
but due to their behavior, I'm going to suggest that I can tell the difference in the genders, and that this one is female.
And I suspect that the ones that have an orange stripe around the edge of their bodies and are exactly the same size and the same phenotype due to their behavior are male.
The females are not so prone to extreme reaction to my arrival. The males are very defensive.
I am not saying that we can judge all things by these standards or humans or anything like that.
I'm saying that it's my experience as an observer of nature that in general, males and females behave in ways that one can learn to produce generalized templates of.
So that upon seeing a single insect or bird, you might have a shot at determining whether or not it's male or female and some of them just look different.
A lot of them look different. Often the males are more colorful and that orange stripe, that's color, right?
Not always. Sometimes the males are drab. Sometimes the females are gigantic and the males are tiny.
Sometimes the females are aggressive and fierce and the males are relatively, well, let's just say less violent, relatively, as in praying mantises.
So they were talking about the apocalypse and they talk, Eric's so brilliant about talking how various pressures and perspectives on threat and opportunity over time are inclined to affect behavior.
And it's brilliant. I love listening to him. I learn every time I listen to him, whether I like what he's saying or not. And sometimes I don't.
Some of his pet perspectives I don't favor, but that's not important. It doesn't matter. I'm not here to try and convince anyone that my taste should be their taste.
But I did enjoy when they were speaking about how the imposition of awareness of apocalypse, whether it's personal, societal, national, ecological, epidemiological, how it affects humans.
And one of the things they were talking about is that presently we're so disoriented that one of the things that's going on in the United States, here's another little running spider, jamming along,
is that it's just causing people to attack each other, which is a very unfortunate situation that we should draw important intelligence from the emergence of.
And we should act on that intelligence quickly because otherwise predators and pirates who can foment that problem will prosper there from and dominate, continue to dominate and further dominate the common people, the history and future of life on Earth and so on, the possibility of human intelligence, etc.
I find it interesting that the coyotes, at least these ones that made these particular regurgitations, chose right the center of the path on which the humans tread to emit their sort of package of undigested skin and bone and such that they were carrying in their bellies.
Those are the only ones I've ever seen, I've never seen the disgorged remains of the digestive contents of predators, except these two on just this path, because I have not traveled far in my life, at least not physically.
When I began the video today, ordinarily I will try to select an agenda before I begin.
And that got me in a little trouble yesterday because I should have ended the video before I began talking about statistics, and I should have talked about statistics in a separate video.
And the reason is that the topics don't fit well together. I made something that I think was relatively beautiful in my explorations of memory and intelligence and so on.
And then I put kind of some poopy sauce on the top that didn't belong there by wandering into my concerns about science and statistics.
This, however, is part of being human. I have to make mistakes to learn, and I'm still learning how to make the kinds of videos that I hope to make, and I thank you for your patience with that process.
In the beginning, when I first began making videos, I had to learn how to avoid filler words, like, you know, these kinds of words.
And at first I wasn't sure I'd be able to do it, and I was quite embarrassed when I played back the videos I'd recorded to see they were like peppered with filler words.
I just did it. They were like, they were like peppered with filler words. But over time I became better at it, and it's a moving target.
We don't achieve perfection. We tend to achieve improvement. Improvement is achievable. If we have to shoot for perfection, most of us will never get off the starting line, as if we start on lines, which we do not, unless we're racing.
So, this afternoon I had a couple of agendas, and I still have them. But I also wondered about the difference in what emerges if I allow myself the liberty to simply proceed to wander, to birdwalk.
This is a colloquialism for just kind of wandering around, right?
And sometimes I can birdwalk, and if I allow myself to birdwalk I get something I wasn't expecting. I always get something I wasn't expecting, but if I'm birdwalking I often get results that are beautiful and I discover something I wasn't previously aware of.
The same thing happens when I follow agendas, but it's different, right? It's just the sort of question of, do we travel in a structured way or an unstructured way, and of course the answer is always both.
And one of them tends to dominate overall, you know, if we do the analysis at the end. But analysis is always after the fact, right?
So, I was wondering today, should I birdwalk or follow my agenda?
And I guess I decided to sort of play it as it lays, which means, again, a little of both.
But I'm going to now turn toward my actual agenda after birdwalking for a while.
And sometimes for me to be able to really, to really, to capture a topic and communicate the bones and organs and skin and blood and mind of the thing, I need time.
Which often means I have to make a video first in which I begin the process and then like fall asleep at night and have struggles with work during the week that I hate and then, you know, try to get food and be afraid of getting a virus and struggle with my health problems and dream a lot, I hope.
And then suddenly, you know, boom, I get a condensed, deliverable vehicle of insight.
And something like this happened to me this morning when I was thinking about people constantly arguing on social media over things they actually don't understand.
And they're not trying to understand them, they're trying to promote a position, their position.
And that position is largely an emotional position that they then try to justify with rational, you know, with what they think of as rational argument.
And this is peculiarly like how the waking mind works.
We make decisions long before and in abeyance of the explanations we later produce to justify them.
And that part of that process is the waking mind taking credit for our decisions, right, which are not mostly made by the waking mind.
They're made by primordial aspects of our human biology and essence, perhaps even our soul, that the waking mind could never draw a circle around and get a grasp on.
And it does not like things that can't get a grasp on.
The waking mind is relatively tool-oriented.
And by this, when I refer to the waking mind, I sort of mean many aspects of the specializations we presently associate with the left cerebral hemisphere, i.e., right side of the body.
So that constellation of layered neurological and physiological and emotocognitive inclinations likes to come up with explanations after the fact.
And it likes to hide that.
It doesn't want that scene.
That would be like seeing it naked.
It doesn't want to be seen naked.
That would be very embarrassing.
And it would be concerned, I think, if it were a person, that it would be ejected from its position of dominance at the table of consciousness, where it suddenly realized just how often this very clumsy masquerade is achieving primacy
and other vastly more important aspects of our humanity and intelligence and awareness and consciousness and memory and thought, perspective.
I think it's terrified that it would be subject to its own justice, because the right hemisphere, as I understand it, the right cerebral hemisphere, it's not much of an accountant.
The left hemisphere, if we're going to crudely characterize these two, it's really into accounting.
It wants to count shit.
And it especially wants to count its own shit, the shit it does.
That's the shit that actually matters, the shit it does, that it counts, right?
All that other shit, that doesn't matter.
That's like, trivial.
When, in fact, the opposite is true.
Without all that, you know, without that 97% of the trivial underpinnings of biology and neurology and ambiguity and evolutionary, evolutionary,
in structuring and historical in structuring and a given lifetime, that little tiny fingertip that thinks it's God wouldn't even be able to move.
So, we have this problem as humans, and it's a very, very difficult problem.
And I strongly agree with McGillchrist.
I just think he's right, that our supercultures and our groups, they are led primarily by a pretender, right?
A pretender who we don't want to vilify, but we need to dethrone.
We don't have to eject the pretender from the table.
We have to put it in places where its skills are best and most reasonably employed,
and remove it from places where its skills do not belong.
For example, in determining whether altruistic behavior is valuable or not.
The sort of left hemispheric argument is nature's competition, successful fitness equals successful competition, wipe out your opponents, you win.
That gets everybody dead because your opponents turn out to be organs in your own body.
And there's only one body around here, life.
So, the idea that we're separate from that is a left hemispheric-like construct, and it's a deadly construct.
It won't just get us killed, it'll get everything killed if we keep playing the game that way.
My point here, however, is that since yesterday, here are some pipeline swallowtail larva on an actual pipeline plant.
Or maybe, I don't know, that could be a Burberry plant.
It has what looks like Burberry's on it.
Or maybe the pipe, oh, I see the pipe vine is wrapped around the Burberry.
Okay, I get it.
Disambiguation, crazy stuff that.
And for those of you who haven't already seen this,
here's a chrysalis of one of those caterpillars,
and right here is the skin of one whose chrysalis probably fell off or was removed by a human.
To return to the vector of my concern,
people are sharing on social media, they're arguing.
And they're arguing about things like, is our president an idiot?
I mean, that's like arguing whether the sun is warm or not.
Yes, our president is an idiot.
Is he also adept at the kind of idiocy he's a professional at?
Yes, he is.
That's the kind of president that might get everyone killed.
And will certainly get a lot of people killed, and may even decide that that's a virtue.
Never before in history has there been a president who could lie through his fucking teeth in the way this guy does, and get away with it.
And it's astonishing, unless you understand how it came about.
It's not my intention to elaborate on that history, as I have done in previous videos.
They're arguing about things like, is the president good or bad?
Is there such a thing as the coronavirus or is it a hoax?
Was the lockdown a good idea or a bad idea?
And in fact, the idea of a lockdown is nothing like what happened.
What happened was more reasonably disambiguated in languages, social distancing.
No one was locked down.
A lockdown is the thing that happens in a prison, where you're not allowed out of your cell.
That's not what happened to us.
That is inflammatory language employed by the media to foment outrage, anger, fear, and disoriented fragmentation of our population.
Our, meaning the United States population.
Should we wear masks or not?
How deadly is the virus?
Should we even be concerned about it?
And I have perspectives on all these things, but it's not my goal here to promote them.
Instead, what I'm going to try to talk about is why all of this behavior is a smoke screen.
And it's not an intentional smoke screen on the part of the people engaging in it, although there are actors engaging in it intentionally for purposes that are nefarious.
The problem, it's a smoke screen because it's distracting us from urgently necessary thought, disambiguation, analysis, reason, rationality, and action.
That's what we do together with and for each other.
And when we're not doing that, if we're doing something other than that, we have lost our compass, right?
And we've become disoriented, and now we're going to attack ourselves and each other.
I mean, you could imagine if I owned hand, right? It started attacking me, right?
And I suddenly, I don't understand it, right?
And there are situations in which things like that occur.
For example, people who've had a commissurotomy where their corpus callosum has been severed so that they don't have epileptic fits, right?
They'll go to sort of select some pants with their right hand, and the left hand will grab, you know, the right hand and then try to attack it and blah, blah, blah, right?
And this is the kind of thing, the corpus callosum of our society, it sort of doesn't exist anymore.
The thing that connects the different aspects, right?
And also distinguishes them so that if one of them goes nuts or an electrical storm starts in one of them, it doesn't spread to all of them.
We need both connection and distinguishing.
A bird needs two wings.
There's a reason why bilaterally symmetrical organisms have two hemispheres.
A reason, that's not true, there's not a reason.
Reasons are things humans make up in language.
There is purposive intelligence in the fact that bilaterally symmetrical organisms generally have two brain hemispheres, though there are organisms like dolphins that appear to have three, or at least three major lobes.
So my point here is, the common people have become confused, they never were very unified to begin with, most of them are extremely poorly educated.
The few exceptions, even on the left, are not particularly good at fomenting unity, whereas the relatively ignorant and demonstrably selfish,
constituents of the right are quite good comparatively at producing a unified front.
So if the left is the intelligent aspect, and the right is the selfish aspect, right now the selfish aspect is winning.
And that's a crisis, but that's not my point, my point is this.
When we circulate media on the internet, we are failing, we're not convincing anyone of anything.
You share all the graphs and statistics and arguments and rationales you want, you're not going to change people's minds.
I mean, if there's a thousand people, you might change three of them, but you're going to have nearly no effect, and here's why.
What's going on isn't an attempt to learn, it's an attempt to declare.
And so what has happened is that the population of our nation, at least, and other nations, has fragmented into little religions of opinion.
And the purpose of those religions is not to understand phenomenon or be intelligent or learn, it's to tell us from them.
It's to tell who's on my side, which extended body do I belong with, and how do I recognize others that belong with us?
And how do I figure out what to do about them?
So that has nothing to do with learning, or intelligence, or disambiguation, or rationally understanding phenomenon, or predicting futures, or recognizing threats and opportunities.
It has to do with war, it has to do with hatred, it has to do with anger, with fear, outrage, violence.
It has to do with the emotions that, well, we can't get rid of them, don't exactly elevate our intelligence.
When I am afraid, I am dumber. When I am stressed, I am dumber.
If I think I'm surrounded by enemies, I get dumber.
And when I get dumber, I make poor decisions over time.
I take risks that otherwise I would not take.
It doesn't help me.
It doesn't help me, right?
Now, that doesn't mean those emotions don't have useful aspects.
There's reasons why they are conserved, evolutionarily, in the history and development of human consciousness and experience.
It's going to be a lot of wind for a minute.
So what's going on online is not a conversation.
It's not even an argument. It's war.
People are trying to punch each other into submission to their perspective.
And that has nothing to do with learning.
That's a domination game.
Now, let me explain, let me take a moment and frame for us what would be required to transform that.
One of the reasons why no one is going to listen to your statistics or your graphs or your declarations about, you know, this is a hoax or that's a threat.
No one is going to listen to any of that except the people who are already convinced of it and they are going to applaud you, right?
Because they are going to say, oh, that person is part of us, right?
And the people who aren't going to listen are going to attack you because they are going to say, oh, that person is part of them.
What actually happens if we want to learn is that first, we don't force people into learning.
You can't threaten people into understanding, right?
I mean, it's not that you let it's impossible.
It's that generally speaking, it won't succeed. It'll backfire.
And what you'll get is greater fragmentation, greater opinionation, greater clinging to ideological religions and so on.
I'm just kind of taking a look at something here.
A long time ago, some plants were planted in this area and I'm trying to see how many of them are still growing.
There's all these little flags, see?
And those flags show where I think pipe vine was planted.
But I don't see too many examples of successful plants.
Maybe they didn't get watered probably because of the pandemic.
If we want to learn together and we want to be intelligent and we want to use the power of multiple minds to magnify our insight and capacity to learn and to see and to grow and to progress,
we have to establish contexts that are fundamentally intelligent, promote that, reward it, encourage it,
and also allow us the decompressive, the sort of the space in which to open up, right?
Most of the time, a lot of us are going to be really compressed because of the contexts in which we are used to engaging in what we call discussion, but what is usually argument.
So we need a place where we are encouraged to decompress and open up, release that tension, to explore, to grow and learn and discover better positions and perspectives,
more reliable positions and perspectives, more mutually beneficial positions and perspectives than would otherwise obtain in contexts that either don't support that or specifically oppose it.
And social media is a context that specifically opposes it. Let's be clear.
People keep wondering why I keep telling people blah, blah, blah on social media and nothing happens. This is why.
It's because we didn't do the groundwork, right? We didn't start out by establishing the kinds of agreements and mutual concern and awareness that would empower the possibility of us learning together rather than fighting each other.
And until and unless we establish contexts like this, until we are intelligent enough to understand that we have to sit down together and agree first to establish a healthy, intelligent context in which we can be heard, right?
And we can open up, we can decompress, we can feel safe, supported, nurtured, recognized.
And we also have the agreement to pay attention to the most reliable information that we can acquire and to learn together how to determine whether information is reliable or whether it is masquerading as reliable for some purpose, which we can by rendering transparent defeat.
That's what has to happen if we want to have an intelligent conversation together where our minds transform toward more intelligent, more rational, more creatively trustworthy living perspectives and associations.
And that's what's not happening yet. Much.
Where that happens, if you try it even with two people, you will immediately see a dramatic difference in the behavior of those people.
But first, we have to agree, right?
We have to take the time to forge the context that allows for something resembling communication rather than something that resembles war but masquerades as a conversation or communication.
And that's most of what's going on on the internet.
So hopefully, that perspective will be useful to you and maybe those you care about, because instead of starting out with an argument, well, I think such and such is so.
We can ask a question.
Shall we today decide to set down our weapons and opinions and pet perspectives for the sake of discovery, mutual benefit, learning, growth, understanding, and something actually resembling progress?
There's a lot of assets for us to receive if we're willing to make that agreement.
We're going to be spending a lot of assets for nearly no progress if we don't.
So let's take the time together to establish the agreements that underlie the possibility of intelligent progress and conversation and mutual insight and awakening.
Let's learn together how to create contexts like that rather than to submit to the extreme, to the sort of piratical, right, the pirate contexts like Facebook and Instagram and Twitter that benefit when the opposite happens.
And boy, do they benefit.
The cash register rings a million times a second as long as we keep fighting and that money is not going into our pockets.
My fellow country folk, it's going into the pockets of pirates.
And hopefully we can change that too.
But let's start with learning how to have conversations that matter within for each other and the history and future of life on Earth.
Thanks for joining me.
Thanks for agreeing to learn together with me.
Bye-bye for now.
Thank you.
