Hey everybody, so you often wander around the garden wearing this hat and I don't get
mistaken for flower by hummingbirds, but I definitely occasionally get mistaken for
flower by bumblebees, and I always have curiosity about why different people dress different
ways and I personally I would prefer to dress colorfully rather than in the traditional masculine
monotones. But it's difficult to find colorful clothes that are tasteful without being flamboyant,
at least it's usually difficult if you're as lazy as I am, which is essentially catastrophically
lazy, because I'm used to buying clothes that I can wear and feel rather than clothes that I can
only see and I don't trust clothes that I can only see. In any case, while on the one side
a stellar shade that knows I carry peanuts was present and more closer to my head, you know,
bumblebee was orbiting me in a kind of not exactly opportunistic but more like like surveying in the
sense of noticing if for some reason a flower that wasn't here yesterday is here today and it's big
and blue and the size of my head, it occurred to me that I don't like obviously bright colors
attract visual creatures, you know, generally speaking. And for most animals, that's
problematical, depending on the context, right? You one doesn't want to attract predators. What
are women actually trying to attract with the bright colors? I would prefer to ask them directly,
one by one or in groups or whatever. Very interesting to know, you know, wildly fascinated by what the
answer might be. If they were to like pause and reflect, what am I doing when I'm wearing white
colors or bright colors or white or any color? I'd love to hear those answers, but speculatively in
my mind, it may be that they're not so much attract trying to attract men, they're trying to
attract birds and animals and bees and stuff, because with those surrounding them, like a,
that's a web of protections. If you have friends who are bees and animals and birds where you go,
they'll tell you if there's trouble, they'll protect you if there's trouble, all kinds of things
happen. But yeah, it just occurred for me the first time for the first time that they might not be
trying to attract men or even the appreciative gazes of other women, rather they're trying to
attract bees, wasps, birds and animals by appearing like flowers. I mean, what are flowers? They are
relational, they're complex, multi-dimensional localizations of the spirit of communion,
relation, lineage, all ancestor, all these things, right? They're all these intelligences that orbit
the flowers, even our own, that we usually don't think of what we have as flowers, I assure you.
They are. So yeah, maybe, maybe some of the women and maybe even unconsciously and certainly some
of the men, they might be trying to attract effectively non-human intelligences. What do
you think? Peace for now.
