Hello, everybody. I'm out for a walk on a rather breezy day, so probably get a little
bit of wind noise on the mic from time to time, but I've checked in and made a recording
in the wind to see how loud it is, and I think it's probably something we can live with.
My apologies if you find it distracting or disturbing. It's nice when there's no extraneous
sounds, but we live in a world where there's lots of extraneous things going on, or fundamental
things like the breeze. And perhaps the breeze is appropriate to my topic today. Breezes are
often associated with spirit, and thus we have the word inspiration, which both means to feel
excited and aroused and motivated, and also means to breathe in. The associations of this word are
deepened rich and ancient, and take into their compass the fact of our breathing and its fundamental
relationship with being. Wind, we draw wind in, we make inward wind, and then we express outward
wind. And on a cold day you'll see the changing cloud swirling, cloud of mist and steam that
comes out from our lungs. Today I was listening to Tim Ferriss talking with Swami. I listened to a lot
these days whose name I cannot remember yet. He's part of the Ramakrishna order, and I love his
podcasts, they're great. And the two topics that I want to explore today are consciousness and the divine
being. The being ordinarily referred to as God. Here's a very old bell. It's like a cowbell or something. It has a nice tone.
So, in modern neuroscience, there's a continuum of positions. But science in general presents and
authorizes a reductionist materialistic perspective. This is natural to this way of knowing. And it's very
powerful, particularly in producing insights about the world of transactional reality or the material
world as we think of it. It's funny, there's a beautiful lake here. There's actually a few of them around
here. And I know these lakes well, I grew up around them. But they are completely fenced off. They are private
lakes. There is no way for any person to get to the water. Cannot be done. Of course, in theory, one could climb
the fences. But even then, one would have access only to a very, very tiny portion of the lake, because the lakes are
surrounded with houses. And I love these lakes. And I'd like to go to them and be on them in a boat, or swim in them,
or, well, when I was younger, I would fish in them. I don't think I could fish now. I'm a very skillful fisherman. But
I don't think I could hurt the beings, the worms and the fishes and such. And some people will say, oh,
you're a hypocrite. You eat meat. But you don't kill the meat. So, you know,
this is a very abstract concern from one perspective.
And a realistic concern from another. I think the reason I bring up the lake and the fences
is partly because it's right here in my experience right now.
But it's an excellent analogy of our modern relationship with both the divine world
or the origin world, as I like to call it. And also with consciousness.
There's been a bunch of structure that's erected all around these ideas. And the structure
doesn't let us swim. We can't go to the water,
because the structure creates a barrier between us and the water in thought.
And in this analogy, the water is our original nature, our true nature,
which is discoverable to us, but very peculiarly occluded, very effectively occluded.
If we could figure out how to jump the fence and go for a swim in our original nature,
what excellent and beautiful bliss would be ours forever thereafter.
But even if we are aware of this, the occlusions are so trenchant
that most of us will find it very challenging
unless we are naturally gifted or inclined to this endeavor.
In a sense, what we refer to as consciousness or what I will refer to as consciousness in this
discussion, and I'll try to make clear what it is I'm speaking of there,
and what I'm referring to as the direct experience of divinity or the divine
the divine itself, but also most often we will experience a layer of it if we have some experience.
There was, I think, a brain surgeon, perhaps his name will come to me,
who wrote a book, Proof of Heaven, because he had the experience of being clinically dead,
and during that experience,
he, well, of course, he had some experience when supposedly his brain was dead.
Now, neuroscientists and others will argue I received a phone call which broke my train of
thought. Let's see if I can retrieve it. So the surgeon or neurologist guy, he had some experience
and scientists will try to explain this away in various ways, and there's lots of ways to do that.
We can say that the temporality of his experience is confused, that he actually had this experience
before he died clinically, his brain was dead. Now, of course, what they mean by dead is there's
no electrical activity in the brain, and he had a very catastrophic brain infection,
and in fact, there's no reasonable way that we can understand in modern medical science
for why he could survive this, or even survive it and return to normal function,
as a human being, quote unquote, normal function. And I think his name is Eben Alexander,
if I'm remembering right, and he came back and wrote a book about heaven, and made the claim that,
and this is a truth claim, that because he had experience while he was dead,
this proves that there's an afterlife. There's a couple of problems here. The first is,
of course, he had some kind of an experience and he has memories of this experience, and then he
narratizes these memories, he makes a narrative out of them, and decides what they mean, and what
the experiences are, their ontological nature, and so on, and how he knows what they are,
the epistemology, and so on. And I'm not here to deny his experience, or even really his interpretation,
but I would ask that we admit together that it's an interpretation, and that after the experience,
post-hoc, he created a narrative for a specific array of purposes. Obviously, he was inspired,
haha, by his experience, but he nonetheless interpreted it for specific purposes, and
including the writing of books and such. Now, I too have profound non-ordinary experience.
I have tried to resist the urge to specifically narratize it, so if someone says to me, do you
know exactly what happened to you? I'll say no, I do not know. I can say what I think it was like,
and I have narratives and ideas about it, but I don't reify them explicitly the way that Ebon
did, and continues to do. And obviously, Ebon thinks there's some great benefit, if we believe him,
that we will be enlightened and educated and relieved of wrong-minded ideas and so forth,
and I too have similar beliefs about my experiences.
I think the thing that's important to understand is that it's very difficult for humans to resist
the urge to narratize experience, post-hoc, and that presents a bunch of problems.
Now, if someone asks me the question of, what do I think happens when we die? Well,
this is a peculiarly troublesome question, because in our ordinary ways of thinking,
we are inclined to think in a very clumsy way, a way that proposes either this or that happens,
and the same thing happens for everyone. This is not like our actual experience or nature.
Let me be very clear. Think about the fact that each one of us has been born. We developed
in the womb of our mother after she was fertilized by our father, or at least some sperm,
and then we had a very specific and unique experience inside the womb developmentally,
just as each one of our mothers is in a unique situation in her life, and health, and relationships.
So, we had a very unique experience in the womb, and then we emerged from the womb,
each one of us with a specific family born into specific cultures, epochs of
modernity, or the past, and then we developed. So, what I mean to say here is that it is a fact
that we all underwent development and birth, but it is a wildly different result
of that process for each one of us. Now, this isn't to say that some of our lives,
there are resemblances in our experience of having been born and developing as a child,
and becoming adults, and so on. There are features that are shared that we can generally say are
true of all of us. For example, we eat food, we learn language, but we each have a unique
relationship with food and language, and even though there are many shared things,
there are probably vastly more unique things, and certainly we can imagine that it's very different
to be born to a family of slaves somewhere in, who knows where, Syria or India somewhere,
than it is to be born to a wealthy and privileged family somewhere.
We are each born with unique gifts and vulnerabilities, and so although we undergo the
same experience of birth, and we are all alive in a general sense, if we look very closely,
we will find that this is profoundly unique for each person. The fact that we all have the
experience of birth does not reduce being born to the same thing for all people.
It turns out that being born initiates a human lifetime, and each human lifetime
and each person's life experience is probably far more unique than it is similar to those of other
people. So when we ask a question like, what happens after death?
The question, what happens after birth, is an important and enlightening question that we have
actual direct experience of. We each have a unique experience of something that happened
after birth, or all the things that happened after birth. And so we must imagine, you know,
some humans are born, and they have no hands. Some humans are born, and they have no eyes.
Some humans are born, and they cannot form a coherent mind, as we understand them.
Some humans are born and become incredibly athletic. Some humans are born and become great
Some humans are born and become great prodigies or artists.
Some humans overcome what we think of as developmental challenges.
And some humans don't. So there's an infinite array of possibilities that begin with birth.
And similarly, we must imagine that if anything happens after death,
it is probably at least as unique to each being as it is generally the same.
It probably resembles birth in both that there are generalized shared aspects of whatever may
happen. And then there are unique, what we might think of as personal aspects, although
it's unclear that the experience of being post death of the body
is a personal experience, since the word personal applies to those of us who have been born.
We might say that there's a shared domain of transpersonal experience after death,
if we decide that anything happens at all. Now, of course, there are two fundamental positions.
One is death is the absolute end of all things. There's nothing after it.
It's pretty hard to imagine nothing, by the way. Try it sometime. See how difficult it is.
But this is one of the positions that everything about my consciousness being,
awareness, soul, and so on ends there at the moment of death.
Now, of course, death is not really a moment. Death is a process, and it's a complex, long process,
very poorly understood by humans, which is part of why Evan's experience is confusing,
both to him and other people, especially doctors. How could he have large portions of his brain
eaten away by bacteria and then, you know, essentially wake up with reports of having
been to heaven, quote unquote, that's his narrative, and then relatively quickly return to what appears
to pretty much everyone as normal human function, should be impossible if our understanding of the
brain and so on, our clinical understanding, it's not our understanding, it's clinical understanding,
is correct. Once again, we have the same problem here of generalizing something that's extremely
unique in each instance, a brain. Yes, probabilistically, it's very unlikely that this would happen to
someone, that they could have an experience like this, and that they could return to normal function,
and so on. But it happened. And this is part of the problem with generalized knowledge.
Generalized knowledge accounts for probabilities over cohorts. Any specific individual, quote unquote,
is a unique instance. And so things that seem impossible, when we look at the overall picture,
are not only possible, they are actual, in specific instances. Someone lives to be 130.
Wrong, someone does.
So the two basic positions are, there's some continuity of being,
post death of the body, which again is not just the cessation of the heartbeat, cessation of brain
signals. People return to life after both of those things with some degree of regularity,
meaning not zero people return. And I've wandered a bit of field here, but I've done so
with a purpose in mind. So one of the things that happened for Eben is he got to swim in the ocean.
All right, he got through the barriers.
With his body essentially dead, something we might call his consciousness had a profound
non-ordinary experience. And then when he returned to waking consciousness from this experience,
he could recall what had happened, albeit selectively, and then narratize it and present us
with a story of what happened. Probably the difference between me and him is he believes
his story, I'm more inclined to believe his experience and be a little bit suspicious of
his narratization. Similarly, the story we tell about a dream is not a dream. Dreaming is a profoundly
non-ordinary event, but usually happens when we're asleep, though there are probably hundreds
of forms of dreaming, many of which used to happen regularly when we were when we were awake.
There's going to be a little wind noise for a bit here as I go down and visit the water
in the San Joaquin Delta.
So this is one place where even though there's a lot of fences, I can get down near the water,
and that seems like a good idea to give them a topic at hand.
And the fact that I adore the water.
So Evan broke through all the fences and structure by dying. There's other ways to break through it,
or even to render the structure and fences partly permeable.
I am most fond of experiences that do not involve or require the use of intoxicants,
though I will mention that psychedelics are one of the methods of rendering some of the
structure permeable. I'm going to pause now because of how much wind there is,
and I'll come back in a moment.
So I tend to prefer
inductions to ecstasy and non-ordinary experience that do not involve intoxicants
for a wide variety of reasons. And most of the people who've listened to my talks
are aware of this peculiarity. There's lots of dangers, particularly for moderns,
because we don't have intelligent ancient cultures that would encompass these experiences
and provide wise context. Nonetheless, it seems reasonably true that certain kinds of psychedelic
drugs soften some of the barriers between us and the Great Waters, being,
and wisdom, and insight, awakening, liberation.
And often this is accomplished simply by inhibiting things
that are ordinarily very powerful
features of our waking world consciousness.
I think neuroscientists, if I remember the research correctly, were surprised to discover
that people under the influence of psychedelic mushrooms
rather than having wild activation of various brain areas experienced unexpected inhibition
of certain brain areas.
In any case,
there are infinite ways to soften the barrier between us and the Great Waters.
Meditation of various kinds is well known to be effective at accomplishing this.
And rhythmic input is very powerful. I was just standing on a dock in the water,
and the dock was rocking with the waves, and that by itself is a very powerful induction.
It is possible that certain forms of hypnotic induction can be useful in this.
But fundamentally, for most of human history,
non-ordinary experience was catalyzed by one of a fairly small number of participatory experiences.
Experiences where there is profound passion, longing, need, or desire.
Some experiences of crisis, but particularly experiences in which groups of humans who
are intimately related to each other, tribally as families and so on, got together and danced
and drummed and rattled and sang and screamed. These kinds of things, these are probably the
most ancient group inductions for humans. It seems clear also that animals undergo various forms of
trance. In some forms of trance, render barriers more permeable. Almost lost my hat right there.
And in a way, we can think of the experience, having the experience of the barriers becoming
permeable, a bit like losing a hat. There's something on top of our consciousness that continually
inhibits our access to the great waters of being, the great waters of origin. And there are certain
kinds of experiences that suddenly remove the barriers for us.
Hi!
A deep experience of the friendliness of strangers.
Is one of those experiences. Some of the barrier is removed. Now, of course, fundamentally it's
my understanding and experience that all beings and places are one being.
It's just that this is hidden from us. And beings who have lived before us are still
beings and beings who will live after us are already beings.
The way the universe is, or the great everything is, is so astonishing and unlike what we would
imagine with our common waking consciousness, that when confronted with it, there's a risk of death
from beauty. In Christianity, the phrase, the fear of God is commonly offered or spoken or written.
And in general, I think many people are inclined to interpret this phrase to mean that God is
terrible and wrathful and judgmental and so on. Whatever God may be, I think the reality is quite
the opposite of that. It's a great and terrifying ecstatic beauty. A beauty so astonishing that we
our individuality and probably our bodies can survive nothing more than the very least of
exposures to it. It's a beauty so vast and astonishing that were we exposed to more than just
the tiniest glimpse, we would expire of ecstasy.
Now, I'm not trying to convince anyone of anything here. I don't want to convince
people that my experience is real or Evans is real or what the scientists say is real.
And these are different kinds of reality, pedagogical reality, scientific reality,
clinical reality. This is a very different thing from what we might call the transcendental fact
of original nature or originary participation in existence.
Questions about God are very difficult to shed light on in ordinary language and thought.
We need forms of language, neologisms, specific ways of speaking, analogies, parables, metaphors
and so on that can point toward the nature of the divine without collapsing it into deliverable
terms and functions and so on. Thus we have the term transcendental.
All of that which is meta to all of that we are familiar with beyond that with which we are
ordinarily familiar, but perhaps directly involved in our capacity to have awareness or understanding
at all. So when I use the word God, I mean
a being in this conversation, I mean a being
who a transcendental being, a non-ordinary being outside of time, outside of matter,
who is the source of all beings
and in whom all beings both originate and exist probably eternally,
but when you're outside of time the meaning of eternity is not the same as the meaning of forever.
So I think of this as the being who dwells in unity,
the living communion of all beings and all that is beyond all beings.
I try not to ascribe qualities, nonetheless I have some direct experience of this,
that of which I speak or the one who of which I speak and I have narratives and models and
fairy tales and so on. It's not my intention to present those here. Those are the results both of
long passionate seeking and also of eventual partial success in this seeking
and so an experienced introduction to the world of origin or the place of origin or the origin
being. Now what other people mean by God depends on who's speaking and why and where and how and so
forth. Though the term generally points in the same direction, the distinctions are profuse
and some of them are absurd and impossible or at least they seem impossible. Now it's certainly
reasonable to suppose or imagine that there are something like sub-gods, godlets or angels or
organs of the being who dwells in unity that have specific purviews over aspects of the everything
and beings. And I think in this way and this also matches my experience
but I'm very cautious to reify any of these thoughts and say no this is how it is.
These are essays, they are attempts at pointing towards something completely transcendental to
language and concept much like a kiss. A passionate involved kiss is a departure from just about
everything else and there is no way to encompass it in language that we might try to compare it to
things or make descriptions of it or so on. Much like a dream those descriptions are not dreaming
if we could if we could actually describe dreaming we would begin dreaming and if we could
properly invoke a dream then we would re-dream the dream we were invoking.
This would be an experience of dreaming not an experience of description or storytelling
or narratives and thus it is when we emerge from a dream with memories and we translate those
memories into narratives this is not the dream this is not dreaming it's not even really a record
of the dream it's a record of waking mind sort of mostly left hemispheric-ish mind translating
things of which it has no real experience and very little relation with into the stuff it's used to
which is graspable concepts narratives plots and so on this is what ebbon did
with his experience and it's similar to what i myself have done with my experience
or experiences although in my case i always give the proviso
you know that what i'm saying is not the experience and these are toys of reference
that i've composed to attempt to talk meaningfully about something that really does not fit in
language very well at all although parts of it fit into parables and analogies and metaphors and so
on
whatever god is or may be
it appears there's something beyond even that
something so
transcendental that all qualities
hello
disappear and this is what is often referred to in buddhist and vedantic traditions with the word
emptiness of this i intend to say very little for putting hats on hatlessness is not my goal
however i will say that it in my view at present it more resembles
absolute
undifferentiated potential the before of all beingness than it does emptiness
very difficult for us to understand emptiness
and if i say this emptiness is dynamic which is my experience i've already begun making mistakes
that will lead to catastrophe so it's best for me to not speak too much about this except to say
that it is certainly not merely nothing and that there is a quality no that's not the right word
perhaps no every time i try to make a word i'm going to fail but i'll keep goofing around
here for a minute it's as if there's a dynamism in this emptiness and it's as if though exceeding
all qualities the emptiness has a certain kind of character to it or a potential character
or a potency there we go a potency that's what i'm looking for or perhaps infinite potencies
it's my experience that all beings and forms our reflections of potencies
in the being that dwells in unity and so the face of the raccoon the shape of the tree
the shape of my hand the wondrous transcendental beauty of the eyes of animals and humans
all that is attractive and all that is repulsive all of these things are
not precisely reflections
they are
what shall i call it it's difficult
they are resemblances
and appearances of
the nature of the marriage of the being who dwells in unity with the living waters
with time space and matter
and all of the things the humans make actually have qualities that are derived from features
of what i think of in my private world as the universe of origin wheels and rods and keys
and locks and disks and spheres and all of the geometric forms
i'm in a place of a lot of wind so we might say i'm very inspired right now
so i want to shift now toward talking about
consciousness awareness and i guess i'll start by talking a little bit about what i mean by the
use of these words
and here is some tricky ground to traverse
consciousness is that by which
anything is revealed
the analogy is light
in the sense of seeing
with zero light there is no seeing with zero consciousness nothing is revealed
and there is nothing to reveal it to
consciousness and awareness are primordial they come before all ideas and concepts without
them there are no ideas or concepts there are no minds and all of the entire lexicon
of things that humans have made words to point to dissolves
now this is a peculiar thing because
if i say if i refer to the sun i'm a human being referring to the sun
if all the humans were to disappear suddenly or if they were to be somehow rendered never
having existed then there is no such thing as the sun because the humans have human concepts
and words to point at stuff so when i say the sun i'm using the human ideas and concepts and words
to point to the phenomenon that we can experience directly as humans
but if there are no humans there's nothing like the human idea of the sun
there might be something there but there's no one to comment on it therefore there is nothing to be
said of course we could imagine that if just the humans disappeared then all the other
organisms would still have experience of the sun but that would not be the human idea or
experience of the sun so again we're left with the same problem there's something going on but
we cannot say anything about it because all human ideas and concepts have disappeared with humans
and this is very important it's not just a merely didactic point
when we use human language and a specific human language like English
then what we're doing is participating in a tradition of knowledge and reference
whatever is actually going on is far beyond that tradition and cannot be encompassed by
any of the traditions or even by their sun what is actually going on is transcendental to knowledge
and language description analysis evaluation and this is where science runs into a variety of
problems i was laughing earlier listening to tim ferris talking to swamiji and
i think he was repeating something ken wilber said about reductionists
and reductionist materialist paradigms like those common in science
and he said let's see if i can remember
apparently for the reductionists everything can be explained by the idea of frisky dirt
now of course this also fails because if they had just said
everything is simply dirt then they'd be close to success the problem here is they have to explain
why the dirt is frisky why is there friskiness associated with dirt what is that frisky thing
and of course what they mean is something like
something like
unpredictably erotically self-facinated particles but where where you get the eros see this is the
problem there's a number of movements within neuroscience and other sciences whose goal it is
to dismiss everything that cannot be clinically grasped and evict it from the subjective world
of experience by calling it an epiphenomenon so you don't have consciousness consciousness is
just an illusion it's like the exhaust produced by the functioning of your brain or something like
this which is ridiculous because there are no brains in boxes all brains are full bodies
your nervous system is all throughout your body it relates with every aspect of your body your
body so the idea that it's all in your head is some kind of catastrophic confusion
philosophically this goal belongs to a school called eliminative materialism and
and what is being eliminated is anything outside the mechanics that we can get a grasp on everything
transcendental is to be eliminated it's kind of a weird idea in fact it's a catastrophically dumb
idea though it's useful right we need people to make these kinds of arguments in order for us
to understand why they fail and the basic feature of their failing is relatively easy to get a hold
of without consciousness you don't have the concern of eliminating anything it's consciousness that
gives you the questions that lead to the desires for this elimination and the functional arguments
for it however crude or impossible they may be so to try to throw consciousness away and say no no
since we can't explain that obviously it is that with which we have the desire for explanation
without consciousness without awareness none of these questions or concerns could arise
um so it's ironic in fact it's recursively ironic that consciousness would result in a school of
thought that attempts to eliminate it as a subject of concern or wonder or fascination or curiosity
uh
Dawkins and Dennett and Hitchens
Harris those are the four horsemen these are eliminative materialists and it's sort of
ironic that they would attack theists though again it makes some sense because of their concerns
hello sweetness yes hello
the cat has come to visit me and it just came running like we were old friends
hi my beauty yeah hi sweetness
had no fear
it just it was it just ran right up to me
I wanted to say hello what a beautiful soul you are yes yes I love you yes I do I love you
how did it know how did this cat know
that we could be companions that we could be friends
it doesn't seem to be a young cat
and I'm going to guess it's a female
I like to think that it's very sensitive like me
I don't think the cat is a machine the cat is a soul an embodied soul
and it senses just as I sense that fundamentally we are together in the world
yes yes hi beauty
and so we can have an experience of being together in the world
in seemingly separate bodies that recalls the great communion of all beings
and so softens the barriers between us and the great waters
communion and love and mutual concern
adoration glory sweetness
I hope this cat isn't lost sometimes when cats are lost then they uh
yes and they're
much more demonstrative of friendliness
but it seems
that this cat lives here
I just can't tell for sure yeah it's a little bit skittish and that makes me
concerned that it's lost
but I'm hoping that it lives right near one of these houses we'll see for how long it follows
it seems to want to hang out
so that's a honestly good sign
I don't want to be too forward and go knocking on doors
but of course I want the cat
to be safe
because I already love it
so isn't it ironic that the very consciousness with which we form questions and concerns
about nature and identity and the fundamental reality of stuff
I don't want to use the word things
um could mountain assault on its own root
now there's different there's at least three important ways to think about consciousness
things are revealed in consciousness things are revealed as consciousness
and then finally consciousness is the fundamental ground of all experience and being
the light of lights the source of sources the heart of hearts
is consciousness in us or are we consciousness
experience the revelation of consciousness as being
primarily it was my goal to refute the eliminative materialists briefly
and call their agenda absurd
however again I'm really grateful that they exist
without them I might be deceived into thinking something like
oh there's not really any such thing as consciousness
this is all just a vast mechanical accident
my mind is an epiphenomenon of the function of my body that ceases entirely when my body dies
and things like this ideas like this
none of which I believe seems wildly unlikely to me that the death of my body will be the end
of my it will be the end of the participation of Darren
my embodied self in awareness probably in in waking embodied material world awareness
and I don't know precisely what happens after that
but I have every reason to suspect believe and know that the end of my body
is not the end of the processes and intelligences and histories and futures
from which I emerged into embodiment
I do consider it a mystery I don't claim to know what the truth is
and in fact unless we have an experience of it it's just speculation or it's mostly speculation
with some intuition involved
when I had a chance to gaze into the great mystery of being
and have the great mystery of being gazed into me and walk hand in hand
in wonder and adoration and awe
my primary concerns were not about death and the continuity of my being
they were about life
and healing the damage in our in the minds of our species
on earth so that we could not be in such terrible traps of language and concept
and ideology
I wanted to render the barrier the barriers permeable again so that we could all
go to the great water at will and remember ourselves and our origin
and our fundamental communion our intimacy not just with humans but with all beings
in all of time
the great waters exclude no one and nothing
they don't even exclude nothing
it seems to me that consciousness is a result of participation
in the hyper structure of all beings in all of time
and the being who dwells in unity and perhaps particular organs so to speak in that being
there seems to be an aspect of the being that dwells in unity
that not only gives rise to minds in animals and humans and perhaps other life forms
or mind like processes
it participates directly in those processes
or they participate directly in those processes
and so our mind right now is
inseparable from the divine beings
they are participating in it directly moment to moment without that participation
we would not have minds
we can become aware of this it's very uncommon
many of us suspect something like this but have no or little direct experience of it
and some of us are passionately seeking such experience
so that we can understand
one of the peculiar ironies of human thinking and particularly linguistic thought
is that
understanding is rare and overstanding is common and this is what's going on
when the eliminative materialists say there's no such thing as consciousness or awareness
those are just figments of your imagination
things you've made up words about
that are actually just the result of the mechanical processes of your biological vehicle
or the biological vehicle
and thus they would say
in the shadow version of the enlightened language there is no union
but they mean a very different thing
you don't mean you are the transcendental origin
you are that origin right now
they don't mean that
they mean you're just a figment
both schools of thought would agree that you or me is a figment
the Buddhists and Vedantists would compare this figment to a kind of dreaming
you're having a dream of a separate self
the scientists would say there's no basis for believing in a you
well some scientists would say this
some some philosophers would say the idea of you is just a delusion
but there's a difference between a dream and a delusion
here they're not exactly the same thing
when we're stuck in language we're farther from the we just
it's so hard to get closer to the truth by using words
what we need is a direct experience of our true nature origin
the great communion the great waters of being
and water is probably the best metaphor so that's why I keep using it
when I speak and make these recordings I'm making an attempt
and I'm also trying to understand my own thought and capacities for articulation better
um
I succeed to various degrees against my own standards
I made a recording last night that I'm not very happy with and I'm not sure I'll post
and in this recording I'm not particularly pleased with my result the results either
but it's my goal to explore and when I'm exploring it's a bit like wandering around
in a forest there are moments of profound success where I feel ah yes this is what I was looking for
this this stone with the tree sticking out of it here on the side of this mountain where I can see
vistas and birds this is what I was after and there are other moments where I'm just trying to
figure out how to get somewhere
and consciousness is like this for most of us much of the time
frisky dirt it's hilarious
I agree that the dirt is frisky but I don't think it's just mechanical dirt
I don't think I mean we talk about the laws of the universe as if there's some law giver
but whatever's going on in the universe isn't laws laws are a human idea
and they're not rules either because rules are human ideas
and whatever's going on out there transcendentally I think we as human beings um academically
particularly clinically and scientifically our understanding
is catastrophically misfounded because we don't know the first thing about anything
we don't know the most important thing to know before you start making further cuts in the manifold
of identity and if we knew that if we could get ahold of that what is the most important starting
place the best first move a truly trustworthy first move then we could make progress but without
knowing that and we don't science certainly can't find this we're going to be trapped by our purposes
in making cuts and in a way we will get further and further from the truth rather than closer and
closer to it obviously our species is catastrophically confused because most of what we do is a consistently
aggravated self-expanding assault on the nature of life on earth that's not
the activity of an enlightened species that's the activity of a catastrophically confused species
they're attacking their own origin most of the time and finding new ways to do that all day every
day that game will fail and it's not even really a game it's a disease
but there is hope some of the ancient traditions are brilliant
there are profoundly altruistic wise human beings walking around some of them are little children
some of them are old people some of them are young people middle-aged people in every culture and
walk of life we find reason for hope and we can become that hope and perhaps that was my primary
concern when I was walking in and with the great waters of being during my experiences
may we render the barriers permeable together in ways that are wise kind friendly and intelligent
thank you for joining me I look forward to learning together again very soon
