Hi. Today is Sunday, January 19, 2014. It is 11.59 a.m.
My name is Darren Stevenson. I don't really have a name.
And I'm not any specific thing or word or function that you could name.
I am not a person. I am not merely an animal. I am more than just an ecology.
I am, at the very least, a universe.
And so when we think of ourselves as less than a universe or less than an ecology,
or less than a really astonishing being of many octaves or orders of being,
most of which are hidden from us by our ideas and our language,
then we're making a mistake.
We're putting on some kind of limitation that we've been trained to wear
as our identity, our meaning, our opportunities, our functions, our beliefs, etc.
This is a kind of blinding, and it's very cruel and vicious in its effects,
both personally and collectively.
We often hear this idea that we're connected, but it's really a gross kind of fiction
because holes exist in a distributed body in the same way that a school of fish
or the forest of neurons in my mind, which are all apparently distinct.
They're separated by gaps, by the way.
They are not separate, but they are not merely one.
They are a kind of distributed wholeness.
And that ness means that they are not frozen in any state that we can name or abstract,
except as a linguistic convenience, a way of playing a game together.
You see, my fingers are not really separate, nor is my hand a distinct thing.
And yet, as a convenience, we can say I have here one hand.
But the weird thing about this hand is that it's much like my own body.
Let me explain. First, it is one whole thing.
It's a hand. We understand that.
It's not really connected to my body. It is me. This is me.
This is not separate from my brain. This is my brain.
Strangely, it's not entirely separate from your brain,
and there's lots of ways in which this belongs to you.
But I'm going to stay with some of the simpler facets of this idea.
So my fingers are not really separate. You see, they're aspects of a whole.
And I am a lot like this, because I like my hand in first one.
I have one unifying body, which we don't count, by the way,
and that's a very dangerous thing to do.
Like my hand, I have one member that I may call my thinking or leading member,
which organizes the other members into useful collective activities and potentials.
It has two major sections, neck and head, like my thumb.
Like my hand, I have one, two, three, four, one, two, three, four working members.
Like my hand, they each have three major sections.
And so what I'd like you to underst- hand with me is that in a very real sense,
you and I are the hand of something, and like our hands, we have something like a wrist.
But at the scale of the individual, at the order or octave,
at the organizational size, if you will, and speed of what we sense as our individuality,
we have a linking aspect, which is invisible, that is like the wrist.
And there's a good reason that it's invisible.
If it were visible, it would have more mass than the universe.
So we don't see this linking aspect.
And this linking aspect is actually can be understood and explored directly,
access as the roots, the roots of our minds, how it is that we can be what we call sentient,
but I understand to be transcendent, which means a localized instance of all minds
and all moments of all minds in all of time.
We think of ourselves in very confused ways, and we've been taught these ways by authorities of various kinds.
These authorities get instanced in us in a kind of an amphitheater,
both above and on the same level as us and beneath us.
And the ones above us, we understand as authorities, and the ones sort of at our own scale,
we understand as peers, and the ones below us, well, we understand those in lots of different ways
that I won't go into in length here.
All of them are crucially important to include.
But we need to recognize that we are not the authorities, we are not the projections of them, definitely.
We are not our peers, we are not the projections of our peers,
and we are not those beings beneath or opposed to us or who we reject or say are lesser than us.
We are not the projections of them.
Yet, in our experience, we often, how should I put it,
we exist as a kind of merged projection of ideas and voices, histories and moments, memories, thoughts, feelings
that result from reflecting our own experience off of, as if we are in a sort of hall of many orders of mirrors.
These three orders of mirrors.
And so we reflect off of our heroes and off of those beings that we think are true authorities,
and then we try to understand ourselves in relation to that reflection.
Well, interestingly enough, that is surveillance.
That's a form of surveillance.
And our own minds actually arise in an inward environment of surveillance.
And the nature in our feelings and our potentials for intelligence and unity and fulfillment and growth, opportunity,
the things that we hope for in life.
These are in many ways cruelly limited by projections of false authority.
And this false authority comes from many branches of knowledge, right?
These could be understood as the branches of the tree of human knowledge.
This could even be related to the Genesis story in which we went to a strange tree and gotten some trouble a long time ago.
And part of the trouble that we got into was that we were introduced to the idea of the hypothetical.
That is, what might also be said or what could be said, what disembodied experts might agree upon.
And so this is really, we live in a milieu of lethal fictional collectives.
These are groups of not really people because they're not allowed to be people.
The minds that they have are not minds like a living being.
They are fictional minds.
And they were established in the image of fictional human collectives whose goals are generated by lies.
Lies about the meaning of being alive.
Lies about what it is to be an animal or a living place.
Lies about what it means to be a world or a human person or to be intelligent or have a mind.
Lies about who we are supposed to be and become, what functions we should be doing or acting as.
And by the way, we should never really be seen as a function if we are our humanity and our intelligence.
And our inviolable birthrights have been amputated.
These will then be sold back to us at ever-increasing prices as we can see all around us in common moment.
So this tree of knowledge that we have has branches and on each branch there are experts.
Over here or maybe over here on the right we have science.
My camera is reversed.
This is one of those technological things that you get reversed in lots of ways when you play with technology.
And it's not easy to notice this unless you're trained.
Over here we have the experts of science and they seem to think they're clean of all blame.
And that they're the good way of knowing true and dependable, logical and rational.
They're wrong.
I'm going to show you how wrong they are.
They're lethally wrong.
Over here we have religion.
And religion wants to tell us about important surveillance beings.
Outside of time or in the sky or after life who are supposedly looking down upon us and judging us.
And they want to tell us who we should be and what we should do according to that.
Science wants to tell us what we should be and do according to their ideas of what isn't true about this.
And religion wants science to be informed by these strange fictional sky gods.
Now whether or not there are actual intelligence above ours, intelligence is above ours which there are, let's face it.
They don't match anything like what science wants us to believe or what religion wants us to believe.
Nor do they match what philosophy wants us to believe or gurus or politicians or activists or revolutionaries or anyone.
They don't match up because, A, much of the reality is unspecified.
Meaning that it's in a superposition of being.
It doesn't come down into our experience until we become it together, right?
We have this amazing capacity to draw superpositions of possible thought and being into direct existence and expression
as ourselves and our collectives, our ecologies and our living world, when it is a living world.
In a dead world you have none of those opportunities.
So one of the things I want to make clear here and I'm kind of experimenting.
I don't really know where I'm going in this conversation.
I'm just kind of having my tea with you at the moment.
So thank you for joining me and bearing with me.
One of the things I want us to look at together is that
mind is a kind of surveillance.
It's a self-surveillance in a field of relationships.
And many of those relationships that are really problematical are with authorities.
And most of those authorities are false and they would wipe you out as soon as they would befriend you.
They will not age you. They do not care if you live or die.
They do not care if anything lives or dies.
In fact, they're not real beings and the collectives that they foment are not real collectives.
Let me explain.
Most of us know what happens to indigenous peoples.
These are living human animals who live in the wilderness of a living place.
When they encounter a representational culture like our own.
We don't have to wonder what happens to them.
We can see it all around us in the current moment.
And we can also look into our rather confused ideas about history and just see what happens.
And usually what often happens is this.
The indigenous peoples sort of believe that the collectives whose emissaries are coming to meet them are true beings.
Like themselves, they are alive in a true way in nature with each other.
Here's the problem.
They aren't really.
What met the indigenous peoples of the Americas were false collectives.
And these false collectives were lethally confused about everything.
So confused that they saw living places and beings as resources to be converted into power war and wealth.
Well, you can go ahead and do that to the first people there.
But then that's going to just circle right back and happen to you.
Which is what's happening to all of us right now.
Except instead of one or 15 or 20 false collectives and false authorities, we have thousands of them.
And there are mountains of them.
And the ones at the top look like the really big ones.
Christianity, Islam, science, democracy, market economies.
Consumerism, news.
So right now we're being sworn colonized by false collectives.
And we are making our own minds, minds and futures in the image of these diseases.
Which are infecting us, remaking us in their image.
And then basically causing us to fight against each other as though we were each distinct.
Which we cannot ever be.
In case it's not clear, there's only one world here that looks like this.
There's nothing separate in there except as a convenience.
And how should we put it?
A unique way of magnifying benefit, right?
To instance one thing in many bodies is a way of incredibly magnifying the potential and benefit of whatever that one thing is.
And that's mostly what's going on in living systems.
It's not what's going on in human organized systems at all.
The opposite is going on over there.
And it burns down intelligence.
It burns down ecosystems.
It burns down the history of life on earth for a quick fix of an addictive, false celebration or benefit that lasts for an instant instead of for billions of years and growing with interest.
So what I want to be really clear about is that our minds and our intelligence is in a sense a surveillance game.
And let me be really demonstrative about how this is true.
You've all seen an excellent sports team.
And you can see how their focused attention and mutual surveillance and how the surveillance of the other team and their mutual attention turns into action.
And these two together reach for excellence.
Now they seem to be competing but they're improving each other, right?
Of course this is a fictional competition over fictional goals that have no real meaning and actually burn down our intelligence.
Don't give us roles except as consumers and spectators.
And we get wildly excited about this to the point of even being willing to kill each other.
One of the highest paid jobs in the educational field in the United States is a sports team coach.
But that's a fake collective that fights fake battles for phony gains.
How is it that that could be so terribly popular?
But we have no analog that does the same to solve the lethal problems that are wiping out our families, the history of life on Earth,
our ecosystems, our possibilities of intelligence, and our ability to unify, communicate and become human together.
How could we have just the representation and basically nearly none of what that representation should be sort of a flamboyant celebration of?
But this is in fact our current situation.
So our own minds and our relationships are born in a, strangely enough, a surveillance environment.
And in fact we used to have imaginary friends which were imaginary ways of being in self-surveillance except they weren't entirely imaginary.
And this idea that we have about imagination is vastly confused, believe me.
What the imagination is is pretty much everything that matters, not that funny thing off in the corner that just makes stuff up.
Actually, the people who say that's just your imagination had to use their imagination to make that statement and so they are very confused.
What I really want to get at is this.
Why do we have millions of false authorities and none we can trust?
And when I say none, I mean really nearly none.
Almost all of our collectives, almost all of our species of authority and instances of it are completely fictional.
And in fact what we call corporations are actually known to be legal fictions.
They are something we made up.
Now, I want to talk about the two major players here which are in authority, which are science and religion.
Now in and of themselves, as knowledge ways, they are both blameless because the word science is just a word that has to do with a method.
And the word religion actually means relinking.
It's just a word that has to do with methods.
Now these methods are a little bit different.
They're somewhat opposed and they tend to oppose each other in a way not entirely dissimilar to how our brain hemispheres oppose and inform and interact with each other.
In a way I have nothing to compete with machines just to talk to you right now.
Isn't that interesting?
Who will win?
In what period of time?
Science and religion.
So this is a way of knowing.
There's no problem with a way of knowing by itself until it's taken up by collectives and enacted.
And this is a way of knowing.
No problem again by itself with a way of knowing until it's taken up by collectives and enacted.
Now if these collectives, if their goals and ideas and relationships are true to nature, to ecology, to the history and meaning of life on earth,
and to our needs as living beings and intelligences, then they will tend to produce reasonably survivable results.
In our case we have the opposite.
So what science tends to produce when enacted by false collectives, which are pretty much the only kind we have,
is lethal technologies that will wipe out everything and claim to be blameless.
Let me be really clear.
Since 1940 we've had 2100 nuclear explosions on earth.
That's a full scale nuclear war that no one has even noticed.
Our city blocks are surrounded by large mechanical viruses that are wiping out life on earth.
Again, people talk about problems with populations.
They don't even notice the problems with machine populations, which are exploding and burgeoning all around us.
Just as if our minds, lives, bodies and intelligences were surrounded by viruses.
In fact you can hear those viruses competing with my own voice right now for your attention.
See, they're talking to you and they are dead and you are competing with them and so am I.
And every living being that has a voice is competing with them,
but those beings that have no voice are just being wiped out by them.
Wholesale, billions per hour, just burnt down.
So science as an authority when it's enacted and embodying falsified human collectives
that have no purposive intelligence, no relational intelligence.
That's about as lethal as you can get. That's far more lethal than religion.
There's nothing religion ever did in the history of life on earth
that came anywhere close to the atrocity, the constant ongoing atrocity
that our relationship with scientific authorities has given us
and brings into our lives as our own bodies, minds, activities
as the threats that we cannot face and survive.
There's no knowledge way on earth more lethal than science in its current incarnation
as it is enacted by false human collectives.
That will snuff life on earth in about one geological second
and we are inside that second right now.
Now that might be 10 years, it might be 50, it might be 100,
but it will wipe us out and it is wiping us out right now.
And you can't gather statistics fast enough to see the 100,000 domains
that grow each moment in which it's wiping us out.
There's no way your statistics can catch up to the atrocity
that science as technology is making us into.
So over here you have what everyone thinks is the golden boy
of human intelligence, science.
Right now, that's the single most lethal force on our world
next to just the ignorance that keeps us from forming real human collectives.
That's the number one problem, by the way,
is the ideas and the fictional goals, purposes, hypotheses
that we become in order to avoid being human,
in order to avoid being ecologically and relationally intelligent,
in order to avoid the transcendence, much more than sentience,
which is our birthright and how we are born as living beings on earth.
Earth is something we have no idea about.
Our models of what it means to be a world are so broken
that they're not even worth talking about.
And I can show you various ways in which that's true.
That's not really my goal here.
For the moment, I want to turn to religion.
What science produces is ways to leverage force into technology.
This is then adopted by false collectives and enacted wildly,
all around, within and everywhere on earth.
Now, just to hit one more point on science.
Science gave us a poisoning way.
So unbelievably shocking that we've now
multiply poisoned every single organism on earth
with industrial and technological toxins.
We've also poisoned every communications domain with noise.
Nothing alive can survive that.
Religion couldn't hope to accomplish that in its wildest dreams.
Moreover, the primary dangers that religion poses
are wildly amplified by science,
because science provides the technology
with which religious fanatics attack each other,
themselves, us, and the world.
So again, claiming that science is somehow noble
and religion is somehow screwy is badly messed up.
Science is far more lethal than religion
and actually supplies insane people with the technological leverage
to enforce death, oppression, prisons,
and just outright rape and murder on whomever they feel
divinely inspired to impose that on.
Science is not clean.
Science is not yet human.
And science has practiced by false collectives is lethal.
Science produces technological leverage on force
and ideas that we can objectively ascertain
about our environment, nature, and energy relationships.
Religion is also very confused
and can be quite deadly to our intelligence,
but it doesn't tend to have the same scope, right?
It can't really leverage a threat against every life form on earth.
Unless science helps it with things like guns, nuclear weapons, radiation,
biotoxins, stuff like that.
So what I want to be really clear about is that
science tends to produce, how should I put it?
Abstractions of force, leverageable technology.
Religion tends to produce beliefs.
And beliefs are a kind of relational technology,
but they posit, in almost every case,
a supreme authority, a surveyor, right?
Science also posits a surveyor.
Science's surveyor doesn't believe in anything, isn't human,
and is abstract.
Religion's surveyor doesn't have to have any beliefs
and is kind of a fictional superintelligence, yeah?
Both of these are fictional superintelligences, science and religion.
They're both wrong,
because they're not being guided by anything intelligent, human, or alive.
They're just hypothetical.
Of the two, both attack our intelligence in different ways.
Science by excluding life and being, which it has to do to be science.
Science can't include living beings in any reasonable way,
and in fact, most biologists and most branches of science
are happily willing to torture every living being on Earth
or thousands of billions of beings every day all day long to get data.
They think that torturing living beings is just fine,
as long as you get some data that you could help the fictional collectives with.
Excuse me?
That would be like shotgunning your mom to get her x-ray,
and then going like, I wonder why she died?
I was just trying to... oh, in fact, that's what x-rays are.
They shotgun you with radiation.
Now, religion is very problematical,
because it similarly installs false authorities
in our inward surveillance environment that we use to become ourselves.
By the way, when children play together,
that's a form of intimate surveillance.
When people make love, that's mutual,
they're touching each other, they're feeling and touching, they're intimate.
We live in and out of surveillance, but we don't understand this.
And we need to, because the way that our minds and psyches work
is intimately linked with these authorities and surveillance.
So what I really want to clear up here
is that all of the authorities that build fictional collectives,
which is nearly all of our authorities,
are horribly misguided.
And the ideas that are produced in the technologies,
the beliefs, the books, they're lethally wrong.
And if we were to believe them for even a moment,
we begin to die to ourselves.
Our intelligence just shrivels up.
And in that situation, we immediately have fear,
which builds the power of the false authorities,
and then we turn to them even more compulsively, more addictively.
This is psychosis.
This is the nature of the problems that we have.
All of our problems, the most significant roots of them,
are based in believing, following, belonging to,
supporting, and failing to pose false authorities.
Science as a way of knowing is useful when guided by purpose,
ecological, and relational intelligence.
So you've got to have that expert surrounded by a ring
of other intelligences who guide their progress and goals.
Otherwise, lethal.
Religion is the same way.
And religion is one of those guiding authorities for science.
Science is one of those guiding authorities for religion.
But unleashed from that guidance, unleashed from all of that other intelligence,
these two authorities are deadly,
and they are both false because there is no objective universe
in which it's okay to torture living beings for data
or to forget all of the effects of your accomplishments.
That's what science does.
They just want to pretend, hey, we didn't make nuclear war.
We didn't poison everything in the environment.
We didn't fill the entire communications domains with lethal noise.
We just gave you the ability to do that.
And then you did it.
Well, actually, they're dead wrong about that.
They did it.
Religion is the same thing.
We're not being evil.
We're not creating hell on earth.
We're not damning you to a life that is the kind of hell
that we're projecting for afterlives and things
if you don't believe our absolutely absurd ideas
of advanced intelligence above us that just judges us
as though we're a criminal court system.
No.
Religion doesn't take any responsibility for their assault
on intelligence and living beings.
Science takes none for its.
So we need to guide them.
First of all, we're going to have to become intelligent together.
And part of that is learning how to form authentic,
purposive, relationally intelligent collectives
within for the history of life on earth
and discovering what that means and can be
within for each other, within for our world
and all of the living ecologies that remain for the moment
are relatively poisoned but intact
and for the future of life on earth.
Without that guidance, our authorities become tyrannies
and we are converted to fuel, defenders,
reproductive organs for them.
We spout their news.
We spout their lies.
We spout their fictional proclamations, declarations.
And then we try to convert each other.
There's nothing deadlier than that.
A tree in nature is an interesting authority.
The sun is an interesting authority that does not speak.
Gravity is a kind of authority.
Light, intelligence, communication,
but they don't look like what we are doing.
They don't look like our beliefs.
They don't look like our ideas.
Before I go, I want to sort of invite everyone
to consider some really astonishing possibilities
that we've overlooked.
I'd like you to consider that our world
isn't actually a single world.
That it's an instance of all worlds
and every moment of every world in all of time
so that everything we do here
becomes our signature on those other worlds.
And that the animals and the plants and the ecosystems
are actually the living presence
of those other worlds and moments here on earth.
And that what we call our mind is a way of participating
with all of time, all of intelligence,
and all of space here as myself right now.
A way of being whole in distinction
and ever more whole in my own distinction.
What this means is that we've completely overlooked
99.9% of what it means to have a mind
or to be a human being or to be alive.
And as someone who's had a taste of
what that 99% contains,
let me try to explain to you that
if you were to get a taste,
you would forget about religion altogether.
You would forget about science
except as a pastime.
You'd have no interest in sports or films.
You would have an ecstasy
and a way of learning so shockingly profound
that never again could you know boredom or fear.
You would in fact know something like
the living mind of beauty.
And it is so powerfully intelligent
that in your first exposures to it
you will be hard pressed to survive.
We get a taste together
and I intend to ensure we do.
Thank you for joining me.
Bye bye for now.
