Hey everybody.
It's very wintry for where I live,
which just means it's cold rather than it's snowing.
The winter is a very challenging time for all living beings.
Many of them perish each winter.
Solstice is coming
the day after tomorrow, the rebirth of the sun,
when the days begin to become longer again.
And of course we celebrate Christmas,
which is a particularly special day for me.
We're about three days into the current moon cycle,
maybe four.
I could almost remember the black foot word for this cycle.
I don't have a lot to say today, I want to
express my profound gratitude
for the privilege of being alive together in this time,
and for the beautiful gifts of being human,
for all of the conflicts and confusion and insanity.
Deep inside us, there's a home for virtue,
for kindness, for compassion, for wisdom, for care,
for reverence, for awe, for wonder, for joy, for play,
for creativity, for healing one another,
for caring for one another.
And if the season has a spirit,
this is its spirit in me.
And so I wanted to take a moment to convey
my blessings and my gratitude to everyone
in all the living beings, in all the living places,
and the paradisical living world that is our home
and our origin.
And as you all know, I'm very concerned about our world
and our people and all the living beings.
But I just want to take a brief moment
and wish you all a joyful and healing,
a reassuring and calming beauty in your moment,
in your life, in your life path.
May all the wise beings watch over you
and guide you, teach you and protect you,
help you in your struggles and your path.
May you know their presence in your life
and be thus reassured.
Let us together hold special compassion
for those who are suffering and isolated,
hungry, sick, with child, alone, broken, lost.
May we hold special compassion
together for all of those beings who are suffering.
May we not merely hold such compassion
but let us reach out to them in ways that are appropriate
for our lives and for the situations we find ourselves in.
I am very grateful to be alive,
to have a human body, a human mind
and the astonishing opportunities that human birth brings,
however severely they may be inhibited.
Perhaps together we can liberate our interiority,
our spirit, our souls and our minds.
Who knows, maybe even our cultures,
from the terrible forces that prevail and dominate over them.
Most of them forces of absence.
I wish you all a wonderful moment, wonderful day,
beautiful holidays
and I am very grateful for those of you who wander the path alongside me.
Thank you, my friends and companions.
Thank you.
Thank you.
