Humans are what we might call a very special kind of animal.
There's only one that we know of, and this kind of animal, unlike others, has multiple
modes of speciation, and most of them aren't physical.
So it's as if it shunts some of its evolutionary momentum into cognitive domains, relational
domains, technological domains, ideological domains, and heuristic domains, or intellectual
domains, learning domains, formal learning domains.
So this is a really weird kind of animal, and we're the only one of those around here.
And the one thing we really, the one technology that we really don't know hardly anything
about is the one from which all the others spring.
In other words, we don't know much about representational cognition, the stuff we use to know.
And it's ironic that rather than learning about the foundations of our abilities and
the dangers of our abilities as representational animals, we kind of fall down into all the
different branches of what that can become, as if there's a gravity down there that keeps
us from developing our foundational skills and seeing their true opportunities and dangers,
and keeps us fascinating, excuse me, fascinated with one branch of derivatives or another,
and we're not only fascinated with those branches, we become them.
We actually act them out, we live them out, we form minds based on them.
And this is a really peculiar and dangerous property.
If you just look at life on Earth as though you weren't from here, which is fairly easy
for most of us to imagine, you can see that there's a war on Earth between the representational,
formally representational cognitive animal and every other life form on Earth and every
other community of life on Earth.
And those animals also attack themselves.
And what's the kind of final capping irony is that they attack the basis of their own
intelligence with the results of their intelligence, rather than developing their own intelligence
and foundational faculties and skills and assets that are the nature of our human birthright.
We acquire habits and imperatives that cause us to consistently assault them with their
own extensions.
In case you're wondering like, well, what would a good analogy if that be, there's lots
of crazy ones.
One would be like, if your index finger decided that it should rule all of humanity and all
of life on Earth and just started attacking anything that didn't look like an index finger,
including you, that's one analogy.
But there's another analogy that we're all very familiar with.
If you've ever had inflammation or if you've ever had an allergy or any kind of immune
disorder, then you know that it's possible for your body to become confused about what
comprises itself and what comprises something else so that the parts of your body that defend
yourself from dangerous intruders begin attacking your body's own systems so that your defenders
are attacking you.
Now if you weren't, you know, if you wanted a similar analogy, you could just look at the
situation with what we call law enforcement and policing in the United States.
You can see that the aspect of the analogical, right, the analogy or our culture is, if we
take it as the analogy of a body, the aspect that represents the immune system is not only
attacking its own members and is itself terrifyingly corrupt, it attacks itself too.
It's also, one of its extended members is attacking not just random other enclaves of
people on earth, but life itself on earth, attacking life itself.
In fact, just to test the military technologies that we use, we have to wipe out whole ecosystems
and, you know, we don't count that interestingly enough.
Apparently we think that the ecosystems and us are two separate things, which is much like
the index finger thinking that it's separate from you.
Of course, it is separate in a way, but not in the way that anything will survive if it
starts attacking you or itself.
So we can see that the representational animal is incredibly confused and that instead of
developing and understanding the foundational powers and faculties and their dangers and
opportunities, we've gotten very excited about what we can make and do and think and
see with them.
So excited that we'll make and do and see anything at all that's possible.
Atomic bombs, you know, weapons of unimaginable destruction, the masquerade as benefits, anything
you can imagine we're happy to make billions of them just because we can.
And the only costs that we account for are representations of costs, money.
And since animals and living places, children, women, families are humanity, since those
don't appear in bank accounts, you can wipe those out, turn them into money and pretend
they never existed.
You can also blame the people you stole them from.
It's a fascinating process.
But I want to get at something kind of interesting here.
One of the dangers of our representational heritage is that we can get a really wrong
idea about what things are.
Language and habits of thinking can cause us to grossly misunderstand the identity of
some of the phenomenon and beings and situations that we find ourselves not only immersed in,
but emerging from and acting upon.
And so there are some root ideas in what I call a metonymic web.
And a good metonymic web will produce sustainable, self-educating super-function.
A bad metonymic web will cause everything to break down and intelligence to attack itself
and just about everything else that moves.
Obviously we don't have any good metonymic webs left, and even the things that used to
sustain these webs have become corrupt.
So that we would have to reassemble them together, have any chance of knowing what it's like
to be a formal representational animal with a relatively dependable metonymic web underneath
your language so that your sense of identity could not be easily corrupted, or how should
we put it, mimicked, counterfeited.
And one of the primary organs in the human metonymic web is what is an animal.
So if you've got a really crude, or bad, or wrong, or fake idea, or abstract idea about
what an animal is, turns out you can't have the right idea about anything at all.
Every other idea you make will be broken in more ways than the bad idea that you have
about the animal is broken, because the idea of animal is multiple folded into every other
idea.
To know what ideas are, you have to be an animal, see how it works.
So whatever you think an animal is, is part of what you think you are, is part of what
you think thinking is.
You've got the wrong idea about what that is, you're not going to be able to think.
And language has a structure that we can't see that depends on this feature.
Much more intricately than my somewhat confusing example implies.
So I want to give you just a simple example of how confused we are about what an animal
is, and maybe we can get a little bit of correction on this one token in our metonymic web, this
one link.
For most of our life, science has told us that you're a human being and you're made
of DNA, and evolution is the process whereby, how should we put it, vehicles of DNA are
replicated and compete for survival, and the winners get to reproduce to put it very crudely.
And there are some other features of the factional theory, meaning it's not just a theory, it's
a fact.
It's both a theory and an absolute fact that go along with this word.
So things absolutely do evolve, and we are not yet entirely clear on what that means.
We're still early in the process, and it doesn't tell us what life is.
The fact that we notice that life forms evolve doesn't tell us that evolution is what life
forms do.
That just happens to be one mechanical process that we manage to get a rigorous grasp on.
Evolution definitely doesn't tell us what life forms are or what they do, yet language
implies that, and many people think that way, possibly including many scientists.
That's completely backwards.
It would be a little bit like thinking that writing is what brains do.
Libraries are what brains do.
Sure, that's a tiny part of what one aspect of brains do, and it's very formal, and you
can see there they are the libraries.
Brains do that.
So it's a fact, but it doesn't mean that that's what brains are, and it doesn't mean
that that's what brains do.
That's a thing that's correlated with the existence of their being brains.
So evolution is correlated with the existence of life forms.
It doesn't tell us what they do, since obviously they do a great number of many things, many
which we have failed to even notice, or let alone classify.
Evolution is one of the things that is integral to the processes of life as we understand
it here, but doesn't define it, so we shouldn't make that mistake.
But there's another more interesting feature here that I'd like to point out.
In our fascination with the discovery of DNA, and particularly certain kinds of medicines
like antibiotics, which we use as what we think of as weapons against disease, unfortunately
we overlooked 90% of what animals are, and plants too, and not just animals, but insects
and all, you know, fishes and all the forms of life.
So if you took a cellular census of your body, and lots of people have heard this, but they
don't really think about the significance of it, you took a cellular census of your
body, what you'd find is that approximately 90% of you, 90, isn't human, at all.
It didn't come from your mother and your father getting together, 90% of you didn't
come, in terms of cell numbers, didn't come from your mother and father getting together.
90% of you came from every moment of relation of life on Earth, in the entire history of
life on Earth, and wherever it may have come from.
90% of you is that, 10% of you is the animal cells that carry the DNA that science tells
you about, and that evolution is focused on.
By the way, evolution is ignoring that other 90%.
So we might be overlooking something, don't you think?
And when they talk about your DNA, well actually, they're talking about the DNA in the 10%
of the animal cells that come from your mother and father getting together in that moment
when the sky and the Earth came together, there was lightning and you were conceived.
So we might have the wrong idea what an animal is, since science has had the wrong idea about
what we are for a long, long time, and not only has it had the wrong idea, but it had
been presenting 10% as the whole.
So if 90% of you isn't human, what is that other 90%?
And if, you know, you're 90% something else, we might want to realize that, for example,
your brain, that everyone talks about like a computer, that they think they know what
it does, ideas which are ridiculous by the way, is floating in 90% of something we're
not even talking about, and is constantly informed by all that relation.
So we've been looking at the tiniest part of what it means to be human, or an animal
or anything, when some large percentage, maybe not 90 in all cases, of plants, animals,
you know, insects, fishes, crustaceans, snails, everything, right, is bacterial.
And what is that bacterial stuff? Well, it's like liquid life. It goes everywhere.
You touch someone's hand and you guys exchange it. You kiss and you exchange it, right? Dogs
lick you, and you get it all in you. And it has a much more rapid evolutionary temporality
than us, right? The evolutionary temporality of humans, right, in physical evolution is
extremely slow. I'm not sure what the order of it is. I don't know, tens of thousands
of years. Some of the processes are probably a little faster. Some might even happen in
a few lifetimes. But for bacteria, the evolutionary clock is ticking at like, I'm going to be
a little bit arbitrary here, but it's something like, I don't know, a year per hour, right?
And since there's 350 trillion of them in you, and a year is an hour, your microbial
components are evolving at an incomprehensible rate of speed. And everything you touch or
eat or don't eat, the sunlight, what you're exposed to, all of these things change very
rapidly, your microbial populations and their balances, which clearly inform all the other
systems in your body, since 90% of the cells aren't animal cells. And if you took the
90% of your bacterial cells away, you die really, really quickly, so you wouldn't be able to
be human without 10% if you left. And interestingly, you know, evolution is probably very similar,
right? We've got a hold on a very rigorous and astonishing discovery, but we tend to
see all of nature through that discovery. Unfortunately, we've been looking only at
the germline, right? So if that's 10% of you and 10% of everything, we've probably been
trying to see, you know, nature through a lens that is incredibly narrow, and we've
been in a very narrow sense of, you know, evolution. And it inclines us to only see
its products wherever we look and dismiss everything else. One of the reasons we
dismissed everything else is we couldn't find a vehicle of transformation, right? We
couldn't find a vehicle of transmission of traits, yeah, or perhaps some assets that
but we're swimming in a vehicle that has to be transmitting all kinds of
things that probably we don't even have ideas about yet, not just across
reproductive gaps, across every kind of gap you can imagine, including species
gaps, right? You can acquire commensal bacteria from contact with a wasp or the
dirt or a dog or an object that a raccoon brushed against, and those
commensal bacteria, the ones that survive in the ecosystem of your body, will
become your own, inform your own, replicate, change with your populations, and so
on. So we probably have the wrong idea about what an animal is, and since
that's one of the most central ideas to all of our other ideas, it's kind of
subtly included so that if you've got the wrong idea, you're gonna get the wrong
idea about everything, and if you don't know what an animal is, you won't know
what anything is, since animals, of course, like us, make concepts. We're really a lot
more confused than we think, and all of our scientific advancement and all of
our technological advancement is incredibly deceptive, because we've
failed to even moderately advance the underlying faculties that would make
those useful to us, and instead, by doing so, we've made them dangerous. We're
using a tiny, highly articulate tool in a world that we don't understand and
become blind to because the tool has, we now see the word world through the tool
rather than through the eyes of intelligent, relational, human, animal
beings. Now there's a lot of other ways that we don't understand what an animal
is, but interestingly, we've just been playing with an idea that can help us
correct what an organism is, what an insect is, what a fish is, what a snail or a
slug is, what a plant is, and what a human being is, even what a mind is, because I
guess we thought that minds were things that are made of human cells. Well, it's
not entirely untrue, but since they're floating in a bath and intimately
relating with what we might as well imagine as an alien life form, billions
of years old, it's not exactly the way we thought. Most of the ideas that we
have, ideas about what the sun is, what light is, what time is, what it means to
have eyes or minds or hands are similarly, they've been similarly denuded of many
dimensions of obvious factual meaning and identity and qualities that we need to
retrieve if we're to have the hope of becoming intelligent together. No one's
going to help us with this, so the task falls to us. We have to become the
pioneers ourselves, do the work ourselves, learn and teach and discover
and correct and explore in the most sober manner possible together. Hopefully
we've had a moment of that here today and I want to thank you for spending your
time and having the interest to wander through the forests of the origins of
the strange faculty of formal representational cognition and the great
mystery of why there's only one animal like that that we've discovered so far
and what the true implications of that might be and could become if we were
able to actually take advantage of it rather than being mostly subject to its
dangers and their rather terrifying outcomes.
