Hi everybody. Welcome to my neighborhood.
Normally, these days when you see me making videos, I'm outside and most often I'm in
the Botanical Gardens, which is the coolest really living place somewhere near me.
Although, there's another pretty weird living place near me, even though all this stuff
is owned, which I find really bizarre. When people own living places, which there aren't
really any non-living places, so all places which are owned are actually living places,
and they're covered in this kind of shit, and this kind of crap, and dominated by these
kinds of things. And apparently, this situation, which you can see replicated here, is generally
understood to be good. It's good because dead stuff is predictable, and when most of
the stuff that's unpredictable is dead, you're really likely to think that your predictions
are very powerful, and you're very intelligent, and your knowledge is good. Now, back in some
of the creation stories from some of our sky books, books about what everything is
and what you're supposed to do, some of those creation stories imply that there might be
some kind of a problem with knowledge. So, those of you who know me, who actually have
spoken with me, have certainly heard me riff a lot on Genesis, and I don't riff a lot on
Genesis because I'm Hebrew, though I like to think that part of me is. I don't riff a lot
on Genesis because I'm religious, though in a sense, part of me is. Or rather, it's weirder
than that, but let's just say I don't dismiss out of hand the remnants of the evolution of our
human minds and societies. I was attempting not to inhale an insect there a moment ago,
in case for those of you who are super observant. In the Genesis story, we were exiled from the
garden, quote unquote, at least that's one way of thinking about it. One of the things I like to do
when I'm outside is reverse that situation. I like to go to the garden. One of the things I like
about these large white daisies is that some of them, why would people be wearing masks inside
their houses? That doesn't seem good, although the wearing masks thing, I'm down with that. I have my
bandana, which I use, and I'll mention later why I said that, if I remember and stay on thread.
So in this Genesis story, there's this problem with knowledge. It's really important that we
understand. There's a lot of key features in that story that have nothing to do with whether
you're religious or not. If you don't understand them, trouble is coming your way. By the way,
here is a female crab spider. I hope I got her in the viewfinder. This is why I like these daisies,
is that they have these female crab spiders on them, and sometimes males. Remember I was saying,
I really like these daisies? Well, that's the reason. Ambush predators are really interesting to
me, but I like pretty much everything that's alive. From the tiny things, to the gigantic things,
to the separate things, to the connected things, to the unified one planet of living being thing,
all that stuff. I love that stuff. Oh, here's some more great things to love. So there's all
the stuff to love here. I'm going to get distracted by loving it. Count on it. I mean,
there's hummingbirds, and it's evening, and it's Independence Day, but I'm going to talk about
dependence and independence, but in a different kind of way. Because I don't think whatever the heck
we're supposed to be celebrating is pretty sketchy at this point, to put it mildly. Now,
here's the thing that could actually just be a fire, but instead it's a flower, right? Well,
that just looked like a fire. I mean, this is like an organism that's just blatantly trying to
emulate Van Gogh, right? When Van Gogh looked at the sun, he saw stuff like this, right?
But yeah, I mean, it's crazy. There's so many things to love here in the garden. And there's
the story that the garden that sort of our people made some kind of mistake where there was a bad
accident or something. And then after that, our people were exiled from the garden, or we exiled
ourselves, or something was all wonky. And that is a really important story. And I can speak about
that one at length. And I am of a mind to do so. So I'm going to be careful not to, because I have
other goals tonight. And I don't have too much time till the sun goes down. There's something I
madly love. Yes, yes, yes, living beings. They're awesome. So in that story, there's some kind of a
problem between sort of the first maybe like what we could imagine is the boys are going to be hard
to pick language here. The celestial template of femininity or something like this, right? I'm going
to pretend that the Eve sort of vaguely resembles this bizarre language. And some kind of a thing that
makes divisions as it goes. Really important idea. When a snake travels, right, when a serpent travels,
divides the world into two is that side of its path over here, and this side over here. And he
signs have been now divided by the passage of this wave like thing that goes like this and slithers
and stuff. Not to mention the fact that it resembles other things, right? So Eve gets in trouble with
something referred to as a serpent in English. I should know the Hebrew word. But again, it's not my
goal to tell this story tonight. I'm just going to reference it briefly. And a tree that is not
merely in the midst of the garden, but something far more interesting. It is the umbilicus of the
garden. That's what is meant by midst or something much more like this is meant by midst. It's not
middle. And the humans are told, you know, don't mess with that tree in the midst. And it's kind of
like they're being told don't mess with the umbilicus of the earth. Because something's hanging out
there. One of the other kinds of children is hanging out out there. And if you two kinds of kids get
together, you're going to show each other your toys, and it's going to be a big problem. Because
you're going to then have knowledge. You will know stuff. And I know this is going to seem like a
really exciting and good thing. And for, you know, thereafter, if you do this, it's going to be
about the best thing you have, which won't be very good compared to what you'll lose to get it.
And I can't say precisely what it is that gets lost that way. But it's something we might call
innocence. And it's also something that we might refer to as intimate participation in being.
In the incredibly ecstatic layers of co-reverential,
adorative beingness that are the garden.
And so that'll be a lot like death. In fact, God says don't do this or you'll die.
And the serpent, for his part, kind of gets loyally about it. He goes, well, you won't actually die.
God was being hyperbolic. We'll actually know he was being metaphoric or
simileistic or analogical. He meant a part of you, you really don't even understand exists because
you're never separate from it, will go away. And that's part of what knowledge does. And by the way,
in case it isn't clear, knowledge is a game of cutting things into parts and arranging them
into little skeletal fucking maps and shit. So you probably don't want to trade intimacy
for something like that. I don't want to photograph of the skeleton of my mother,
even though, hey, I'll get some knowledge from it. It isn't that knowledge isn't
amazing as somebody who has always been inclined toward intellectuality. They're not merely that.
And love, I love learning. I absolutely love to learn. And unfortunately, I think I know things.
It's surprising how knowledge kills off stuff like passion and curiosity and insight. Now,
it doesn't do it all by itself. There's other things that help like context and situation,
peer pressure, stuff that makes you dumber, like our relationships with machines, particularly
mostly with computers and televisions and shit like that. Though there are exceptions.
There are ways to use these technologies that at least, I mean, we have the same problem with
language. Language makes us dumber unless we're really, really careful about how we use it.
Because once you know the name of something, you think, you know what that something is,
and that's knowledge. Now, as you can see, it doesn't really matter how much what you know
about something that is, right? It ends the mystery. And when the mystery ends,
the participation ends, and you get a little tokenized piece of junk that you can start your
friend to say, that's a tree, right? And you can confidently believe that you know what that is,
because you know its name. And knowledge is like this, knowledge masquerades as intimacy and
participation, a true understanding when in fact, most of the time, what knowledge gives us is
overstanding. So we humans have a problem with knowledge to put it mildly. You also get problems
like society's so stupid that their scientific discoveries are absolutely lethal because of
the uses to which they will be put. And that actually gets you killed. That's real death,
right? And all kinds of other difficult problems that I'm not here to talk about much today.
But I just wanted to
park and back to this idea of independence. You know, there's some good kinds of independence,
and there's some really bad kinds of independence. And independence from sanity or insight,
or from the source of being, or from the umbilicus that connects us to nature is death.
You die. Congratulations, you're now independent, and you're gone, right? Or most of you is gone,
or the most important parts of you are gone. And what happened, in a way, in the story in the
garden, one way of thinking about it, and there are lots of really useful, intelligent ways to
understand this story. This is a story of a great and terrible accident that is not bullshit,
and it has nothing to do with whether you believe in God or not. You want to understand
this fucking story. Most likely, it's the remnant of long-lost, like, those books at the beginning
of the Bible, very unlikely they were written in the forms they have today. They look to me like
the stitched-together fragments of a lost entire book, right? Ooh, Feral Black Cat.
Very interested in that. I'm going to have to check that out,
because I know some black cats around here that are important to me, or at least the
spirit of one that used to be that's really important to me. We can have intelligent
relationships with knowledge, partly by understanding it's dangerous. The same good is true of language.
And some people think that knowledge is a lot like the stuff that comes out of these,
which are the beehives at the top of the garden. Very important idea. Above the garden,
there were beehives. They aren't mentioned in the book, but above the garden,
which is an analog of something itself, there was another analog that was the analog of bees.
And from the assets in the garden, those meta-bees make something like meta-honey.
You know, it's funny. Explosions make people independent.
One good explosion, thousands of people become immediately independent.
And all that stuff we like about lights in the sky and blah, blah, blah,
that stuff's all metaphors. It's physical metaphors of things we've never seen,
but those things are the metaphors of insight or sudden, unexpected,
catastrophically ecstatic awakening to the fundamental nature of being or
to an intimate relationship with a living place or living beings. Those things we call fireworks.
Those are analogs of something we are supposed to be able to experience.
The humans have this problem with representing things, especially relationships.
Money is one of those representations. It's not a good thing.
In any case, independence. Well, of course, people will say,
Darren, come on, we're talking about the establishment of the United States and its
independence from Britain, which was a tyrannical oligarchy, and I'll say, yeah,
and look how far we've come. No, I would say other things. I would talk about sea pirates and
the indigenous people and the land before our arrival, our, not meaning mine and yours,
but the ancestors of this country, who I don't necessarily feel entirely responsible for the
actions of. I am not those people. In any case, the kind of independence that I think is really
interesting and potentially good is the kind where usually after many years of some difficult
meditative discipline, someone cuts through the mind. They escape the mind, the mind labyrinth.
The labyrinth of I am myself and I know these things and, you know, this
this weird kind of problem that we have where
we are at once distinct and among many others of our kind. We are independent and dependent.
So one of the kinds of independence that I think is good, and there are a number,
you know, there's ways of enacting this idea that aren't implicitly only toxic.
Obviously, we are absolutely dependent on what we refer to as nature or living places and living
beings for our lives. So if you were to become independent from that, you'd be dead.
And also you'd stop participating in the living beings and their relationships and their places.
And if those living beings and their relationships and their places that keep you alive
just become commodities, which you exchange tokens to kill and torture, then you're dying.
And that's a kind of living death because those living places and beings and things that we refer
to as food, those are our own bodies and minds. They just happen to be outside the specific
local body of Daren or at least that's one of the ways that I am inclined to understand what's
going on. It's not the truth. It's an as if story. It's a model. It's a theory.
There are kinds of independence, right? Independence from insanity, real insanity,
independence from tyrannical monarchies and oligarchies and plutocracies and aristocracies
and shit like this. You know, if intelligently enacted, pretty good stuff.
I'm kind of a fan of meritocracies in general, but I wouldn't get too severe about it.
Partially because I'm not a huge fan of complex hierarchies. In any case, we're
dependently independent all the time. But what I want to talk about today is dependence.
Now, I know a number of very intelligent people and I know a number of very skillful people.
So, and I know some very creative people and I know people who are pretty sober,
so we're minded, right? Like the knowledge and intelligence they're inclined to share and
produce is relatively trustworthy, relatively within the contexts where it's trustworthy
and not beyond them. Knowledge is generally trustworthy in contexts. Humans, we humans
derive our roles primarily from contexts and specifically from relationships within contexts.
So, we kind of unconsciously read the context usually, although sometimes consciously.
And then we unconsciously kind of read the roles and relationships in there,
sometimes somewhat consciously. And then we start to play at one of those roles and build
relationships within the context and hopefully nurture them. And, or you know, we run away
from that whole thing because it's terrifying and imposes a kind of inner social simulation
of the possibility of being judged by the people or roles or relationships in the context. It's
very complicated, all this stuff. However, there's a couple of simple facts that are useful. And one is,
it's very difficult to understand a situation when you yourself are in it by yourself.
And the necessity of having to do this drives people insane. And for many of us, it's not
that short of a trip because most of us contain the seeds of various kinds of insanity. And if those
seeds are properly nurtured by isolation, individualism, stress, deprivation, intoxication, or accident,
misadventure, if those seeds get properly nourished, we have full blown insanity.
We become psychotic or schizophrenic or we become
subject to mania or bipolar disorder or borderline personality disorder or whatever.
A particular little specialization of insanity happens to get the most water in the right
circumstances to become floridly expressed in and as our consciousness. And that is a miserable
situation, although some forms of genius depend on something very similar or even are sub-symptoms
of madness. And this is a very peculiar thing, which is not to be confused with the assertion
that madness is prodigy. Now, back to dependencies and being dependent and being independent.
It has long been my experience that humans are what I would refer to as pod animals.
We're sort of a cross between pod animals and super organisms, but the weird thing is
in our resemblance to super organisms, we don't do what the super organisms tend to do,
like the hymenoptera, the ants, bees, and wasps, particularly those kinds that entermites,
they form a very complexly distributed organism. They're like a single organism distributed
in thousands of millions of bodies. And they may take coherence in all kinds of astonishing ways
that include pheromone transfer and caste or cased relations. And so you have soldiers and
workers and you have the queen and you have some males and things are weird. It's really
science fiction, but we don't serve the queen when we form super organisms. We serve representations,
and by exist, I mean to be alive in the domain of being, right? So we serve this kind of crap.
We serve tokens and representations. We form religions, which actually divide us from what
their story is about, ironically, and we suffer all kinds of other agonizing ironies and
repercussions of our hubris. When this happens to us, we perform super organisms. We call these
nations today and corporations are like them too. That's not the only way we can do it.
But if something is not at the center, something really deeply meaningful and alive and profound
isn't at the center of our unity as as peoples, as what we call nations or societies, then something
really malignant gets in there and starts producing representations, right? And this is part of what
religion is actually about, understanding whether or not you believe in anything having to do with
gods or metaphysics. There's a lot of knowledge that can be gleaned from understanding religions
without having to take them as being literal or even declarative of the nature of the divine or
the nature of origin or any of these things. It's a very sophisticated story, these religions.
In any case, we are pod animals. We are like dolphins or dog packs or maybe
prairie dog warrens, apes, chimpanzees, whales, orcas,
or pod animals. And what that means is that under, and you can see this in all of our
representational sort of departure from our actual nature, right? You can see this in
that we form, like the way we form military hierarchies and stuff, right? We have sports teams,
we form a number of differently titled military units and groupings and, you know,
our ships float in convoys, on and on and on, right? Just watch the humans and you'll see them
doing this everywhere you look, whether you're looking at a 7-Eleven, a university, an operating
theater, a film company, you name it, it's got these little organ things and it forms a union
out of like something like this, right? And the humans aren't really consciously aware
that this is one of their fundamental properties as animals and one of their relational priorities as
beings. But it is. And what we're used to doing, which we do very poorly when these
these little unions are represented rather than embodied, all of our otherwise amazing assets
fuck up and become pathological. And by the way, that's what happens when you get independent humans.
Just in case this isn't obvious to you, it's not a law, right? None of these things I'm saying are
laws. They are perspectives, they are frames we can use to see clearly into some aspects of
stuff that would otherwise confuse the fuck out of us and usually does.
And some of us, I'm not going to say that.
See, even in my own mind, I have already developed something that resembles a pod,
right? And what I mean by a pod is something not entirely unlike this, a group of each,
you know, relative, somewhat similar members that also have unique features, abilities,
senses, perspectives, capacities for insight and awareness and so on. And so, for example,
I could say it's not really true, but I could say that there is an aspect of my mind that is
concerned with threat detection, right? I just looked over my, did you see that? Right? Just as
I was about to speak of it, and that wasn't an intentional thing, I checked for trouble, right?
So you have an aspect that does threat detection and you can think of it, I don't agree in general
with doing this because there's much better models, but you could think of it as a computer
program because computer programs do something relatively similar. They run down a string of
sort of if-then-while loops over time and there's a timing aspect, right, that refreshes the screen
of my iPod every so, you know, every thousand times per second or whatever, 12,000, 75,000,
150,000. Things get refreshed and even though we don't see when we look at our computers operating,
this timeline of little, little functions, right, that each are unique and that together form a
coherent whole, something not entirely dissimilar from that is happening as our minds. Even though
I'm not a big fan of the mechanical metaphor because we don't resemble machines. Machines resemble
mechanical, mechanized functions, analogies of mechanized functions we are familiar with from
our minds and relationships and behaviors and such. So I'm in danger of running out of time,
but I have different aspects of my mind, right? There's a threat detector, there's an opportunity
detector, I have a sense of humor, I have emotions that may come online and respond to something
unexpectedly, where a moment ago I felt totally ordinary, I could feel really terrified in the
next moment or I could begin crying. I could even start right now to think about something that
will make me cry and start crying. We have aspects of the mind that like choose what to think about
and how often and when and why and then we have aspects of mind that explain all of that
and form theories and models and so there's all these little, little like organs we can think
of, we can imagine and I'd like you to imagine an organ trying to work by itself.
You know, imagine your brain with no body and no senses. Sound like fun? Imagine your heart
with no blood and no circulatory system. Think about your liver all by itself or your pancreas
or your lungs or any organ you care about, right? Your eye completely useless on its own.
So you can see that knowledge is kind of confusing because we have, we think of these organs as
separate and that's convenient for certain purposes but there's no such thing as a separate organ.
They all, they all are part of this union that is my body and that body is part of a union
that has all kinds of transports that extend into everything that has ever lived or will live,
in my view, but certainly I have relationships with everything that's alive right now for
absolutely certain zero mysteries or metaphysics needed.
Now when we're in pods that are good, we get the analogy of a family unit or a team. Now that
doesn't always work out well, particularly in modern situations, for reasons I probably don't
have to explain to you, but sometimes it does work out very well. There are families that are
unimaginably coherent and really function well together and they each have unique roles and
abilities and feelings of belonging and communion and reverence and awe and wonder and playfulness
that are natural to the kind of incredible scope of our humanity, most of which we don't get a lot
of experience of most of us, though some of us manage to do so even in these really strange
contexts that we're presently in. My point here, however, is that a point that can be made from
technology, in order to triangulate you need three positions. If you're inside a bad situation by
yourself, you're in trouble because you can't triangulate by yourself and we have the same
problem in language because most of us, myself included, only speak a single language, I speak
English formally, we cannot triangulate on identity from the perspective of multiple languages,
which would give us, we might as a person who could do that would be like a different species of
homo sapiens, cognitively, because the difference is like the difference between having one finger
and having five and even three fingers is a lot better than one. So what I'm trying to get at is
hot animals like us depend on relational, on significant relational others to triangulate
on meaning and identity and value and urgency and all kinds of things that I could go on forever
about. And when we're broken out of meaningful pods and placed in representations of pods,
we suffer and many of us go mad. But if we're in a particularly difficult situation, then we really
need close, sober-minded, not insane, intelligent, reliably intelligent, their knowledge is reliable
and we can feel confident in including them in our own minds and imaginations because we feel
confident they at least won't make things worse, right? They won't lead us astray and at best can
help us navigate and help to correct our inner compass when that compass has been replaced by
terror or crisis or poverty or illness or all five things and more or whatever I realize I only named
four. But you know, leave a spot for mystery. Why am I walking not in the garden? I'm walking,
oh I guess I just got tired of walking back and forth in the small little garden.
In any case, this won't be good. There's too many cars here.
When things get rough, we need more trustworthy, close relations to help us understand,
to help us manage and relate with unexpected
situations that deviate from the predictability that we expect from something that's mostly
not moving and just stays in one form all the time and that kind of crap. And by the way,
you can think of this, all this structure around here. You can think of that as like the crispy
surface of something under which there's something like hardened butter and under that there's something
like broiling butter and underneath that there's something like flowing water and what I'm getting
at is this is an overlay, right? It's an overlay of stability in certain dimensions of time, space
and relation that gives the illusion of predictable stability. And since we're commonly, we commonly
find ourselves in contexts like this, including inside our houses where everything's except maybe
our pets and if there's a plant blowing in the breeze, everything's still, it's all dead.
We made it so predictable that we don't have to attend it anymore so we can then just become
independent. In other words, go to sleep. In other words, be anesthetized.
And in those boxes, we are inclined to become anesthetized to life in relation and change and
meaning and adventure. Well, my point is simply when things get rough and unpredictable like they
are now in our culture, it's much more important then for us to forge Neo families, right? Allo
families. We need to belong to groups, even of three or four or five people that are really
meaningfully connected and that are orbiting something that is noble and beautiful and true,
inspiring, reassuring, intelligent, you know, heuristically
sophisticated in the right ways. We need sobriety, particularly in the sense of
resistance to overreaction, clear insight, concise communications. We need all these things but
essentially we need other trusted minds to sort of bounce ideas off of and bounce perceptions off of
and use to correct our own perceptions and help to guide us when we're injured or confused or sick
or there's a crisis, right? And what we're getting from our culture is the opposite of that. Not
surprisingly, you can use that to make all kinds of money and gather all kinds of power because once
the humans are disoriented, they are easily had. All of us are like that but our kind of animal
depends fundamentally on being, having a meaningful role in an actual pod that we trust and is rewarding
and that we recognize and have like a felt sense of deep, meaningful belonging to and this is why
things like corporations or the army or the police or whatever organization you want to pick
with a few exceptions that are actually almost noble or maybe even, you know, approaching
true nobility, very few. This is why humans do this. This is why they make sports teams.
Those teams are representations of something we've long ago lost and people have the deepest kind of
weird, substitutive, like substitutioning response to that stuff, right? They're like
the sports team might as well be, I don't know, their angel, their god, their tribe,
what? Something. It's like you'll see people have reactions. They'll have no other place of their
life, right? Watching a basketball game or a baseball game or a football game or a soccer game.
Stadiums, thousands of people will split into two and start attacking each other
over a soccer game, right? Why is that? You ever wonder about that? Give it some thought.
This stuff's important and interesting.
And there's all kinds of explanations, not just mine, but it's still important to understand.
We are missing something from our common experience and it's not inconceivable that
we can return that something to our common experience, but we first have to know something
about what was missing and we'd have to have the ability to understand what it means to assemble
these little pods, these little alo families and then we would have to intend to do that and be
willing to work with the fact that we're not very good at it yet and we're going to make mistakes and
Joe's going to sleep with Tammy, Robert's wife and whatever the flight someone's dog is going to
get hit by, like things are going to happen, right? That we're unprepared for and that we
don't want to happen because we're human. We're not perfect. So if we want to do something like this,
and I think we have to actually, and in fact I strive to do it and we can do it with as few as
two people, you know, at least when the heart gets together with the liver, it's a little better than
the heart of the liver by themselves, right? But each person has unique skills and assets that
they bring and express in a meaningful way inside a little alo family, even if it's only temporary,
even if it only lasts an hour, so that we can, who knows what, go to see a lecture together,
stop and have wine and discuss it afterwards, right? People form pretty good pods, PGP,
rather spontaneously often, but if they're oriented to do this in a meaningful way,
in a way that protects all of the members and gives them benefits they can't get elsewhere,
creates a ladder of accomplishment and learning and intelligence and new opportunities for everyone
in the group, as it just naturally does what it does, that's a, that would be miraculous
and a lot like what we were born for as humans.
But I was speaking with a friend today and it was very apparent to both of us that you can't go,
you can't go independently into crisis. I mean, can't? Okay, sure, you can. It's not going to work
out well in, you know, the vast majority of cases. Again, there is, there are forms of
independence that are relatively trustworthy and useful, but those aren't generally accessible
to the common person. These are, these are life paths that are uncommon, often very painful,
sometimes extremely lonely, isolating, dangerous, fraught with peril,
but it's not impossible if that's, you know, the way you absolutely think is the right way.
However, you know, there are loner, there are loner dolphins, there's probably loner whales,
um, I'm guessing, loner apes, maybe, I kind of doubt it, unless they're really sick or something.
So we need each other and we need each other more. When the context itself,
the familiar, seemingly stable context in the between of everything has gone to
shit, which is exactly what is going on right now, 12 ways to Sunday, in layers we can't even
observe. In some layers that I'm going to claim humans don't even know exist, right? There's like,
there's sudden shocking transformation in layers of the great everything around here,
right now, that are deeply weird and terrifying. And if we're going to get any kind of reasonable,
insane, you know, handle, grasp, awareness, insight, so on, into these, into this, our situation,
we're going to need intelligent, trustworthy others to examine it together with. And if we form
those relationships will help us to maintain some semblance of actual sanity,
the good kind. I don't just mean clean, cleanness. And, you know, they will, they will help us to
form trustworthy orientations in otherwise incoherent, um, noise, right? Like, right now,
the noise floor in common media and signaling is so high that even people who are really good
at disambiguating it are overwhelmed. So this is a time when we really need
intelligent, sober, few close people with whom we check in with, right? And ask them questions,
like, what's your sense of blah, blah, blah? Are you dreaming? How's your health? You know,
basic like we're checking in, right? We're going to triangulate on the situations that we are
experiencing together instead of me having a kind of insane and maybe even, you know,
what's the right word?
Well, a theory that I'm very compelled by
that doesn't actually match much or any of what's actually going on around me.
And this is what happens to people who become isolated is they tend to form these because
they start collecting evidence and the evidence isn't really for an actual case. It's for something
that doesn't exist yet. They start collecting evidence, they get a lot of evidence. The evidence
acquires gravity, right? Because it's so massive, this pool of evidence that suddenly in a lightning
flash it all links up and develops gravity and becomes like a star of terror or megalomania
or psychosis in their minds. Or even just incoherent confusion, right? You've got a story,
it's the wrong story, you're totally married to it, right? This is all my fault is a really common one
and there's lots of factors of our disembodied abstract society that want everybody to believe
that because they want them to believe it's a society of individuals and in a society of
individuals everything's your fault. You're sick, it's your fault. You're the only one there,
right? You get injured, it's your fault. It's all your fault.
It's a blame game that doesn't work out very well. That doesn't mean that I don't
recognize usefully and with some sobriety the importance of personal responsibility, right?
These two things can coexist. It's not one or the other, as in many of our flat insane narratives
that we form by being independently minded. Now there's also virtues in independence from the
crowd but that doesn't mean that people, it is not uncommon for even very intelligent people to
become confused. And to believe for example two kinds of rhetorical fallacies. One, that because
something's popular it's necessarily true. Well just about everybody thinks that blah blah blah
that has nothing to do with whether something is reasonable or sane or sober or intelligent
or even creative. And the other fallacy is
yeah all those sheeple or believe in blah blah blah so it must not be true.
That's just as dumb as the first one. Both of those rules will get you killed and they'll get
your friends and family and pod members killed. Rhetorical fallacies are something we do have a
responsibility to learn together and teach each other. And these are both fallacies of popular
appeal or you know the some of the fallacies if you just invert them you get another fallacy and
this is the case, right? The popular people believe it, it must be true. The popular people
believe it, it must not be true. No you evaluate ideas based on all kinds of factors that you know
might even slightly include like hey how many people are talking about this because sometimes
that's what brings it to your attention in the first place, right? So it's included see even
though you don't include it in your evaluation whether it's true or not it becomes a topic because
it's popular. So it's part of the you know it's part of the situation that we just get its value
wrong and then we flatten things out and we form rules, right? Not we but some some of us do this
and I'm presenting these things so that we can be aware of them and avoid them, both.
That's simply not intelligent, right? If you're doing either of those things you're missing
something, something really important which is the capacity to disambiguate layers,
constellated layers of data and ideas, perceptions, observations, theories,
and link these up in a way where you can validate or invalidate it and not just because you think
it looks right, right? You need some you have some tests, right? If you want to know if your
stuff's good you got to test it carefully and you don't test it to prove it, you test it to defeat
it, right? You come at it from every direction you possibly can to defeat it first and then if
it survives all that stuff that's probably reliable information, right? If it falls down
it's probably not reliable information. It's relatively simple. This isn't critical thinking 1A
but it's close, right? This is how you tell. You try to tear it down. You don't tell by getting up
on top of it with a flag and a gun and going oh that's not intelligence that's necromania
or insanity or whatever, right? So my simple point though is that
as individuals we're kind of fucked, right? None of us we were made to be organs in bodies
in teams and we most of us are best in that way. We just don't find in our culture or societies
this on offer. We have to either build it ourselves, right? And we have to that's a
complex process that most of us are going to emulate shit we've seen in culture and society
because we've never done it alone. And you can't just walk up to strangers and go like
do you know what a pod is? Do you want to be like part of a team that helps each other to learn
and survive and grow and understand what's going on more and more intelligently and more skillfully
as time goes on and maybe even has the power to manipulate the representational frames and contexts
in which we're all enmeshed directly from above them? Does that sound interesting to you?
I mean people are going to go like Darren yes it does. Can we do that now? And I'll say maybe.
There are some preliminaries that have to be dealt with too and some pragmatic problems that have
to be dealt with before that's easy although it's usually easy at least I mean we can do it when
we want to at least as one of the overlays in our complex life which can still include membership
in things like the United States and the state of California and Greenpeace or you know the
Sea Shepherd Conservation Society and different kinds of memberships and you know I'm a renter
and whatever I have this medical plan right in all those overlays right there's a place for
the pod overlay if we want to build it and we should build it. This is part of the promise
of romantic love by the way this is part of why people fall in love because they're tired of
being an organ by itself and they want feedback and they want mirrored like emotional mirroring
and all kinds of things because this is the kind of animal we are. We're evolutionarily inclined
toward behaviors like those I hear described which means we are not inclined against those
behaviors in the ways that our you know society of independence keeps hammering home in really
bizarre ways because we are the most enslaved independent people I have ever wished I didn't
have to imagine and if I have to like paint that on a chalkboard for you how that's true
um that would be unfortunate because it should be really really obvious right
we are enslaved five ways to Sunday and in fact we're so enslaved that our convenience is further
enslave us right stuff that's supposed to liberate us has the opposite fucking effect
stuff that's supposed to make us smarter largely makes us dumber most of the time
so we could do with some dependence you know we could do with recognizing our dependence
on what the the shredded remains of the anciently conserved ecologies we could do with some dependence
on people who who are actually capable of producing viable intelligence in a crisis
or a time of opportunity we could use some dependence on people who care for us
authentically deeply and with whom we feel we belong and for whom we might be willing to
give our lives not just because there's some representation of unity but because there's
an actual unity that we meaningful we we inhabit the between of meaningfully skillfully sobs you
know with sobriety and reverence and care and wonder and awe and playfulness intelligence
creativity we all need this i'm not telling everyone what to need hey live the way you like
but human beings in general yes i'm making a generalization here or at least some large segment
of them we could really benefit from some dependence because the the spiritual myths of personal
sovereignty and uh surpassing the need for the care of others these aren't entirely myths maybe
i misspoke the spiritual program of achieving freedom from the self and from you know what we
refer to as dependent phenomenon um in buddhism and such like this
that's a different topic right it doesn't invalidate the topic that i'm here discussing
that's a separate layer that's like the layer of um deep life path work and meditative work
um the quest for awakening or the thing that we really shouldn't call enlightenment
that's a that's a separate topic and that topic in the topic that i am discussing here
relate actually relate with each other right in that if we're going to work toward goals like those
we should also embody something compassionate intelligent and clear-minded in our actual
daily activity and jobs vocations relations the way we forge societies and we have to start
forging societies because the ones that come pre-forged are pre-infected with pirates and
shit and rapists and fucking terrifying soldier things and all kinds of crap and they're not
infected with rewarding roles for you and me right we're going to get something
far rather than rewarding roles for you or me if we subscribe to most of the crap
that's already going on so we have to do something different from that
and i envision um small extremely skillful little sort of the the alo family analog of a
of a complex intelligent unit intelligence unit that can intrude on any context
and just sort of manipulate it for their own benefit um in ways that are humane and noble
and heroic and sort of robin hootish um i envision something like that i envision a future where
where humans will return to this incredibly skillful capacity to form and deploy
teams together within for each other for the history of future history and future of life on
earth not to make explosions in the sky of gunpowder on days that remember something that
right now has been pretty much perfectly ironically counterfeited if there was anything
good about it in the first place some may think that unpatriotic but in a sense there's a difference
between the letters of patriotism right adhering to the letter and appearing to the spirit
and i am inclined to the latter hopefully you are too thanks for joining me bye bye for now
