Ever since I was young, I had two deep fascinations.
The first was with language and knowledge, particularly with technology, and the second
was with nature.
In my heart, the second one was always the context for the first one, so that whenever
I saw technology that I recognized as harming nature, I immediately had a question about
it.
Now, I didn't always see that immediately because the fascinations of technology to
my young mind were exotic and extreme, and also I read a lot of science fiction, a great
deal of it, and that really glorified our relationship with technology and possibility
of space travel, meeting other intelligences, and this kind of thing.
Pioneering adventures are exciting to the minds of young men, as they should be.
It's unfortunate that for most of us, they'll be fed fictions of such things rather than
direct experiences of them, which we happen to be in one of the best places in the universe
to have, so it's ironic that rather than having experiences that surpass any stories that
can be written or fascinate us, which is certainly our birthright and our situation, we've kind
of become enmeshed in a variety of perspectives that prohibit all that, and sell us back broken
myths that remind us of what we might have become while prohibiting us from becoming
it.
The irony of it is staggering, and of course I couldn't realize any of this as a child,
or a young man, what I realized was that truth was in living relationships and living places,
and humans had some games they were playing on top of that, some of which were fascinating,
many of which were deadly, almost all of which were conflicted.
Nonetheless, I was human and fascinated by language, mathematics to the degree I could
understand it, but when computing was born, I became obsessed with computation, and particularly
the idea of artificial intelligence.
I felt, I sensed, I intuited, there was an urgency in me to become involved in that idea
and the processes that might result in its emergence in our culture, and I had every
reason to believe that computers were an astonishing and wonderful new thing, and one of my, of
course, introductions to the most video gaming.
And through, I sort of fell into the world of technology, and nature remained the context
in my heart, and my occasional forays into it from within the belly of the machine, but
I became completely, how should I put it, oriented in the technological world, especially
with my vocation, and of course in time that would break down and I would return to nature.
And my long association with technology, in particular computing technologies, networking
and publishing technologies, and the internet has given me peculiar perspectives on our
relationships with the possibilities and the realities of machines, and what we do with
them, why we do it, how we do it, what we promise and what we get, and the difference between
it too.
But the other day I was noticing a phenomenon that has always fascinated me in observing
crows, one of my favorite creatures to observe.
I noticed that they tend, although they're exceptions, they sometimes travel in groups
during the day, they tend to travel in small pods, three to five, seven birds, and they
range over a terrain, and they're fairly common where I live, so I get to see a few of them
almost every day and I can hear them regularly.
But in the evening things change, especially around sunset, there's some kind of daily
rituals that happen, although they are not rituals, they're just crows being crows, being
animals being alive, they gather for a while in the sun, and other birds have similar behaviors
that seem very special actually, they gather together near the sunset.
And you know, in my poetic sense it seems as though they are recognizing that the day
comes to an end and enjoying the peculiar spirit of twilight, which is in some sense
the gap between worlds.
I noticed that at night they do another thing, they make a thing I call multibird, and they
get together in a mass and they fly off somewhere distant, and I've never been able to follow
a multibird to where it goes, or seen, you know, where it is that they spend the night
in that group, and they must awaken in that group and then perhaps travel a bit as the
group and break up into pods and experience the day.
Now of course, when they're broken up into pods, they're a little bit more like individual
birds, and so there's hierarchy and conflict and trouble between birds, there's scapegoat
birds, and you know, dominant birds, and all kinds of birds I think, from watching them,
you can see the sort of behavior.
So I want to imagine that during the day there are adventures and relations and interactions
that produce some stress and restructuring, and then when they make the multibird, a lot
of that seems to dissolve and maybe a few of the longer running or more intense problems
or friendships remain expressed in multibird, and I find this really fascinating because
in our city-like cultures which are based entirely on fictions, ideas that replace relationships
and economies have replaced the treasures of relation, but here in the cities we do
something kind of weird, we go into little boxes and inside there we might be kind of
multi-person, and then in the daytime we either go around in little pods a bit like
birds, you know, like on the streets and things, gangs, kids and stuff, or perhaps retired people,
tourists, spectators, but when we form multibird, multi-person, right, it's for fiction.
We go from our homes which are in boxes, not in the world, and in those boxes a fake calendar
and phony time obtains, along with the relations we've fictionalized time itself, what it means
and is in nature as nature, as animals, which we fundamentally are no matter what kind of
conceptual overlays we prefer.
So we go from our homes into fake collectives, driven by ideas we didn't invent, in fact
we, in many cases, we applied to be subjugated to them.
We requested to become compliant and then to be rewarded for this compliance, or at
least to be relieved of punishment for such compliance, because in our culture that difference
is very slim for nearly everyone, right, the difference between being rewarded for
compliance and activity with some fictional collective and simply working and complying
in order to not be subjected to harm, because unless you're really wealthy, most of your
work is going to go just to not subjecting you to harm, just to keeping a sort of baseline
where you're not being actively destroyed by context too toxic in human and fictional
for any sane or heartful person to function in.
So we've got something backwards here.
We are fairly excellent at forming and serving and complying with fictional collectives,
reactive subcultures, little tiny pods of estranged from reality, gangs, really, right, often
armed either with opinions, fashions, declarations, again all fictional, all stuff kind of made
up in words and language, but we don't really make multibirds for anything true at all.
When do we do that?
Ever?
And why don't we know how, because obviously if we knew how we would do that, even when
we come together for sports we're doing it for fictions.
The teams won't accomplish anything truly heroic.
What they'll do is play out a kind of a representation of heroism, which will drive us all into a
mad frenzy of kind of absurd delusional transference or projection or something.
Yeah, so it's almost like our absence from heroism becomes the reason that we come together
to glorify the fact that it once existed.
It's really astonishing.
I mean, what could be done with the collective intelligence, heartfulness, and active potential
of a group of ten thousand people for four hours to change human history every time we
try to do it, right?
But when we make multibird, something else happens, and in fact human history is to
degrade it and damage, falsify it, our humanity is degraded, we are depersonalized, we become
compliant with a representation of excellence, representations of nobility, representations
of unity, representations of our potential, we flock to films, we make multibird to go
to see films of what apparently we have no idea how to become.
And the strange thing is individuals can't really make multibird.
So if we begin simply with the idea that we are individuals, a convenience that is certainly
not concrete, none of us individually learned language, we never individually acquired any
skill, we never individually accomplished anything whatsoever, no author individually
authored anything, no inventor individually invented anything, no, there are no individuals.
Now it's not that we have no aspects that are individual like, sure, we are provisionally
individuals in a variety of ways that are true and real, if someone touches my hand,
your hand won't feel it, unless you happen to be the one touching my hand.
So there are domains in which our individuality is reliably distinct, but in most domains
it's not, and in most of the domains in language that we treat our individuality in, we have
transported one aspect of truth to dominate all other possibilities, and what's really
true is that what we are as individuals changes if you put us in any context, especially with
other quote individuals, I dramatically change in the presence of any other person.
So it's hard to say that I had really specific, separate qualities, whatever, I may have had
some, but they're radically transformed the moment that the context changes.
So I wasn't exactly an individual, and even the individual I am is some kind of a floating,
transforming representation of all of the people and concerns and living beings and history
of life on earth and all of this.
So sure, I'm conveniently in language an individual, but if we decide that we are concrete individuals
and then create schemas and frameworks around that, well that's all fiction.
And then of course we can only come together under kind of fictional imperatives and frameworks,
and we'll forget what it means to make true multibird, except maybe for entertainment.
We all go in a group out and go camping or something, but again, we're pretty much spectators.
One of the questions that we have to ask here is, we can see what fake human multibird does
and is interested in, fails to accomplish, complains about, and it's funny because as
individuals we're all complaining about one fake multibird group or another or the lack
of a real one like I am here or something like this.
So as fake individuals we're all complaining that all the multibirds don't work and that
there's bad multibirds out there and all of this, and everything's oriented around this,
which is all nonsensical.
The fact is that we're just not establishing anything like true communion for noble purposes
uncorrupted by fictions, economies, religions, politics, the sort of overlay of language and
culture and structure.
We need to be able to form together spontaneously little groups of human beings that do amazing
things with and for each other in the history of life on earth, and we don't have to use
those words or anything, but the organizing purpose has to be relatively true, self-correcting
based on reality relation and the possibility of learning and intelligence, self-correction
and discovery.
So we should notice that we all go to form the fake collectives and even in our private
time online with our friends, what would an effective collective even look like?
How might it begin?
How might it be organized without becoming a cult or another fiction?
How would we put together groups of humans committed to beautiful purposes within for
each other that can operate independently from the overlay and perhaps inform or re-instruct
it, or at the very least be preserved from the constant insistence of compliance with
all of its conflicted, bizarre, hilarious, tragic and catastrophic imperatives and results?
And this is the question that we will answer together by just by beginning this conversation.
We'll start to see into how to answer, how to become and give answer to it, and also
the origins of the problem, like what was missing, what did we not do that became what
we're doing now.
How can we start to do some of that and see what the possibilities are?
Just by talking about these things and looking into them carefully, we're beginning that
process of learning how to form liquid, intelligent, fluidly self-correcting human collectives
for purposes that matter to us, that are more effective and perhaps can even re-inform the
false collectives which 90% of our lives in time is spent either serving or being destroyed
by.
And additionally, the broader picture is what's the context?
The context absolutely has to be the living ecologies of Earth.
There's no possible fiction that can successfully disconnect our bodies, our minds, our future,
our history from this.
And the idea that we're somehow separate is an absolute fiction in language.
Every single thing we're doing in nature, particularly with technology, is wiping us
out and destroying aspects of a unified system.
We haven't come close to understanding the identity or sophistication of.
If we don't stop that kind of behavior with absolute immediacy and do something else,
it won't much matter what we do in the future.
There won't be much left to do anything with.
Even if we should survive, what it will mean to be human will be such a tragic collapse
of our potential and the possibilities of our incredibly paradisical planet that from
here we consider them probably being worse than death.
So it's very important that we stop tumbling down this mountain, that we seem to be excited
about rushing downward from intelligence in relation with each other in nature to highly
functional derivatives of fictions that everything serves and they're ripping the web of life
and humanity on Earth apart.
We each have to begin to join this conversation in our own way.
And then to discover again how to form fluid, intelligent collectives within for each other
that will give us rewards that far exceed those of anything we can get from the fictional
collectives to which for the moment we appear to be bound in mutual compliance, objection,
subscription and reflection.
Thank you for joining me.
