Hey everybody, I got a few directions I'd like to explore in today.
But before I get too far into thought, language, ideas, I just want to pause for a moment
and listen to the living place whose natures and forms I am absolutely humbled by.
The living place whose harmonies follow each other.
And if we should look for that which leads them, we might best come up with a few different
perspectives rather than one.
Our intellects, as moderns, are mechanically oriented, or narratively disoriented, or maybe
both, maybe a lot of both.
But the thing that stands out, primary, blatantly, is the de facto arbiter of synchronization
to the mind that sees distinct objects and beings is this, the sun.
And in a way, the sun is like the point at the center of the circle of coherence for
life on Earth.
However, maybe the center of the sphere is better, or maybe a position beyond that.
But there are other ways of seeing it, that for example, life on Earth, it's anciently
evolved harmonies and synchronies and relationships, that these two aspects form a couplet.
And I think if we're thinking rationally, it might be difficult to suppose that the incredibly
profuse and unimaginably ancient is that word again that I like a lot, even though I'm
imagining things.
I have to imagine things to say unimaginably.
See how language works?
The profound communion of life on Earth is ancient in ways we don't have concepts for
yet, but we could develop them so that they become available to our thought and our awareness.
And some of us do.
In fact, everyone does to some degree in some set of domains.
But these two primordial aspects can certainly inform each other.
However we might see the sun as sovereign rationally.
And there are many other players, the moon, the history of the universe.
The peculiar adventures our planet underwent developmentally and is still undergoing.
Because I want to listen with my inner being and my ears and my feet, my skin, my eyes,
my heart, my dreams.
I want to listen to the stories before language gets ahold of them and feel them.
Rectangle, amazing trees.
I actually feel like kind of a character in a science fiction novel.
I was born in the age when science fiction was still young, though there had been older
examples.
And it was a craze in my childhood and I read vast quantities of it.
And I had dreams of futures.
But now we're living something inconceivable to most of us.
And so as individuals and cultures and nations and societies, the humans have fragmented
into little groups of factions.
Each less effective than the next at things that are fundamental like being human or understanding
or meaningful relation or adequate threat awareness, adequate coherence.
So by way of listening, when I first entered the gardens today and was reflective, I saw
a butterfly and it was sunning itself on a leaf.
And I noticed something peculiar about it.
And since I'm aware of bilateral symmetry in animals and how the right and left sides
that reach centropy in the whole, right, in the union.
And I think about hemispheric lateralization, the unique natures of the different sides of
the human body, from what we have been able to learn, not merely from research, but from
being human, and from observing things with care and wonder and seeing otherwise invisible
hints and clues about the big questions and what it means to be human in sidedness.
In the dominance of rectitude, the right hand, the side of the body, and I mean this as a
parable, not literally, that doesn't have the heart.
Now that side of the body probably has one or two, you know, the right side probably has
one or two organs.
I'm not a student of anatomy much, that aren't located on the left, maybe the appendix.
What I wish to highlight, however, is that the butterfly that I saw, its right wing looked
brand new and very healthy.
The left wing was broken down and you could see on the surface of the wing that it was
probably not merely the result of misadventure.
In other words, it wasn't just that an accident had happened that injured the butterfly's
left wing, and in fact it was capable of flying.
It appeared, and I can't be sure of this, that the circulatory system on the left side
of that insect's body had been breaking down.
And I don't want to ascribe too specific a meaning to that, but rather to just notice
it, that the left side of the creature was breaking down.
And we might say, well, it is aging, which wouldn't be untrue.
And I don't know where the organs are situated in butterflies.
In fact, I think insects are unusual, they have exoskeletons.
They tend to be pretty goopy inside, to the uneducated observer at least.
And again, though I don't wish to collapse this into any specific point, it did occur
to me that in our cultures, at least in American culture, there's kind of a tradition, if
we look back, and it gets murky and it's not perfectly distinct, but there's kind
of a tradition that the left side are the visionaries, and the dreamers, and those who
want to help society cohere.
On the right side, generally, do you know how I just switched sides there, is pragmatic
utilitarian, success-driven, progress-driven, financially-driven, war-driven.
But we're in a weird bardo, a between place right now, where strange kinds of disease
and malware have infected what we would usually think of as the people of the vision.
Now of course there's layers and layers of representation here, right?
So there's all these layers where things get abstracted, I don't want to just talk about
layers of abstraction.
Our societies and our nations abandon relation by building layers of abstraction, and so
to do they abandon intelligence, centropy, and super function.
The potentials that would naturally have emerged as otherwise impossible actual advancements
get represented, codified, financialized, incentivized by non-being, incentivized by
absence of being together, and then presented as togetherness.
What a shock.
So the processes that rob us of synergy and centropy and synchronization and coherence,
these always present perennially as heroic and advanced, though I'd love to see what
meaning we would actually associate with that in the modern situation.
We represent features of our humanity and intelligence, personal and collective of our
organismal nature, our animality, our not merely physical, so I'm going to say proto-physical
rather than metaphysical, right, before the physical.
When all of this gets represented and we get religions and corporations and governments
and wars and bizarre technological advances that are not only meaningless in the sense
that they produce the common opposite of their promises, still representing as heroic, right?
We're going to connect everybody, how did that work out?
So our species is driven by these habits and their traditions, too, and they wiped out
the old traditions because they're extremely fit for competition in an environment where
there's unlimited resources.
If you have unlimited resources, you can do incredibly insane things all day long and
survive them.
Now, it's only certain kinds of insane things that you can get away with doing if you want
to survive, but that field is nearly inexhaustible.
You can keep finding new insane things to do because you can just burn unimaginable resources
in any direction that some collective happens to decide might be, might grant it competitive
advantage because all of these representations are actually competing against each other
for dominance, and we are the inaction bodies of that process, human beings.
We have become literally possessed, and trust me when I say this, it makes no difference
whatsoever in the outcome for us and our experience and for life on Earth, whether we are possessed
by a demon or by a delusion.
Works out about the same.
And in case it isn't clear, most of the stuff our people are possessed by produces results
that they pretty much look demonic.
Now, I'm going to ask that we not collapse that frame, right?
We're not going to say, like, is it spiritually evil?
I think fundamentally it does matter if what we mean by spiritual authentically refers
to proto-physical, to the layer of inexplicable mystery and monumental potency that underlies
the existence of beings like those on Earth and like ourselves, all of which are expressions
of something beyond mere love.
The love is involved.
There are expressions of communion, which is the process we might visualize as beginning
at unity, descending into diversity, from there descending into physical embodiment
in distinct organisms and relationships, and from that position moving back up the ladder,
to unify within the physical what began as unity in the proto-physical, reunion, communion, awareness.
Actually, it didn't begin as unity.
It began as something far weirder that we have no good language about.
I mean, I'm trying to think of some way to speak toward it, meaningfully.
It's not mere unity.
It's explosively mysteriously intelligent.
It's beyond alive.
The reunion is the experience while embodied of not thinking about what I'm talking about,
but the direct experience of it is when I saw the butterfly's wing.
For a very tiny example, there are much bigger ones I could give, but that wing, the left
side, it was dying.
And there's this old story, there's many old stories, where the right side attacks the
left side and kills it, thus banishing it to what we might call the underworld, which
could be the proto-physical, the before of the physical, a dreaming place, the land of
the dead.
There are many such stories like this, and one of the things that's going on as the individuals
and societies and groups now present on earth for the science-friction cascade we're currently
engaged in is that
the left side is undergoing a conversion, a damaging conversion to artifact, abstraction,
semantics.
Language and conception and representation are now invading the dreaming aspect of our
people, and there's some crossover there in our ridiculously abstracted political system
here in the United States that's mostly just a clusterfuck of malware, a clusterfuck of
bad programs that are being run primarily for power and profit in a time when it's never
been more necessary that something else obtain, that something noble and true become not just
the goal of those we elect, but the necessary precondition of our potential to form intelligent
meaningful society together, within for each other, within for the history and future of
life on our planet.
And those who say, well, life's not in danger, good for you.
You know, life will bounce back, really?
Did you feel that way when you lost your parents or your grandparents?
Did you feel like, well, I'll just bounce back?
Nature's really resilient.
She can take whatever we can throw at her.
And we are nature.
And we are fragile.
And the environment of this planet has paradiscally over-endowed as it has been and still to some
degree remains is fragile.
Abstractions and generalizations of the resilience of the environment are insane because they
are promoted to defend deflection.
Well, we don't really have to be concerned about that.
That stuff will all bounce back, really?
Well, imagine that you had the same perspective on the organs in your body.
Well, I can just sell my kidneys, they'll bounce back eventually.
Who needs lungs?
The heart's good enough, it can do the work of all the other organs.
You wouldn't last a microsecond if actual decisions were made according to that logic.
But what I want to say is just that the environment is much more fragile than we imagine.
And if we wipe everything out, we can't say in the future whether or not life will reemerge
on this world.
What we can say is that the anciently preserved ecologies with their unimaginable intelligence
and profound symbiotic communion.
The birthplace of our bodies and intelligences will have been sacrificed for a series of
abstract illusions that are meaningless except for their incredible virulence and potential
to propagate in human minds.
There's no scenario where that turns out well for anything, including the sun.
Because somehow our world is not merely one of the organs of the sun.
It's probably the only one with physically embodied minds.
And something else we don't have a word for, which is the likeness or the metaposition
of minds in living places, animals, plants, insects, fish, birds.
What I speak of here is something our distant ancestors were aware of and it made them ecstatic
and they were filled with awe and reverence and it wasn't because they were superstitious.
Perhaps as their societies collapsed, superstition became an abstraction floating on the top
of that.
Really?
This young hawk on the ground.
It's hard to see.
We're pausing to listen for a moment.
When I see that hawk move and fly, I see a language older than time as we think about
it.
I see embodied intelligence.
And I'm reassured.
I know how bad things can get so when I see a tree, I feel so privileged to even just
see one tree or one bird because I live in the phase of life on earth where this
lives with me.
And I strive to live for the living beings and places.
Though like all of us, I'm human, I have habits and desires and confusion and fear, thoughts
and I'm enmeshed in contexts that even if I'm quite agile and attentive, which I'm not,
would still constrain me because the capacity for synchronization for sentient is limited.
I'm enmeshed in a war zone of different noise making representational constructs physical
and non and they are profoundly compelling to nearly everyone.
So there's incredible decoherence, disharmony, dystonia, suffering.
In my last video, I was trying to talk about the necessity of having coherent temporal
and relational space in which to understand and explore and develop to discover, to recover
the faculties and potentials innate in human beings.
And while I was attempting to pursue that topic, because I forgot to turn on airplane
mode on my phone, it's kind of interesting airplane mode lets you go above the local
noise floor, I kept getting signals and interruptions and so I had a little trouble.
But I was trying to highlight the difference between a life in which that coherent space
is broken up at different levels by obligations, tasks, notifications, emails, phone calls,
orders, bills, illness, unnecessary illness particularly, an injury, so that we never
actually settle into a temporality, a tempo, a pace that's coherent and supports our humanity
and our intelligence and our creativity and our hearts, our emotionality that supports
awareness and active sensing, right?
Sensing that's the kind of thing we see going on in, for example, the instant to instant
behavior of a sports team.
None of them know what they're going to do.
They have an array of shared goals and habits and novelty is brought in and the teams compete.
And in fact, one could say the teams partially invent the novelty and are invested in that
novelty because if everything just came off like a set of rules, games would be unimaginably
boring, unimaginably quickly, oh, I'm going to reduce my use of this word.
I've become aware that I keep hyperbalizing this way.
And many games are kind of boring anyway because they're representations of heroism rather
than actual heroism and it's the actual heroism I'm pretty interested in.
And we might notice that it's not uncommon for humans to collapse toward unity of some
kind in a crisis that affects them all.
When there's a threat that affects everyone, humans do the weird thing we used to be.
They cohere.
They reunite.
And you could see this like if there's an earthquake, you'll see both sides of the humans, you'll
see opportunists, some of them, but you'll see other people transform immediately into
people who will risk their lives to save their neighbors.
Neighbors that might actually be unknown to them, which is a really weird, modern idea.
How could you have a neighbor that's unknown to you?
See how common that is though?
How much more so are the living places unknown to most moderns?
They're not your neighbor, they're your body.
Or your their body, or something, or both, and more.
So it's not uncommon that with a certain kind of crisis, the humans, it becomes a, a
syntropy attractor.
And in such situations, the humans achieve super function in a way that is represented
by the actions of those we consider to be sports heroes.
So again, you can see the process of offloading actual faculties, intelligence potential into
abstractions, and then representing them, and then playing them out.
And I find it fascinating that this is so incredibly compelling that you can get a hundred
thousand people together in a stadium, absolutely ecstatic over the fact that three guys moved
a ball 20 yards.
And the looks on their faces are, they're the look that you'd see if someone suddenly
caught a glimpse of the divine, or the layer of the proto-physical.
But what they're seeing, it may be partly divine in the sense that they're seeing the
echo of the otherwise impossible super function that happens when diverse people, each one
unique, unify around a goal they're absolutely passionately engaged with.
What would it be like if we could do that together a lot of the time with goals that
weren't representations, but were truly noble, and humane, and creative, and intelligent,
reverential, awe-inspiring?
I think that's a life many people would defect to.
If we could establish a context, anything that even vaguely resembles that, I think
there'd be a massive emigration from game A into an infinite game.
One that isn't, like if there's competition in that kind of game, it's competition for
mutual super function, right?
It's competition towards entropy.
I mistakenly used the word sentinine earlier because I forgot the word I was looking for.
And what you're witnessing right now is a very localized personal example of that.
So on a podcast I was listening to earlier, I think a guy named Jordan mentioned the
idea of those who speak only when spoken through, which means the voice of the collective of
life on earth and humanity is alive in someone, and they're in service to that, they make
face noises, and write things and stuff.
And that's a form, see what I'm trying to say is that it's not my mind that speaks,
even though my mind forms my words and chooses my path and my reflections.
The history of life on earth speaks when we speak meaningfully and truthfully with great
earnestness and sincerity.
There's space, there's coherence.
For something far beyond us to speak within us first and move our hearts to speak into
the physical world.
Now that guidelines a little bit, perhaps to concrete a translation of its origin, right,
speak only when spoken to.
For us to have the opportunity to discover and recover and invent the most beautiful
and profound aspects of the field of our human potential, which is many layered and extraordinary.
Far beyond our thought and ideas, far beyond our accomplishments.
We have to have coherence, whether one is working alone, or one is engaged in endeavors
on their own, or whether we are together.
In both cases we need temporal coherence, relational coherence, ecological coherence,
and particularly the integrity that allows us to be safe if we establish the space in
which our endeavors will come to life, and it is kept sacred in the sense of not being
constantly violated by noise and bizarre representational obligations and things like this.
We need space.
And I think many people suspect that if they had enough money they'd have enough space,
and it, you know, it could work out in some cases.
But that coherence can't really be purchased, even though you can use the money to defect
from the noise.
You can buy a yacht for the moment, go out and live on the ocean, hope you're good against
pirates, you can buy an island or whatever, you know, whatever the defense is.
But as ordinary people are struggling because the space in which we have to form awareness
and intention and purpose of orientation and perspective is constantly being recursively
intruded by all kinds of representations, by the swarming mass, myriad of representations,
these obligations and, you know, abstract relationships, and in order to have the opportunity
for coherent endeavor space, I think we need each other.
I think we have to form, and there's a way that's totally natural that humans are brilliant
at this.
We need to form little, centipede tractors that become contexts that preserve coherence,
and possibility of synchrony, harmony.
Because the contexts in which we are enmeshed and to which we are exposed, the buffer between
our interiority and the intrusiveness of all of this has been getting shredded for
the past hundred years at least, very significantly in that time.
And there's not much left of it.
And it's interesting to notice that in the current situations that face our people and
nations, societies, cultures, and so on, it's really just been falling down a mountainside
for a long time, longer in some places than in others.
But wherever the kind of colonialist ethic of dominate, destroy, where the heroes cost
you, obliterate the world, you know, torture the people, but give them lots of stuff while
you're torturing them, lots of meaningless stuff, wherever that game's going on.
The integrity even of that game itself, which for a long time was a good competitor, hard
to out-compete until, as others have said, it met itself, and had to compete against
others, you know, using the same frameworks.
And not compete for mutual benefit, compete for dominance, right?
Everyone wants to be on top.
Maybe that's when you get coherent.
Maybe in the representation, that's when you're supposed to inherit the sort of heaven of
coherent, spacious liberty.
It doesn't work out much that way.
Our own bodies are like, they are parables, they're embodied parables of how synchrony
and coherence and mutual altruistic endeavor emerge as first basic physical super-function,
but then other layers of potential super-function, particularly in union with other animals like
ourselves for purposes that are actually noble.
We don't have to be too severe in our definition of nobility.
We can be very modest, we can say something like, whenever we become less wrong together
within for each other, that qualifies as nobility.
When we learn to make truthful, heartful, compassionate sense, intelligent sense together,
and then when we enact those insights together in our behavior, in our relations, in our priorities,
and the purposes which we attend, then that's noble, right?
We can have a general guideline, it doesn't have to collapse into the law, and by the
time it does, we're in trouble.
Once it has to collapse into actual abstract representations, the game of courtrooms, that's
a sign that we were fucked a long time ago.
We managed as a species to accelerate our growth and technology so rapidly that the
stuff we call resources, which are actually living places and beings that get massacred
to produce product and profit, those are now finite.
Previously, in a previous episode, mankind was too small to obliterate the organs of
the earth, which create homeostatic coherence so that you can survive weather changes and
things like this.
In a previous episode, before the onset of industrial technology, we were still capable
of doing a lot of damage, apparently.
From what we know, the early humans on the various continents pretty much took out the
megafauna, the big animals.
Even back then, we were a threat, but we didn't have the capacity to, for example, kill the
ocean or, you know, pave the Amazon rainforest.
Now we're past that.
We've really deeply damaged the ecologies on which our survival depends.
At the moment of highest human population in history, and something very few people
talk about, object and machine proliferation.
Those objects and machines are the physical symptoms of a disease, a cognitive disease,
a relational disease, maybe even a religious disease, a constellated family of diseases
that are the result of our representational inheritance and the capacity to defect from
relation into abstraction.
And this catastrophe is not creating a centropy well in our country.
It's having the opposite effect.
Rather than recognizing, oh, there's a library of active threats, many of which are of our
own creation, that we have to address together immediately.
In fact, we're far too late at addressing them than we should be.
Instead of that bringing us together and causing us to establish trustworthy, sincere, authentic,
intelligent institutions and maybe something like the opposite of corporations as they
presently exist.
We are fragmenting and dumping power into sidedness, competition for dominance, competition
for winning, a kind of apocalyptic competition for the, it is an apocalyptic composition.
We player for themselves at any cost kind of game.
And this is an absolutely lethal moment for our species to fall further down that mountain
side and for any group of humans to fall further down that mountain side.
There's nothing in that direction, in that direction lies oblivion, in that direction
lies horrifying chaos.
And many of us are kind of spoiled or maybe even extremely spoiled in that we've never
seen fields of dead bodies.
But we've certainly seen fields of dead minds and vast landscapes of dead time invading
what might have been meaningful experiences of human interiority.
There's a small population of humans who whether or not they can articulate what I'm reflecting
on the same way, they are deeply aware of what I'm talking about and even the common
humans can sense, holy shit, this isn't going to work, right?
Like this just straight up isn't going to work, this being modernity, game A. Every
faction for themselves at any cost.
Because any cost these days can easily become all costs and I'm encouraged
at the possibility that a crisis like this can produce intentional human centipety and
super function and awakening.
But I'm not terribly optimistic, I only notice there's an opportunity here, it's conceivable
that some group of people will move in that direction or that some groups of people will
move in that direction together intelligently and learn how to forge
the positions that lie far above our cultures of abstraction, identification, projection,
transference, lying, violation, harm.
There's a situation in which one has gone too far to turn around and the temporal pulse
has changed suddenly so that we're like a cartoon character that runs off the edge
of a cliff and keeps running, right?
And then suddenly looks at the camera and goes like whaaaaa and falls down to the crass,
you know the coyote or whatever, Elmer Fudd maybe.
There's a point of no return for human hubris and there are also steps in that process toward
the point of absolutely no return and I'm not sure at all I feel quite concerned that
our species has been playing that game now in ever accelerated little bubbles at the
same time, right?
For so long that we've passed all point of return and what that means is we will become
extinct.
And if that happens, if we don't turn toward our potential to avert apocalypse, the real
big thing, not just for humans, then everything that we ever did, we will change the entire
meaning of the past of life under.
So we have as human beings the capacity to ennoble the history of life on earth and of
our people, the history of the earth by becoming beautiful together.
But we also have the capacity to end that entire story with a tragedy that was completely
unnecessary and born of insane delusions of power and dominance and abstraction and representation
and our catastrophic vulnerability to and addiction to these aspects which really comprise
very low rungs on the ladder of our potential.
You see, there won't be anything noble about science or philosophy or creativity.
If we crash the vehicle, we made them in support of.
Particularly if we allow the vehicle to be the vehicle of humanity, right, the vehicle
of our history, the vehicle of the history of life on earth.
Particularly if we allow pirates and rapists and insane people to force that vehicle to
crash on purpose for egoic reasons, for reasons related to the acquisition of dominance or
power in an attempt to win something that was never a competition until we made it
one on purpose.
And that's the situation we're in right now.
At least here in the United States, the Commander-in-Chief is this kind of maniac.
And he's replaced many of the organs in the admittedly festering institutions of what
we optimistically refer to as our nation.
He's just wholesale gutted.
And again, you know, many of these institutions are, were, and will continue to be completely
corrupt, right?
These institutions suck.
They don't do what, you know, they're like pretend heroes, occasionally accomplishing
some minor good while imposing, you know, catastrophe wherever they don't do that and
pretending otherwise.
So we're in, we're in a situation like that, we're in, we're in freefall.
And because our methods of assembling institutions and government are so corrupted as to have
just been turned into literal malware, we can't, by merely voting, affect that crisis.
And I've had people come and say, well, you know, this is really depressing, Darren.
You've got a really grim view.
And it's not entirely untrue.
I'm, I'm fairly pessimistic, but not only.
And yet, as human beings, we live in an interval of time.
Our lifetime is one interval and the times in which that lifetime takes place, these
two aspects become married.
And perhaps, well, not perhaps, in a crisis, there are many opportunities for astonishingly
meaningful roles, endeavors, learning and growth, even if the crisis leads off a cliff.
And we know this for a simple, easily understood reason.
Our lives are thus.
They are not infinite.
They're finite.
And eventually, the cells of the body age, we lose resilience, we grow old, and someday
we die.
But the fact that we die enhances the meaningfulness of life rather than detracting from it.
And so, in a time of crisis, transformation, decoherence, fragmentation, we have new opportunities
for roles that would otherwise never occur to us, or our common obligations would prohibit.
And this gives me some hope as well.
And there's another thing that gives me hope.
And this is kind of a big secret, but it's well known from history.
A very small group of intelligent, aware, committed, sincere individuals, say, two groups
of 30 of them, can transform a nation overnight.
We have the capacity for tactical intelligence as human beings that's way beyond anything
we're used to seeing or imagining, and sports teams, again, are a representation of this.
And that's part of why people go nuts when they score a goal or don't.
Small tightly knit groups of highly motivated, intelligent people can directly manipulate
the very accessible pivots on which the entire superstructure of lies is founded.
And that thing can crumble in a week.
And this is kind of a secret weapon in nature's arsenal, in human nature's arsenal, except
it's not an arsenal, it's a toy box.
In case you don't believe me, it's really easy to see how, it's easy to see the dark
side of this, right?
Ten people totally committed to a project of destruction can change the course of a
nation's history in a single day.
But similarly, that same property holds on the other wing, mutual uplift, active sensing,
noble intelligence, noble endeavor.
And I imagine the emergence of something resembling civilian intelligence teams that
are so profoundly endowed and familiar with the weaknesses and vulnerabilities of representational
culture that they can foment an invisible revolution with no or nearly no violence.
And this can happen very quickly.
And we're really good at building and training small tightly knit teams for impossible missions.
And right now, there's a forest of such missions waiting for those teams.
It remains to be seen whether or not we can enter that space together and begin to fulfill
some of the opportunities and responsibilities inherent both in our human nature and in the
moment at hand.
But I am convinced that goal is achievable and it's multi achievable.
And groups and teams like this can link together for mutual benefit intelligence, defense, success.
I know this is reachable.
I've seen it on small time scales.
I've been involved in it on small time scales with small groups.
And it always struck me as astounding that this hadn't caught on like wildfire.
Well, maybe it was waiting for the perfect storm and if it was waiting now is that time.
Though, you know, a year from now could be more that time.
And I hope that we'll do something like this before crisis forces our hand.
Because by that time, we'll be under pressure and right now we could do it without a lot
of pressure.
But in crisis, we will obey the tempo of the threats that we encounter and that path has
fewer degrees of freedom.
With the owls and raptors and crows, ravens choose trees to nest in.
We must choose frames together that are flexible, intelligent, conducive to our own awareness,
our presence, our dreams.
There is no perfect framework.
There are those that are less wrong.
And there are some that lift us above the frame collapses of history and habit and return
degrees of liberty, degrees of freedom to us in thought and relation, endeavor.
We learn to seek those and invent them and embody them together.
