Hi everybody.
I've been thinking, reflecting on all kinds of things and enjoying Daniel Schmockenberger's
podcast called The War, I think it's on Rebel Wisdom, called The War on Sense-Making, which
is absolutely brilliant and perfectly articulates concerns that I've been exploring and trying
to understand and researching for 20 years.
And he's got such an incredible framework that orbits these concerns and he can articulate
it with incredible clarity in a way that's absolutely compelling for me.
Maybe absolutely is a little bit too strong a word.
But what I'm thinking about and what I've been thinking about for a long time are some
topics related to time.
And I just want to show you one form of time.
And what I want you to notice about this form of time are a few very specific things.
The first is that although what you're looking at is a representation, these living beings,
their temporalities, comprise a symphony and that's the symphony our humanity was born in.
That sound you might hear out there is not symphonic.
It's dysphonic.
It's dystonic, right?
It feels bad.
And in the garden, I'm still inside, I'm in a little bubble, inside what we refer to
as society or civilization.
And we can break that up in various ways from the universe to our solar system, to the solar family,
to the earth, to the United States, San Francisco, this place.
Living time is a symphony in which mostly, most of the time, everything, the fact that it's alive,
helps all kinds of other things come to life.
In case you didn't notice back there, there weren't any explicit examples of competition.
And I think our sort of game theoretical, zero-sum game ideas about competition and nature are blatantly misdirected.
But in here, in this garden, with the living beings, time comes to life.
And we'll actually sing at you about this and explode into visual splendor about this,
except that that explosion is so slow you can't see it happening.
You just see the bud one day, some petals the next, you know, flowers the third, the full blossom the fourth, and so on, right?
But down there, here's another kind of time.
And you see this barrier?
That barrier is real, but it doesn't keep out, it doesn't keep that stuff from invading.
And that kind of time out there, it doesn't come to life, it comes to death.
It eats up everything it possibly can to keep making more noise, more disturbances per minute, you know, more events per minute.
I'm curious, how many events did you see occur when I showed you the living time?
Were you seeing, were you getting like notifications on the leaf?
Were people trying to text you through the flowers?
Was your boss suddenly, you know, needing that emergency thing that compared to our lives is absolutely trivial, yet in our representational cultures rules everything?
Now maybe that's a slight exaggeration, but I'm Italian and occasionally prone to hyperbole.
But the intervals, and this is really the thing about time, it's hard to understand until you finally wrap your mind around the fact that every living being and even the beings that comprise living beings,
each one is a unique participant in an expresser of temporalities, meaning things like what's the speed at which change occurs, what's the rate, and what is produced, what is transformed from one thing into another over that interval,
because the living beings are transforming, not merely substances, but we can think materialistically, they're transforming the nature of being.
And each of them have different rates of growth and maturation and death and fertility, and when they transform, one of the things they transform is time, but another one is space.
So they're like time-space transforming beings, like this one, and each one creates unique dimensions of meaningful transformation, of symbiotic relation,
so there's this incredible symphony going on in all the living beings, and you can trust it, it's truthful, it's not abstract, it's not an idea, it's not a theory, you can bind to materialism if you like,
and I don't entirely reject aspects of materialism, but to think of them as fundamental as having precedence to the mystery, the beauty, the splendor, the pathos, the heroism, the adventure of living beings,
I would dismiss all of abstract thought and every invention instantly if those two things were put, you know, if I had to choose between them, because the natural symphony is the origin of our lives and minds, and not just at some time in history.
That's when an event looks like, in this context, right, it looks like an organism, something alive, something I can learn from, all kinds of things, not merely theoretical things, not merely abstract things,
I can learn about my humanity by observing and participating, meaningfully, in the living places, and you can too.
We have to learn how to, most of us have forgotten, even if we recognize the comfort and the beauty of living places, that's different from participating in them meaningfully.
Though positive surveillance is very, very powerful capability that humans have, and it's not without value at all, it's quite meaningful, but to participate more organismally in the living places,
we have to form meaningful relationships with the place, and with its unique ecologies and organs.
We as humans have the capacity to make friends with living beings, and it doesn't necessarily always look like a cartoon, which isn't to denigrate the times when it does, sometimes it's very nuanced and subtle.
But my point, or rather the direction I wish to travel in, is to talk about intervals.
The time of living beings, like this one, it's not comprised of discrete intervals, it's liquid, it flows.
It hasn't been divided into minutes and seconds and femtoseconds and so on.
It's flowing into life, and this is the important form of temporality that we have lost contact with in general,
though, again, there may be some among my audience who have recovered some degree of relation with living time and living beings.
But over time, as what we call our society or civilization has advanced, which apparently we mean something really bizarre, something like,
well, we can start killing everything in more new ways per second than we ever did before, including our own minds and bodies and hearts and relationships and futures and so on.
So I guess that's a kind of advancement, I mean cancer can advance, right?
It can become malignant and then metastatic and just go apeshit, at least within a single body.
And often within groups of bodies where there's a particular carcinogen present, which there is everywhere.
But some places have, you know, are really poisoned, and even a short exposure can result in oncogenesis.
Now see how many events you detect on the other side of the fence.
And, you know, we're looking from outside that space.
So, you know, you're seeing, I don't know, 50 machines per minute, 45 machines per minute.
And inside those machines are human beings relating with other machines, like smartphones and radios and there's all this intense activity intended to fill up,
first to create new invasive intervals and then to fill them up with shit, right?
Signals and noise and fucking, you know, broadcasts.
Now why am I so upset about broadcasts?
Hey, everybody watches things, I watch things, I used to listen to the radio when I was a kid.
It's not the purposes that underlie the constant intrusion of new kinds of invasive signals and noise and events per second is ripping our minds apart.
So, you know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I
don't know, I don't, I don't know.
for you when I stopped making face noises and turned the camera toward the living events?
Did you experience any kind of transformation of your local temporality when that happened?
I did. Extremely significant transformation. So much so that I'm a little skeptical about
my agenda of continuing to make face noises. Because the living places can demonstrate
something that is impossible to encompass in mere words. Something very shocking has
happened and many people would say our society is in crisis. I think that's hilarious. That's
like saying our society is crisis. It's been crisis for a long time. We've just been busy
playing other games and listening to noise and now the repercussions of the activity primarily
of nations, corporations and institutions. And I guess the consumers are involved too, right?
We've got a role because we support all that activity by buying in. And we're kind of the
targets of a vast array of predatory forces that want to convert us to broadcast their mean.
So our minds, it turns out, are a lot like wombs and they can be effectively fertilized by
intrusive ideas and theories and positions and perspectives and prerogatives. And then we become,
you know, contagious. We become broadcasters. We rebroadcast this noise, this these memetic
contagions. Many of us, a lot of us. And even if we don't rebroadcast them to others, we'll
rebroadcast them internally, right? We'll have, you know, everyone figures out where they are on
wearing masks and then tries to tell everyone else. They start broadcasting and because we're
concerned about this thing, all of us, though some of these concerns are relatively bizarre,
we become involved. And we may feel threatened or we may feel like, well, I'm an outsider,
but I'm going to stick to my guns. Care and caution, you know, care for other beings can't be
overrated. Like it's a direction you can really trust. And even if the comfort is merely symbolic,
which is nearly certainly is not, it's a lot more difficult to err on the side of truly caring
and learning to become more aware and more capable of understanding a very complex layered
book of situations that we're facing. But I'm going to go back here for a moment. I'll skip over
this relatively contentious topic. It's not as contentious as many people think, but there's,
there are forces at play that want to get people rebroadcasting memes that will get people killed.
And in that situation, I tend to become a little more actively concerned rather than philosophically
concerned, as I might otherwise be.
Because I was born in the 60s, I remember times, unlike people who were born,
I remember times before the people who were born say, let's go 20 years after me, 20 to 30 years
after me. And it's impossible to convey to you how much more time we had and how less crammed
with events per second, it was. And how much less stressful that was. And this is part of why people
go on vacations, hopefully, maybe, is to escape the ever accelerating grinder that's just pounding
events into our moment to moment experience.
We've invented new places for there to be new events, right? And smartphones, computers, the
internet, we thought they were going to make life more convenient and that we would be able to do
things more effectively and efficiently. But there's this weird process in technological cultures
that it just absorbs, right? If you make the task more efficient,
then we can do more tasks per minute of different kinds, right? It just absorbs what we previously
imagined would be the resulting liberties of having automated a process. And then,
you know, it intrudes directly into our bodies and lives so that even when we're at home,
many of us, we're still at work. And there's no, like, there's no boundary. It blows boundaries
apart. This whole prerogative, this whole campaign of, you know, let's do it faster. Let's do it
more efficiently. Let's skip over time. Let's time skip. And as what we're, what part of what we're
doing is we're compressing tasks. And then we're making a new domain that begins relatively open
into which new tasks get compressed, like when we invented smartphones, cell phones and things.
So this is a terrifying monster. And part of why it's terrifying is that
it ensures that most of us are too busy with trivia to have actually anything resembling
the mind with which we might otherwise engage in meaningful activity in relationships.
We're getting buried in task noise, bizarre obligations, and
the burial is proceeding at an ever-increasing pace, so there's more and more layers.
And one of the results of that in general, there's a lot of them,
is that people get dumber, faster, and they get sicker, faster. More people get dumb, more people
get sick, and more people are converted to shells, essentially. Shells of what they might have become
in a context that supported and nurtured their growth and creativity and humanity and intelligence,
and their capacity to
connect deeply and meaningfully with each other and form something that actually resembles a society,
and to connect deeply and meaningfully with nature, thus experiencing something that resembles
humanity. Our modern world is a swarm with abstractions, and each one invents a new kind
of dead time, in a way precisely the opposite of what's going on where I'm walking now.
And do we really want more and more new kinds of dead time? Because with each new kind, part of us dies
with it. So I'm suggesting that in learning about these things together, that in exploring them and
reflecting upon them, that will at least give us the possibility of understanding why we feel
so overwhelmed, and like we can't get enough time. Human beings will stay up,
even though they had no sleep the night before. They will stay up,
laid into the night, doing something usually relatively meaningless, even to them,
but so that they stay up in the hope that if they just stay awake, maybe some beautiful thing
will happen, so that they will have had some experience resembling being alive that day,
even if it's just, you know, an interaction with a friend over the phone or the internet.
Most of us were being, it's like we're being fed rocks in the dimension of relational time,
right? And by the time night comes, we just kind of want to throw that up and hope
that maybe we could have something nourishing, meaningful, beautiful, adventurous, heroic.
There's no space for that in modernity. In our modern cultures, that gets evicted
from everything and pushed to the outside of our lives, and that's really tragic because our
lives are brief. We don't realize it at first, most of us feel immortal until we're directly
faced with death. Then we begin to get the sense of like, oh, wow, this is a limited engagement.
This has an end point, and it's really easy to just cram our lives full of garbage
again, you know, 20 times a minute.
And we can feel totally helpless about that, even though we do make choices, it's not as
all of us are free to choose primarily because we need money. To survive in a society that's a
capitalist society, even to survive in a communist society, there's a vehicle of exchange, right?
There's an abstract vehicle of value, and that might be the very seed from which
many other evils sprout and bear young and invent new forms.
So, I mean, I have compassion for people everywhere, because we're all scrambling
while we're awake, many of us, just to try to keep our head above water financially or,
you know, hopefully we have relationships.
And that's really tragic, and it's extremely common. The vast majority of people are so poor
that a single year of my ordinary income might be more money than they make in their lifetime.
And then we have bizarre examples where I guess Jeff Bezos made $13 billion yesterday or something.
Once you've got mountains of money, it's really easy to make more.
When you've got a very small amount of money, it's very difficult to sustain oneself.
Wow. I wonder why they did that.
Perhaps it's an important analogy. So, if the diversity of the branches of these trees
and all their leaves and all the living beings they relate with
is like living time, let me show you what the result of dead time looks like.
It looks like this.
It looks like that. In our hearts, in our intellect, in our creative selves,
in our psyches, in our relationships, in our vacations, dead time.
Looks like that.
It was a cypress tree. I don't understand exactly what happened here,
but I suspect that the arborists decided that its branches were too dangerous
and that they might suddenly, unexpectedly, break off and land on someone in the garden.
So, to protect passers-by and the gardens from liability,
that's what happened.
Maybe the tree will continue to grow. I cannot tell.
They didn't cut it all the way down. They just took all its branches off.
And sometimes that's how I feel at the end of the day, when my own life has been filled with
largely meaningless work and, you know, tasks and signal and response.
And I suspect it's familiar to most of us.
Okay, so that's a mechanical sound that I hate.
That's the sound of terrified geese being projected on loudspeakers.
And it's been turned off for a while, but someone made the decision to turn it on.
Originally, this is supposed to be a sanctuary, right?
But this is precisely the thing I'm talking about right now, okay?
In order to control the gardens, some extremely ignorant humans
decided it would be a good idea to put in this sanctuary loudspeakers
that project the sounds of terrified geese for about a mile in every direction.
And it has no effect on the geese, but it makes the gardens unbearable.
The geese don't care.
In case it isn't obvious that the geese don't care,
there's 80 of them.
And they will happily come right over here
to where these speakers are installed. We'll hang out here for a minute.
And the humans will produce noise that has no effect on the geese,
but definitely affects the humans and the other animals.
This thing does not belong here.
It accomplishes nothing other than making misery
and fucking up the temporalities that are natural to this place.
The problem it's supposed to solve is
both that the geese are not controllable animals, they can fly in and out,
but also they, you know, they make feces.
All right, so somebody decided it was actually the, I think the head of parks and rec in San Francisco
to install that loudspeaker.
About three years ago, I think, and I stopped coming to the gardens when that happened,
and I've been so relieved not to hear it.
They often run it all night too, which is even weirder,
though I can imagine some purposes for which that might happen.
It has a frequency of about one array of signals per 10 minutes. That's the interval.
But one of the things I wanted to highlight before I wrap up is that
all of the intervals in nature are liquid and flow together in communion.
The harsh, sudden, intrusive intervals that we experience in our culture cut things apart.
They slice things up, and sometimes those things are our hearts and sometimes there are actual bodies.
Now, I don't want you to just think, oh, well, Darren's just saying he's a fan of living time.
I certainly am, but I want us to be able to think, oh, here's some events.
That's kind of how time is in nature. It's not a bad representation.
Membranes and manifolds.
Of course, the soap is probably kind of toxic.
Humans really like to be entertained,
but there's nothing as entertaining as true relation as meaningful
relational behavior within for each other and the living beings.
So entertainment becomes another, right, intrusion.
Yeah, it's another, it's a way to fill up that space with more dead time.
Rather than living adventurous and meaningful lives, we observe others do it, pretend to do it,
in dramas that are vaguely analogous to dreams we watch on screens while awake,
but that analogy is poor, very poor. Dreams are ambiguous, fundamentally ambiguous.
Here's some events.
Of course, I don't see them as events, but I mean, this is the opposite of what events
in our lives are. These are living beings.
It should be pretty obvious that the signal from the loudspeaker has zero effect on these animals,
but once somebody installs it, see, now they're identified with it. Now the reputation
is associated with those loudspeakers, and so they'll make claims like, well, it reduces the
population even if it doesn't get them all out. They'll make all kinds of ridiculous claims
that I've looked at and are completely nonsensical. These geese are going nowhere.
They live in a city. They're not wild animals, although they are, you know, they are both
wild and not wild animals. They're para domesticated animals. They're quite used to noise,
and they are a people. And you can see if you watch them as a group,
you can see features of what I was talking about, right?
They are temporal. There's an interval, right? These little
you know, they're grass grabs. They're transforming grass into goose.
Okay, so there's the loudspeaker.
Do they seem troubled?
Do they look like they're paying attention at all?
Not much. A little bit. Some of them haven't heard that sound before, right?
So the ones to whom the sound is new, they're paying a little bit of attention, but not in
the sense that's going to drive them away. I mean, these geese are basically just resting.
They don't care at all about the loudspeaker.
But I do.
It's cruelly invasive.
I care about living time, and I'm aware that the incredible sort of self-hyperbalizing
processes that keep inventing new domains of intervals and inserting them into our lives
is crushing us as human beings.
And the first step in doing something else is just being aware of that, that difference
between living time and the time that is imposed on us.
When we're relating with abstractions, abstractions of value, abstractions of meaning,
abstractions of adventure, abstractions of relation,
our cultures are infested with this, and they're just explosively continuously producing more.
So some of us will choose, once we begin to really understand this, to step aside from that,
to find and make a different path. We will still be subject to some of it.
I am, but I live in a city.
Events permitted outside that gate are radically higher than events permitted inside the gate.
And almost all of the events outside the gate
are mechanical or task-based, and almost all the events inside the gate are alive.
Let's choose the right gate together. Shall we? Bye-bye for now.
