Hey, everybody.
I kind of geek out on language a lot for a variety of different reasons.
It's at once one of the strangest things about being human or the kind of animal we are.
And it's also super ordinary.
We do this all the time.
But I'm inclined to be very curious about all the histories and how this came to be,
both in terms of our species as language users and as individuals who uniquely acquire and
express a broad array of linguistic, conservations, habits, motifs.
And of course, I'm specifically interested in places where tools we use somehow are relationship
with them over time.
It overcomes our intelligence rather than enhancing it as we imagine these astonishing
capacities we have with language.
We imagine they should advance us and in a variety of peculiar ways they do, but at
the same time, I think for many of us at least, we have a kind of user level access to the
assets from which language arises.
And so, we're very often in the ways that language predisposes us to make relatively
clumsy moves with its incredibly powerful assets.
The result is that we misframe the world in ourselves, thought and opportunity, threat.
All of the things, beauty, the things that we would hope language would assist us in
some deep way in appreciating and relating with and noticing and being aware of.
And there's all kinds of little problems in the language situation for each unique speaker
and for each unique language.
And I think some are far less cognitively oppressive than English.
In that they contain richness and depth and ambiguity that English has become well used
to amputating and getting rid of that sort of uncertain cloud of possible ways of seeing
or thinking.
And so, in the end, the way that we use English, though it may not necessarily innately be
this way, something about the structure of the language I think inclines us toward its
most dangerous inclinations, oh wait, yeah, it just inclines us.
Its most dangerous, there's a way to get involved in a system when every time you reiterate
the system you lose degrees of liberty.
And often in such systems, those degrees of liberty are relative to the aspects of awareness
we would ordinarily employ to detect the problem, right?
This is analogous to, in a way, to HIV going after the immune system, which I think is
a woefully incomplete description of what HIV does or is, nonetheless, it's useful as
a toy.
So yeah, HIV goes after the thing that detects these problems, right?
And responds to a wide array of, broad array of problems in the body or transition states
or however you want to think of them.
And English isn't necessarily innately this way, but it easily collapses toward that under
certain circumstances that we are inclined to generate.
And you know, enhance to develop, right?
So we're developing a de-developing impetus inside our languages, it seems to me.
And there's lots of other things going on there too, that's not the only thing that's
happening.
But this is something that concerns me because it affects me.
I'm an English speaker, it's the only human language that I speak.
So I know, you know, a smattering about other languages.
And today I was thinking about ideas, generalized ideas.
And one of the things that got me thinking about it was when I was listening to Yosha
Bach, I think is his name.
He's a computationalist, wildly brilliant theorist, and I actually don't know a lot
about him other than having listened to him in this podcast.
Oh, that's a lot of horse manure.
I guess I mean that in more than one way.
So he was saying, he got to talking about gods very interestingly.
And one of the things that he said that was quite startling in its simplicity was that
gods are selves that distribute over populations, right, or something to this effect.
So gods are distributable selves.
And it's a very radical and simple idea that's not without merit.
Ideas themselves are somewhat like this, right, they have the propensity or the capacity
to rapidly distribute over populations.
And so too language happens, like, like.
Like saying like and like using filler words.
We acquire these habits almost unconsciously from our immersion with other speakers of
our language and with what we read and media and so on.
Their sound is nice.
So I was thinking about awareness and that actually the word is deceptive because it
refers to it refers to the progenitor of something which is never found by itself in the sense
that awareness is always awareness of something as someone somewhere, someone somehow.
And so though we can speak of awareness generally, it's deceptive to think of it as in the way
that I think the casual person might to think of it as a thing.
It's not a thing.
It's sort of a domain of origin from which unique expressions of its possibilities emerge.
Even in me moment to moment now as I walk and speak and consider, you know, my plan.
I read something in a book by a Donis called Sufism and Surrealism today.
It's reading a chapter that was talking about love and mystery and theophany and the feminine,
the unobtainable, the dance of the heart with the nature of origin and the divine.
And somewhere in there he said something like, in this sense time is no longer chronological.
Time becomes what we are in it.
And that's an entirely different aspect of, and he speaks of temporalities as well, which
I find useful and interesting, although very briefly.
And it's like this with awareness, right?
Awareness is, it isn't simply, you know, there's a way of speaking about awareness that points
at something we might imagine as the unexpressed potential that is normally very expressed
in a much more structured and distracting and maybe even kind of oppressive way.
So it has lots of flavors, not just a few, and it's often multiple flavors at once.
But we use this word awareness sometimes to point at the before of the collapse of consciousness
into and toward thought and identification and persona and role and activity and so on
and so forth.
Like, as if we were referring to, no, I just want to make it in stock, there's no way
to refer meaningfully to this that I can think of.
The undifferentiated essence, which might sometimes be referred to as, you know, the
Godhead or perhaps Satori awakening, where the processes, if there are such things, if
I can speak in this way, involved in awareness sort of are retracted up into their origin
and of course, like, the self disappears and various other things can happen if we're,
you know, if we're just talking about this, which is a little bit weird because it's very
difficult to talk meaningfully about, well, certainly with direct language, it's extremely
difficult to talk meaningfully about such things or even around such matters.
Because for most of us, awareness is structured, so it's awareness of something, right?
And so it doesn't really exist, it's not, it's not a thing.
And you know, we might say it's a process or something like this.
We can make, you know, we can take folks at the right category, but without it, there
are no categories, so we have a bit of a problem.
But there are many things that are like this.
There's really no such thing as love, for example, in general, right?
There's no, love is always unique to those experiencing and involved and so on and so
forth.
It's always specific.
It's always love of someone.
Love for some way, some dream, some place, some animal, some time, some food, right?
And kindness, there's no such thing as kindness doesn't exist.
Kindness is always a specific, you know, relationship, a specific exchange, right?
Actual kindness isn't probably actually very kind because actual kindness has this unique
quality of presence and being embodied and being shared and there's, there's a bunch
of beautiful aspects in the constellation of a moment of kindness that are not captured
by the idea of kindness at all.
But particularly, the generalization doesn't point, it points toward a class of specific
things that have something general in common, but there is no kindness.
And these things, love and kindness and other weirder things like government, don't really
want to go there.
I'll probably resist it.
It's very ambiguous what they refer to when they're decontexted.
And there's this propensity to, for in human culture and particularly in modernity to look
at sort of, you know, graphs and statistics and pick out the mean or the average and project
that average as an expectation of people's minds or behavior or ideas or the, you know,
the idea of what's not normal, right?
And there's some good in the norms, you know, there's some relative value there, wouldn't
want to throw them away, but a lot of what's truly good has nothing to do with norms or
averages.
And also, if we're using norms or averages to look at populations, we're going to see
often, especially depending on how we, you know, what our motive is, we're going to see
the worst common denominator and then most many of us anyway, we'll project that onto
whole populations.
So, if these weird impediments in our cognitive habits as modern people, impediments that
are extremely common, everyone has unique versions and some have seen through some of
these and, you know, maybe some of us are working toward that, I am, because it fascinates
me.
There's a bunch of interesting old problems here that I'm in love with and mysteries.
Now of course, I can use awareness to refer to the general, see, this is the other thing,
words have many senses, but in the commons where when we hear them employed, they're
often kind of decontexted and just employed as a placeholder for something that could
have been, you know, meaningfully explored or, you know, uncovered, discovered, invented.
And there is a real problem with generalizations and, you know, taking the mean or the average
and thinking, well, that's how it's supposed to be when those statistics have nearly nothing
to do with any actually specific situation and we know of no other form of situation.
It's not like there are average situations, you know, that just conform to the mean.
And where there are, it's still suspiciously unique, you know, we can say that the same
superficial thing is happening around my house at 8am in the morning outside with the traffic
and so on and so forth.
I can make a generalization about it and even though it's true that Joe Thomas will drive
by my house between 8.40 and 8.59 in the morning, if that's true.
It's always unique.
So the superficial likeness to the model that we've chosen can be blinding.
And languages has a way when used, when we're not trained to understand its actual complexity
and dangers and opportunities.
Of structuring the world of available experience in a way that becomes narrower and narrower
as languages grip on our minds and cultures and so on.
All of the things we're involved in, it's not just language, of course, but as these
things sort of crystallize, right, we tend to crystallize with them toward a narrower
and narrower bandwidth of experience and presence in experience.
Ways of being aware, purposes for which we will become aware.
You can see this sort of tragic extinction event.
If you just watch children, you know, mature, you'll see them lose all these degrees of
liberty and they'll gain some degrees of structured skill in the process, but that
trade-off is unnecessary.
You can easily have both of those things.
You don't have to get rid of the wild, sort of half-ferral, insightful, playfully imaginative,
profound, embodied presence of the child to get structured skill.
That's a myth.
Unfortunately, this is, you know, what I think happens to a great many of us, and to most
of us as we age, we, you know, unless we're both skillful and lucky.
Yeah.
We will lose most of our cognitive and relational and creative diversity as we get older.
We'll collapse toward, at some point, toward narrower and narrower expressions, or at least
this is something many people experience and it's something that's frightening.
It's, you know, it's a tragic thing.
And it's probably primarily, I mean, there are, you know, all kinds of variables involved,
but the ones that we affect and can change, going to the darkness here for a moment, these
we should have access to together, right?
We should be able to learn to see together into the opportunities and bizarre contortions
that language subjects us to in common modern culture.
And generalizations are one of my, one of the problems that actually bothers me a lot.
For some reason, I've got a pet peeve about them, which probably reveals more about me
than it does about language or generalizations.
But yeah, I've got a bit of a feather in my tail over that one.
It's been an interesting and amazing day I watched.
And I wanted to film it, but I just, I felt too respectful and also I thought it'll be
better if I'm just present, but there was a young German man, maybe 37, 38.
And his two tow-headed daughters, one about nine and one about five or six.
And obviously the guys are climber, and they had thrown an anchor band way up into this
old eucalyptus tree with a string.
And when they were taking the band, when they wanted to bring the band down, the string
got all tangled, probably good 45 feet off the ground, way up in this really old yoke.
So this guy and his daughters, I mean, the guy essentially risked his life to grab the
string and the band off the tree.
And his oldest daughter was anchoring him.
She's playing rope anchor.
This is a little thing, you know?
And she took it very seriously, and it was, it was a beautiful, but also confusing adventure.
Because I just thought it was great to see them out having this adventure together, where
they're gonna, you know, I couldn't tell actually in the beginning who was going up
the tree, the kids or the dad, or the dad went up.
And it was just kind of mind boggling, like the guy wasn't really properly equipped to
be climbing the tree, even though he had, you know, ropes and belts and stuff like
this.
He didn't have a helmet.
And if he had taken, it was a pretty sketchy route, he plotted up that tree.
And if he had taken a fall, there's a couple of places where the protection he had set
up would not have functioned well by any, you know, way that I could see.
So I was very concerned.
And there was a lot at stake, right, to this, you know, the daughters, and I had to consider
whether my role as an observer, whether it would be better if I just didn't, you know,
hang out.
So they wouldn't have the additional stress of being observed.
But I talked to them and asked if I could watch and stuff, and he went up the tree and
he got that strap down.
But there were a couple points there where it was really touchy, and, you know, I'm watching
the children and their father in the tree, and it's a pretty serious thing going on there.
And the dad's trying to kind of keep it playful, but frankly, there was sort of a, I was getting
a kind of a mixed message, right?
Like one of the messages was, you can be intrepid and do amazing things, things you'd never
expect that you're capable of doing.
Cool message.
But the other message was weirder, and it seemed a bit too extreme.
The thing about retrieving the strap from the tree, and I don't know what the justification
is, could just be we don't leave things in trees, right?
Okay.
Good point.
There's a bunch of string up there, bird could get tangled in it.
The intensity of the father's drive was at once admirable, and seemed maybe half crazy
too, right?
Like this is a mixed message to give your daughters that it's okay to risk your life
for a little band of climbing material and some string up in a tree.
Now of course, that's just how I was in the situation.
I was kind of like, I don't know what's exact, how are the daughters, what would the children,
what message will they take from this?
But I'm thinking like me and an adult, and they're in their child mind, so the chance
of me getting a good read on what they're thinking or what they'll make of it, it's
not great, but I couldn't help thinking a little bit like a family therapist, right?
Like what's the dad, what's he modeling to his daughters?
And there were some good things in there, but there were also some kind of like crazy
overdrive.
So I was nervous, but it was a beautiful thing to observe a family sort of participating
in this big adventure about a climbing strap way up in the tree.
And so my awareness was awareness of that, right?
My palms were sweaty, that was, I was engaged when he was up in the tree.
Now the evening has come.
So many other things I've been thinking of sharing about, particularly sort of osmosis
of how we absorb essences from each other in groups, even over short periods of time.
But I think it's going to have to wait.
For now, I'll sign off, bye-bye everybody.
