Hey everybody.
So a couple of little housekeeping notes, reminders.
I don't expect anyone to find...
So I used to make videos in my house, and when I made videos in my house, the orientation
was wide, and the camera was far away, and you can see all my hand gestures, and I'm Italian,
so we kind of speak with our hands, though many other people do too.
So back then, it was really good, and I liked making videos in my house.
In fact, the story is more complicated than that in a way that I'm not at liberty to explain.
But there are some mysteries about me.
These days, I like to make videos when I'm outside, and right now I'm near where the
owl nest is, and I'm seeing traces of owls, and I'm also near where the other day I stood
on top of a yellow jacket nest like a complete idiot, but I like to make videos outside,
and so what that means is you get the sort of, yes, I could turn the camera the other
way, but it's much harder to carry comfortably that way, and even if I did that, you wouldn't
see much of my hand gestures, so it wouldn't help a lot.
So part of the thing that I'm here going to remind my viewers about is that you may feel
perfectly comfortable not watching my videos, but just listening to them.
Now I'm looking at the yellow jacket nest and the owl pellet that almost got me destroyed
by them, which I secretly covet.
I want to retrieve that owl pellet.
I came back the other night kind of near darkness with my flashlight, but they were still too
active for me to try to get that pellet with a stick, so I'm going to err on the side of
caution as regards yellow jackets, and trust me, when I say, I encourage you to do the
same.
In any case, yeah, you don't really have to watch these videos, but you might enjoy listening
to them, unless, for some reason, I mean, obviously, us humans, we are incredibly well
adapted or developed to respond to human faces, so facial expressions are hugely important
for us, and they are part of the penumbra of nonverbal signaling that is fundamentally
important to human communication and that gets lost in texting, which is a habit that
I generally abhor and am philosophically opposed to.
I might even be morally and ethically opposed, but one of the things for those of you who
know me that you will understand about my character and my choices is that I don't think
we're going to get rid of our relationships with machines, and underneath that, we have
an even more dangerous relationship, our relationship with language.
We're not going to get rid of those relationships, at least barring some unforeseen, staggering
catastrophe, which, you know, not entirely unforeseen, but barring some unusually significant
catastrophe, we're going to keep having both language and machines, but particularly, we're
going to have language.
Because a little more of a question, there's stuff that could happen that could end our
ability to create and sustain machinery, lots of different stuff, and some of that stuff
might be coming, and we might, weirdly, it might be the result of our having invented
machines, but essentially, in the present moment, we can't get rid of this relationship,
so what we can do is we can learn to be more intelligent about it, and be more intelligent
about both of these relationships involves understanding their risks and pitfalls in
ways that are far more significant than anything we can generally learn in our culture, in
our societies, and then selecting the behaviors that make us smarter, instead of what usually
happens when we use machines, particularly when we use social media, is that most of
the time, we get dumber every time we touch these things.
Now, you could argue, well, Darren, where's the research on that?
Show me the statistics, and that's one of the topics I hope to reflect on today, statistics.
I've been working with computers since the 1980s, when they were first introduced to
the common population, and I was a technician and programmer.
I learned C and Pascal in the relatively, well, I learned C right about the time it
was invented.
I learned Pascal a little bit after that.
I learned a little bit of assembly code for IBM 8088s way back in the day.
That'll date me for those of you who know what that processor is.
And I was never like, I wasn't a genius coder.
My first coding project ever was on an Atari 800 donated to me very generously.
I was so excited by this gift.
And my friend, Martin Peters, who now I believe works for Google, and I used to hang out with
these guys.
Martin Peters, Andy Cogan, Ray Latham, Gregory Ward, Greg was the least geeky of us.
Martin was an incredible math whiz, and he was so kind of, word I can't find at the moment.
He was a wrestler, he was a big guy, boisterous, very funny, in the sense of being kind of
awkward, loved these guys still to this day, they haven't spoken with any of them in forever.
Ray went on to become a microbiologist, brilliant fucking choice, Andy met a woman and became
extremely religious, which was the least likely thing conceivable if you had known Andy prior
to that, and wrote a bunch of Bible software.
I don't know what he's doing now.
Martin Peters works at Google, and has for a good, I think, 20 years.
But anyway, Martin gifted me with his Atari 800.
And this kind of goes to the other, wow, it's weird, I didn't realize this.
This goes to the other topic that I'm hoping to orbit and reflect on today, which is memory.
So the two topics that I have in mind are memory and statistics.
But computers, as you well know, probably, they depend for their operations on two crucial
representations of biological assets or what I would refer to as biocognitive assets, though
they could be thought of as biorelational.
Those assets are memory and storage.
In any case, my first program in basic on the Atari 800, back in the days when we had
to save programs to cassette tapes, though there were very expensive disc drives available
at that time.
The first program I ever wrote by myself without instruction in anything, really, because I
actually never went to high school.
I'm a self-educated person, largely.
So the formal word for that is an auto-deduct.
It just means, I think, self-teaching.
In any case, the first program I wrote was a Tic-Tac-Toe program that would beat you
if it were possible.
It turns out that Tic-Tac-Toe games have a dependency on the first move.
And I discovered this when I was attempting to build this program.
And essentially, I had to teach, not teach.
That's the wrong word.
See, this is the problem.
We think we teach machines things.
It is not so.
All we do is fill them with numbers.
That's not teaching, right?
And the fact that software and algorithms can improve their response to certain kinds
of problems that we pose them has nothing to do with learning.
It's not learning.
It's code.
It's sheer.
It's basically the manipulation of databases.
That's all it is.
It's the manipulation of databases.
So I built a database in BASIC using arrays that would allow the computer, then, very
primitive.
What are those things?
How much RAM do they have?
So RAM is random access memory.
ROM is read-only memory.
And then we have, and those are usually chips, right?
And now we have hard drives that are built out of memory that we call solid-state drives.
That means instead of having a disk for storage, they use chips.
They use what used to be RAM for storage.
And RAM has all kinds of peculiar qualities when you start thinking about it in terms
of engineering and physics and stuff.
And all of these things, you know, they depend on electromagnetism primarily, right?
So it isn't that there's ever a zero or a one inside a computer.
What there are are charges.
It's not my intention to talk a lot about computers, however, computers are technological
representations of aspects, derivable aspects of biological assets familiar to our human
experience, primarily the asset that is represented in computers is memory.
Now everything that we do consciously, and even all the things we do unconsciously.
So my capacity to speak and continue walking without having to think about walking, although
a few days ago while following this device around, I stood on top of a yellow jacket
nest.
Thankfully, I wasn't stung.
Got very lucky there.
Because I wasn't paying enough attention to where I was walking, but I can walk without
having to pay conscious attention to it.
That doesn't mean memory is not involved.
It doesn't even really mean consciousness isn't involved.
What it means is the tiny fragment of consciousness that forms the consciousness of which we are
aware and that we are aware with, like the part that is aware that we are aware, and
the functions, the activities or behaviors that we engage with with that, those structure
memory.
Now what we refer to as evolution, which involves all of this astonishingly impossibly
sophisticated ecological hyper structures, that can be understood as both memory in
that it's alive right now and being instructed right now, moment to moment, but also as storage
in that, now I want to be really clear about this, memory and storage are modest, extremely
impoverished little derivations of features of biological relation.
So it isn't that evolution is memory, it's that what we think of as memory is a representation
of a tiny little fragment, you know, a little pie slice of the continuum of the astonishing
array of forms and embodiments of meta-memory that organisms represent.
And organisms themselves are a slice of something we don't have a word for because we've never
well, most of us have never been anywhere near an experience of that, that of which
organisms are a derivative continuum.
But I assure you, there is such a thing and one way to think about it is time space, but
and it's possible for humans to have access to that continuum, the continuum above organisms
of which organisms are unique expressions and participating organs, yeah, organism, right?
It's going to be a little traffic noise here for a minute.
We can access this, but we don't have language about it because although we consider our
societies to be advanced and they are in certain technological ways, they're unimaginably
primitive, they're unexpectedly primitive in many other ways.
So one way to think about ecologies is the anciently conserved embodiments and relationships
of the history and future of life on earth.
And when I'm walking through these gardens, that's the holophore, wow, that's the everything
vehicle that I understand that emerges to my consciousness as what's going on.
When I'm walking in the gardens, when I'm walking in nature, as opposed to the city,
the city is more like a computer, the nature is more like a living being, a living meta mind,
right? It's that continuum that minds emerge as expressions of, right?
So it's the meta position of minds and intelligence.
Today, as I was standing near a tree, a squirrel came around the tree and because I was standing
so very still, it didn't immediately notice me.
And by the way, one of the things you might notice if you observe animals carefully, but
also insects, is that they will tend to track you with their right eye if they can, if it's
relatively reasonable to do so, if they think you are a threat.
And this turns out to be important. Lateralization in bilaterally symmetrical organisms, like
nearly all of the animals and insects we know, is fundamental to our way of being in the
world, to our nervous systems, and to our cognitive inclinations.
You know, it's such a privilege just to be alive as a human being. Of all the forms in
nature we might have experience of, the human form is unimaginably privileged in various
ways. There are some ways in which it seems impoverished. For example, we don't have wings.
And because we don't have wings, it's not likely that we think about the world and view
the world and understand identity in the ways unique to beings that do have wings. And different
kinds of beings have different relationships with wings. An eagle is a very different thing
from a hummingbird is a very different thing from a bat.
But we humans occupy a unique, apparently unique, niche in the evolution of life on
Earth. And it's an astonishingly privileged niche. Unfortunately, it's so privileged that
we are inclined to abuse it. And part of that inclination derives from our unique cognitive
nature, the peculiar advancements of our corpus callosum. What we usually refer to as the
hemispheres of the brain, which lie on the surface of the brain, and are both divided
and bridged. I'm sorry, I said the corpus callosum? I got that wrong. Occasionally,
I make mistakes in my videos and it's very embarrassing because you can't really go back
and correct it. No, I mean the cerebellum, excuse me. It's the cerebellum, which is both
divided and bridged by the corpus callosum. Or the cerebral hemispheres, right, is what
I really mean. The cerebral hemispheres are divided and bridged by the corpus callosum.
Sometimes I get so excited that my mouth is, it's almost like, like, like there's a race
horse inside me, right? And it races ahead. It's so much faster than my mouth. And also,
I want to slow down a little bit when I'm talking so that the experience of listening
is more soothing and enjoyable. I think most of us have enough tension in our lives these
days. So I'm going to try and slow down a little bit. But sometimes I'm so excited about
the topic that my mind is racing ahead of my mouth. And my mouth is sort of racing ahead
of my error-checking apparatus, although it's not apparatus, my error-checking behavior.
And so there's all these little problems, right, that I have to contend with. In any
case, I think of Earth in different ways for different purposes. But the ecologies I treasure
them above all things. There's nothing as precious as the ecologies of Earth anywhere
in time or space that I can understand. That I yet understand. To me, these are the fact
that I live on a world teeming with life, intelligent life, all of it. Not intelligent
in the sense of being formally, representationally cognitive the way humans are, intelligent
in a far more astonishing way. Intelligent in the way that composes the symphony of symbiotic
relationships we refer to as nature when we mean living beings. That kind of intelligence.
And I think of the ecologies of Earth as what I will relate, what I will refer to as a biocognitive
or a biorelational hyperstructure, which means a multi-dimensional, living, transformational
meta-being. A being that is something that is more than a being that is the context from
which beings emerge. In the same way that a limb, my hand is a unique instance of a limb.
And organisms are unique instances of the biocognitive or biorelational hyperstructure
that the ecologies of Earth comprise. And those things themselves, that thing itself is the
limb of something even more astonishing that we don't have categories for. The closest category
that we have to something like that is divinity or supernature. And the sun, interestingly enough
around here, is the most easily distinguished, the most easily noticed or point-outable instance
of that which by its activity is inclined to produce
biorelational hyperstructures as a result of what it is and is doing.
So no sun, no mines around here. And that means that if you go upscale, if you travel up the
waterfall of origination away from Earth toward the nearest thing that is without which you don't
get mines, you find the sun. And so in a way, all of the minds and memory and even our language
and our relationships with it, they are expressions of the sun. They are because the sun is.
Now long ago, our language that we speak in the United States, the language that
the people who speak English speak is actually the simpler way of saying it.
I don't know all of its roots. Some of the roots go back to Pi, which is proto-Indo-European.
And some of the roots trace their origins to Greek and Latin. But our language is a bit of a
conglomerate. We've adopted words and ideas from a variety of cultures over the evolution
of human consciousness. One of my very favorite topics because I want to know
what it was like to have a mind, say, 8,000 years ago or 20,000 years ago.
And one of the most astonishing books, which for all of its errors, is still
exceptionally profound. It's the first book that really introduced me to the topic of the
evolution of human consciousness. It's a book by a man named Julian Jaynes. And hopefully I can
remember the title. The evolution of consciousness in the breakdown of the bicameral mind.
And one of the things that Julian kind of got right, even though he had parts of it backwards,
was that there are sort of two competing, two conflicting aspects, right? The same way that,
in a sense, one can imagine that the right half of my body, which is connected primarily to my
left cerebral hemisphere, and the left half of my body, which is connected primarily to the right
cerebral hemisphere, are in conflict. And it's actually that conflict and the negotiation of
balance between them that allows for me to be intelligent in the sense that we mean,
in the sense that we might use to indicate the capacity for insight.
Also, the capacity for engineering, and the capacity for the recognition of value, or, you know,
what is the way of saying more than value?
Empathy, altruism, love,
the capacity for love.
And when I see the living things, the living beings, my intellect is overcome, you see.
It is insufficient. It is not my intellect with which I love.
It is not that within me capable of dominating
and obliterating or representing
the classes and categories and functions and behaviors and likenesses and
catalogues of living beings. It is not.
My love surpassed all of that.
And though it was not my intention to speak about love,
raspberries, not yet ripe, but one day soon.
It was not my intention to speak about love.
And yet, love and memory,
these have a deep relation. However difficult it might be
to circumscribe or explain or analogize it at the moment.
Now, I have models that allow me to do that,
and they're quite profound, and they don't come from me.
They come from a place beyond me that I don't truly understand but have had experience of.
They come from a being beyond being that I don't truly understand but have experience of.
Or maybe it's not true that I don't understand it.
Maybe perhaps it's true that I don't overstand it,
which is what we really mean most of the time when humans use this word,
understanding. That blue jay flew right past my face.
Yes, hello.
And that blue jay is one of the heroes
of the biorelational hyper structure that is one of the most useful ways of thinking about Earth.
And nature and organisms.
But the Greeks and before them, others, whose progeny they became,
understood that memory was fundamental to the nature of everything that we know
and are familiar with as humans. Now,
human consciousness had to evolve
for many millions of lifetimes, and by that I don't mean millions of sequential lifetimes.
I mean millions of simultaneous lifetimes over sequential lifetimes.
We had to evolve quite significantly before it was possible for us to represent the idea of memory
in consciousness. And this is one of the things that makes us so dangerous
and so unique as animals, is that we have this capacity that I refer to as
FRC, or Formally Representational Cognition Consciousness. We use language, we have concepts,
we make maps, we explain things, we analogize them, we produce formulas, we are mathematical,
we can build algorithms. And I don't believe though someone might someday
make an argument that either appears to prove me wrong or actually succeeds.
Although proofs are very complex things because they often depend on a pre-flattening of the
context in which the proof is to be provided, right? So we have to throw a lot of stuff away
from the context before we can arrive at a proof. And some of that stuff is incredibly essential
that we remain aware of. So often when we produce proofs that provide insight, we at the same time
become blind, right? A proof is extremely compelling. It's so compelling that you might
lose track of what you had to throw away to get there. And that's a real problem for animals
like us. And it's a problem that very few people have developed effective methods to relate with
intelligence and awareness. But it's something that's crucial that we accomplish as human beings
if we are to truly embody the intelligences that are well within our natural potential.
This isn't to say that proofs aren't proofs. Many of the theories developed by human beings,
particularly those that allow us to build otherwise inconceivable things like atomic weapons
and supercomputers or quantum computers, are examples of the embodiments of principles
first proven in theory. It's unlikely that Alan Turing was the first human being
to have the idea of a computing machine. But he was one of the human beings who,
he's the one that we associate the idea with.
How ironic that he was persecuted and terrified by his
heart, by love, because he loved men, instead of women.
Memory.
When we use our minds, now see that language right there,
extremely untrustworthy. This is one of the problems with being an FRC, right,
is that we have language and we are inclined to allow it to lead our intuitions.
And even our intuitions can go awry because they can become confused by the profusion of
representations natural, you know, that our minds naturally produce.
When we could be said to engage in mentalistic behavior, I'll try that phrase,
even that one's quite dangerous, but I'll try to walk carefully.
Memory. We are structuring memory. And as we live our lives in the biosphere of earth,
we are affecting and being affected by the extended biorelational continuum of life forms here.
Our species is inclined to understand itself as distinct
from the biosphere and the ecology, the ecologies of the biosphere, from the
biorelational hyper structures that I would argue we arise as expressions of.
I consider that to be impossible. We are no more distinct from,
there are dimensions of unity within the biosphere that we have no language for,
and that are largely invisible to us. But we are more connected in these dimensions
to life on earth than my own hand is connected to my body. The problem is our minds cannot
conceive of it, cannot conceive of this. And many of the races of people who were our progenitors,
our ancestors, they had not yet proceeded so far down the tree of cognitive abstractions
that they became blind to this truth of our human nature. Yes, I will dare to call it a truth.
And so they left us traces in the artifacts, of course most of them didn't write.
They left us traces in the artifacts and the constructions.
Once they began to create artifacts and constructions that would survive over vast epochs of time,
that we attempt to interpret. But we do not see these things with the minds of the ancients.
And in fact, very few of us are capable of
recovering to consciousness the layers of awareness we carry within us
that are the endowments of our evolutionary ancestors. And yet,
the nature of our humanity allows, not only allows for this, but I would argue demands it.
We must. We ache to. We know there is a secret
carried in the seed of our souls or our essence and that secret wants discovery.
And I am lucky to have glimpsed it in my lifetime for so few human beings will glimpse it,
though they will know the ache. They will recognize that of which I speak.
Whether or not they've had a glimpse, they will know. These words will resonate with those who
understand the direction in which I point. And it's it's not a direction humans have language
about. Our categories, the categories of moderns, they're too abstract. We've come too far.
We've come so far, we've become blind to things so fundamental that it would be
that it would be unimaginable if we were to meet
a group of humans from 50 or 100,000 years ago, they would be able to see and show us things
within the living world. So astonishing that we would gladly dispose of all of our technologies
to merely glimpse them. And I know this to be true,
for I've been privy to such glimpses.
And not as many might imagine as the result of the use of intoxicants.
But as the result of adoration,
of love so pure, it rises beyond the capacities of words or models to convey.
Love for living beings, love for all the living beings in all their forms and kinds.
And that felt sense. I trust more than all my intellect, however joyful my relation with it,
however fierce my exposition. And that love is memory of a different kind. It's memory of communion.
It's the memory of a single origin, not merely distant in history, present right here, right now.
Obscured by the intensity
of intellect and modeling and language and habits of thought and abstraction,
derivation, distinguishing, relation, purposes that drive habits.
So I am fascinated with the topic one might refer to as the developmental evolution of human
consciousness. There may well have been a time, as Julian Janes argues quite convincingly,
in his partially confused book,
I can easily excuse the confusion for the brilliance therein hidden.
There might have been a time when it was impossible for me to understand myself as a distinct self,
when in fact the idea of myself did not exist. And what instead happened was I experienced the
urgings of what could only be understood as gods within me. And I had nothing like the formally
representational memory I now have. What I had instead was something so strange to us moderns
that it's difficult to describe.
I had a dreaming path in life
and was driven by urges from within whose source I could not name.
And this seeming speculation is quite profound and useful whether or not it is true.
And it is common that we can come across such things.
Truth is easily overvalued in a society that uses proofs to produce technologies.
Perspective, insight, the chance of seeing a thing from seven different eyes,
each one unique of purpose and derivation. This is a magic we mostly have lost,
though it returns to us to some degree for most of us in dreaming.
And our research seems to imply that dreaming is absolutely crucial to the formation and health
of memory. And where dreaming is damaged, memory is damaged and learning becomes difficult,
if not impossible. Now dreaming is one of the aspects of our experience that
where we can directly seek out mysteries and we can, it's almost as if the old,
the gulf between our modernity and our antiquity
in the waters of dreaming this gulf can be bridged directly, experientially, personally.
And that's profound and beautiful. And I encourage those who find my passions fascinating
and want to forge their own quest to seek in dreaming, but not merely for lucid dreaming,
also for its opposite, which we have no word for, because we can't say lucid waking,
that's not what is meant. What we mean is the opposite of lucid dreaming in that the dreaming mind
gently intrudes upon our waking consciousness
in such a way that waking does not merely collapse into dreaming,
much in the way that in lucid dreaming our consciousness intrudes upon our waking consciousness,
right, intrudes upon the dreaming manifold in a way that doesn't cause it to collapse into waking.
And for those of you who've been paying attention to my videos, you'll notice this
theme in the background of a sort of a cloud-like state and the work of our waking mind to
disambiguate that down to concrete deliverables, that is a bird, the bird is a bluejay,
this is me walking, making a video, right. There's this cloud-like state of ambiguous
meaning and identity and potential and our waking minds are trained, we've trained them
to disambiguate, right, to cause that thing to collapse toward concrete deliverables.
And that's a behavior
that we do habitually using methods we've acquired from our personal history and culture,
but those methods are the catalog of methods that we've been given.
Well, imagine if you gave your children an alphabet of two letters.
That's an analogy of the otherwise unimaginable impoverishment
that I don't even know what to say, I'm so overwhelmed.
That's an analogy of the impoverishment of methods
that we acquire from our common cultures compared to those we've accessed to.
And because there are no humans near us who
produce and distribute better methods, we tend to stay with our little two to three-letter alphabet
and as you can imagine that limits the kinds of words we can form.
I mean with two letters there's literally only two, well let's see, there's four words you can form.
Five, if we count, a few more if we count absences, right, but yeah, two letters, four words.
We'll call them A and B, so we've got A, B, A, B, and B, A, right. And
if we add dimensions associated with A and B above and below those
so that we have the A perspective on A, B, A, B, and B, A, and then we have the B perspective on A,
B, B, A, and so on. Then we get more methods, but in general our people suffer from a flattening
of our relationship with FRC and we need help from people who have, who can and have actively
unflattened that relationship. It's extremely difficult for us to do this by ourselves
and the people who we revere as prodigies, some of them prodigies of being human,
like Jane Goodall for example or Jacques Cousteau, some of them prodigies of specific disciplines
like Touring or Einstein or Kurt Goodall, some of them prodigies of a nature of cognition itself
like Alfred Korzybski or Alan Watts. And we might claim there are prodigies of spirituality,
but I am skeptical of this for many reasons. There do however to be, there appears to be
something like prodigies of insight or awakening and what I mean by that is prodigies of seeing
through the mind, right? Prodigies of cutting through the mind and these might be people like
Dogen or perhaps in modern times John Tarrant Roshi, one of my old teachers.
And there are also perhaps prodigies of recovering the mind of the ancients within us,
but these are very difficult to point to. Julian Janes is one of the only easy examples. Bruno
Snell I think wrote a book called The Discovery of the Mind, if I remember correctly,
it's very important because we don't realize that it is generally common for us to believe
that a person who lived long ago essentially had the same kind of mind we have
and they did not. And part of there's all kinds of reasons why they did not.
The sun and the earth were younger and different. The ecologies were profuse and unspoiled.
Our people grew up during a paradisical epoch of earth's biological development
and the intelligences of the ancients partook of that unimaginable
profusion of life and intelligence, not the kind that we have, not FRC,
intelligence in relation, forms of relation that became forms of intelligence in the ways they
structured memory. Now, most of what I've done today is hint toward things, toward perspectives and
assets we contain and are unaware of largely. One of the astonishing things about biocognitive
hyperstructures is there are layers of pace, there are layers of biorelational time,
and some of the tiny ones are unimaginably fast and some of the huge ones are unimaginably slow.
Well, unimaginably, they're difficult to imagine, perhaps they're not impossible.
At the level of a virus, time is a very different thing from the level of a bacteria,
from a bacteria, to a tiny insect, a very, very different thing, from an insect to an animal,
a different thing, from a mouse to a cat, a different thing, from a cat to a horse,
a different thing, from a horse to a human, a different thing. And each of these infolds
many layers of biorelational temporality so that in a sense we can understand organisms as
productive of time. I am want to say that organisms and ecologies are to
time what stars are to light or energy.
Our behavior structure memory and the contexts in which we emerge and interact
instruct our behaviors. They encourage or inhibit, reveal or obscure
the potentials we bring to human birth as part of our essential humanity.
And so where those contexts are crude or mechanical, where they are domineering or enslaving,
or rapacious, or cruel, or vicious, or impoverished, we become blind. We become,
we adjust to survive within them. And by adjust, I mean we eject whole aspects of our potential
for insight and intelligence and creativity and humanity. And that is a tragedy we must,
I think, address together. First by recognition, then by understanding,
then by bold and urgent union, then by action, with and for each other. And the history and
future of life on earth. And when we act in concert with the purpose of underpinnings of the history
and future of life on earth, we acquire allies we cannot otherwise conceive of.
And in this direction lies hope for our species and for those people who will with great sobriety
recognize this. Why do I say with great sobriety?
Because we are also inclined to strange religions, to bizarre sort of seemingly beautiful
deceptions. I heard some people talking about the findings of a man who claims to be a scientist.
I've not seen his credentials. He cites some papers. His name is, what the hell is his name?
I even remember it. Hopefully not. This is one time when I really, I'm kind of glad I can't
remember the name. There's some video circulating about some guy with what seemed to be bold insights
about COVID. But when he cites medical papers, he's lying through his teeth. He hasn't even read
the papers. And he makes up things about them that have nothing to do with what's written in them.
And what that means is whatever it is he's doing, it isn't science. And he sort of claims to be God's
gift to medicine. But he inciting papers to support his claims, he profusely crafts falsehoods.
And there's people in this thread saying, well, I go with spirit. I go with intuition.
So they don't care that he's lying. They literally don't care. They just like what he's saying.
And this is what I mean by strange religions.
Science does not tell us the truth or identity of things. But a man or woman who uses it to lie
and lies about the science itself is stealing authority, right? They're attempting to steal
authority. And morally and ethically, that's repugnant. And this is why we should carefully vet
people who claim to have authorized insight. Now, science, I'm going to depart the topics I've been
orbiting here and hint hinting at, and I'm going to move toward
the other part of the discussion that I wanted to have today, which is very delicate and relates
with what I'm talking about. So this scientist, this supposed researcher, gosh, now I do wish
I could remember his name. I'll add it to the comments on the video. He claims that he cites a
paper claiming that it found that 42 viruses were found in people who had been thoroughly tested and
shown to be healthy, uninfected people, thousands of them. And yet when we look in their blood,
we find HIV, we find all these other viruses. And this is part of his really bizarre argument,
which, you know, like many sort of conspiracy theorists, there's a half-truths involved. Yes,
the world is filled with viruses. Yes, there are probably thousands of different kinds of viruses
in our bodies. However, he's lying about the paper because the paper does not say anything about
having any, it actually says the opposite of what he says. None of these people were tested
for pre-existing conditions, whereas he claims that their blood was thoroughly, that they were
thoroughly tested for pre-existing conditions before having had this analysis done on them,
and that the analysis found, you know, all these viruses in their bodies, and yet they weren't
having symptoms. Well, that's not what the analysis did or found. First of all, none of the people
were tested for pre-existing conditions, so the cohort included people who had HIV or HPV or
HSV or, you know, a number of other viruses. And what the goal was was to establish what the
virome, what the human blood virome, might contain. And what that means is not which viruses are in
your blood, it means if we survey your blood and we discover little chunks of viral DNA, we can
determine, with a modest degree of confidence, to what you have somehow been exposed in your
lifetime. That doesn't mean you got a virus. That doesn't mean a whole virus entered you. That means
that somehow little pieces of viral DNA got into your bloodstream, and that could be by viral
exposure. You might have had a disease or have a disease, but he makes the claim that the study
found, you know, all these viruses in people. Actually, the study wasn't looking for viruses,
it was looking for viral DNA. And it's very important to understand that when we test,
there's different ways we can test blood for exposure. And one of the common ways of testing
is to look for fragments of a specific virus's DNA or antibodies to a specific pathogen.
This doesn't tell us necessarily that there are whole viruses in the blood. In fact, it tells us
the opposite. The study did claim that it made some modest effort to look for whole viruses,
but that effort was not part of the study. So, in essence, this guy is basically just boldly
lying about the study, and he's lying about it in a way that he's using to support his pet theory
that is nonsensical, which is that all of us have HIV and HSV, and we have all these diseases,
and what actually is going on is just that our immune system isn't very good because of, you know,
problems in the environment. Now, again, half truths, right? We are, our immune systems are
sensitive to problems in the environment, not a joke. But I'm going to leave this topic here,
because it's not my purpose to expose this person's abuse of scientific literature or
authority. But when you see someone attempting to steal authority from science or religion,
you should have a moment's pause and be skeptical, and, you know, a little bit of suspicion should
arise in your mind, and you should say, hmm, why would they be doing that? Right? Why would they
need to steal authority? Why can't they just demonstrate directly the factual basis of their
ideas, at least statistically? And this is the topic I want to proceed upon briefly. I want to
talk a little bit about statistics. Because in our modern circumstance, we, so look, scientific
research forms a continuum between totally unreliable and very reliable. Einstein's theories
of relativity have so far proven astonishingly reliable. The theory of there being an ether in
the universe has mostly been disproven. Or, it's the other word, it'll come to me.
In any case, one of the things that's going on these days is humans are using statistics
to try to determine how threatening a phenomenon is or isn't. And there's lots, there's not really
too many terrible problems. Well, different people would see this differently. One of the,
Nassim Nicholas Taleb is aware of gaping holes in our relationships with statistics. He's not the
only one. And he's kind of a pain in the butt for various reasons. Brilliant though he is.
There are people whose headlights are so fucking bright that it blinds them.
And he might be one of those people. And in some dimensions of my own life, I am one of those people.
And that's how I know about that problem. Because I experience it with myself.
In any case, there are lots of problems with how we use statistics. And it's very easy
to write science papers that give the appearance of having correctly derived evidence
when in fact they did no such thing. As a person who works directly in a scientific
editing company with a neuroscientist, and I've been doing this now for 15 years,
it's very, I've spent thousands of hours talking with him about how papers can be forged, flawed,
and still get published, how they can fail in peer review to be properly disambiguated,
how peer review can be manipulated. All of these things are true. It doesn't mean we can't trust
science. It means that just the same way when you consider whether or not to eat a piece of food,
you're going to do some disambiguation. You're going to kind of sniff it, maybe.
You're going to watch the other people eating the food. You're going to intuitively have a sense
of whether it's okay to eat this food or drink this drink or not. And we have to do the same
thing with science. We can't just presume that because a paper is published that its claims are
true, but unfortunately we're in a worse position than that because most of us can't read a science
paper and determine whether its claims are true or not. We depend on others to do that and
the vast majority of us don't even get that far. We depend on people in the media to tell us what
science papers, you know, what research papers have discovered or not discovered, and those people in
the media are mostly either unequipped or intentionally spinning the findings
to produce a result that will get them more airplay. So as common people in the media environment,
we are in an array of traps and it's a very dangerous array, particularly as it relates
to statistics and science. And right now people are having little wars with each other
on social media and in their lives and with their families over their preferred methods
of thinking about topics, right? Like the person I said who posted this guy's video of this supposed
scientist and said, you know, well, I don't really care if he's lying, I'm going with spirit or
intuition, right? This is what I mean by religion. We have informational religions these days,
we have statistical religions. Instead of having the capacity to together
adeptly disambiguate information that we can derive from circumstances and testing and situations,
we have actually pretty much the opposite of that. And this is one of the grave dangers of the kinds
of minds our modernity equip us with, if you could call that equipping. It's almost a kind of
crippling attachment. It's almost, I mean, one other way to say it would be the kinds of minds
our modernity parasitizes us with. So what I want to say briefly, and I know this is
a radical change of topic from the pay in to intelligence and bio relation I was singing a
moment ago, but it's related because this is the shadow of, this is the dark side of memory,
right? This is the dark side of structuring behavior with our minds and structuring memory
with our behavior. We have this problem with statistics. First of all, what I want you to
understand is there's a couple of sort of precursors I want to introduce. And the first is that
statistics will never catch up to the situation they are modeling. And the second is they are
models, which means vast dimensions of any situation are missing from statistics.
Necessarily so. So if, for example, we ask a question, let's say the question is, here's one I
remember. How many birds are killed by power transmission in the United States in a year?
I don't remember the specific statistic, but I believe that it was in the vicinity,
and I don't remember even which year this question was asked at the moment, but I believe it was in
the vicinity of 9 million. So when you actually look at the study, what you find out is they
looked only at bird corpses found nearby power lines that, you know, on autopsy showed
electrocution. It should be obvious, even to the layperson, that those statistics are wildly
incomplete because bird corpses are food, right? And they certainly didn't find all the birds that
had been electrocuted. So there was some, essentially the study had a grasp on a pie slice
of the phenomenon it was studying. And if you think carefully about statistics, you'll realize
that this is always the case, with very, very few exceptions. If we have a really good grasp
on the context, right? Like, how many rocks are in this bowl, okay? Oh, in that case,
it's relatively easy. We can say, you know, there's nine rocks in the bowl. That's exactly
how many rocks are in there. But if the context is complex and all like nature and biology are
unimaginably complex, and this is one of the problems people are having, they think like, well,
isn't it strange that the novel coronavirus is producing such bizarre, such a bizarre range
of statistics and such a bizarre range of effects? Part of that is just the nature
of how humans gather statistics. And part of it is that we're nowhere near catching up reasonably
approaching the complexity of the phenomenon with which we're faced with this particular pathogen.
And it's not my intention to talk a lot about the coronavirus. I want to talk more about statistics.
So statistics are always going to have a partial grasp. And that grasp is going to skew
in various ways for all kinds of reasons that involve both accidents and intention, right?
Now, that doesn't mean we should dismiss statistics. Language itself does the same thing.
You're going to stop using language, right? You're going to be like, well, you know,
language leads us to confusion all the time, and maybe we should just stop doing that.
I wish you luck with that. It's plausible. I mean, monks and nuns have occasionally accomplished it.
I've had some experience with it myself,
the cessation of speaking or reading or thinking in words.
But we're going to continue to use and rely on statistics. And one of the things that's happening
right now is that, well, there's sort of two, I mean, there's not merely two, but I'm going to,
I'll go ahead and make a dichotomy admitting it first. There's sort of two primary
expressions of our modern, which I mean in this moment, right? Very modern, up to date,
today, yesterday, last month, activity with statistics, particularly around the pandemic,
and things like causes of death and mask wearing and so on and so forth.
One of those intentionally produces disinformation to create a weapon.
It's very easy to create a weapon using statistics and to get people to attack
each other or themselves with that weapon, particularly in this situation.
So we have intentional bad actors. We have accidental bad actors who either don't produce
the statistics properly or don't produce them accurately. And then we have, you know,
what I'll call integral actors, actors who are proceeding with the best integrity they can.
But even then, the statistics won't approach their subject very closely in general.
And there's all kinds of reasons for that. But the main reasons are that the topic here is
unimaginably complex and the sources of the statistics are radically varied
and humans are involved and those humans have purposes in mind. So what does that mean? We
can't trust statistics? No. It means that we need to be very careful about making firm claims
of any kind at all, except those of which we can have relative certainty. For example,
is the novel coronavirus real? Yes, it is. We can, you know, look at the coronavirus under
electron microscopes. We can infect transgenic mice with the virus and they will demonstrate
pathological damage to their organs and circulatory systems and brains and muscles and so on, bone,
whatever. Cox postulate appears to have been properly satisfied here. Is it contagious? It's
wildly contagious. Why doesn't everyone have it? Because each situation is locally unique in terms
of inoculation, vulnerability, the virulence of the strains to which that place was exposed and
the particularly unique
characteristics of a given
infector, a given vehicle of infection, like a person.
Apparently some people are capable of spreading the virus much more effectively than others.
Effective in the sense of, you know, infective. Infectively.
Is it lethal? Well, many people who, there's a reasonable number of people who acquire the
virus that are killed outright by the virus. There's some other population who are damaged,
you know, experience organ damage and it's very early days. There's a lot more to learn. We just
don't know. So what we have to do in a situation like this, where we know there's a threat,
is we have to behave with best guess intelligence and people will have different perspectives
and opinions on what that is. But most of those opinions, they should not be informed.
Our opinions about epidemiology and virology, they should not be informed by politics.
That's cross-contamination of knowledge spaces. So they need to be informed by the people
who are best educated to understand and report on and provide reliable, you know, as
as reliable statistics, they're as reliable as we can get. And we have to be able to disambiguate.
We have to be able to distinguish between statistics that are as reliable as we can get
and that are best guess evaluations of a threat that is certainly credible
to make determinations about our behavior. Now, there are political aspects to the problem,
but I'm going to leave those alone. I'm here to talk primarily about how statistics are confusing
and that the fact that they're confusing doesn't mean we can dismiss them.
Nor can we really go shopping in sort of social media for the statistics we like best.
And this is another common thing that's going on. And by the way, all of this is related to the
behavior of formerly representational cognitives and what they do, you know, what they're,
what they, the purposes for which they employ mentalistic behavior
and their predilections to fall victim to certain kinds of habits or
contagiously virulent perspectives.
And I'm sure that what I'm saying here is complicated because
I've often argued that the word because most often begins a lie in English,
and I think it's probably true. Like that's the word with that weird, that weird quality.
Because part of what I'm telling you is both that we can trust and we must mistrust
statistics. And if you say, well, Darren, you're telling me to do two things that are in conflict,
I'm going to have to agree. But what I'm saying is the same thing that I would say about science
papers, research papers, particularly in non-mechanical fields, like biology or epidemiology or virology,
pathology. We have to get the best data we can and continue to realize that while the data and
statistics are wildly incomplete, and as that process continues, we're going to undergo probably
catastrophic restructuring of our perspective as we get a better understanding of the, you know,
the whole, as we continue to include more and more information and complexity around the
phenomenon we're studying. Here's an example. Originally, osteoblasts. Okay, osteoblasts,
I think, assemble bone and osteoclasts, I think, tearbone down. And we thought originally
and our research papers demonstrated this, that that was the correct way to think.
That the assemblers of bone were sort of the intelligent cells and the destroyers of bone
essentially just followed their instructions, the instructions laid down by the assemblers.
Turned out that eventually we found out the opposite was true. It's the destroyers of bone,
the cells that tear bone apart that lay down the signals for the builders.
This was quite surprising. We wouldn't have, you know, that was contrary to initial scientific
intuition. And we're going to see, you know, transformations like that in our understanding
of any biological phenomenon that we're using statistics to understand. Not necessarily it's
going to just flip over and invert, but we're going to make discoveries that were unexpected,
unprecedented, unintuitive. Now everyone has their preferred perspectives, but what I'm trying to
explain is that the fact that we can do research and can derive statistics does not mean the
statistics are trustworthy, particularly when they're done by amateurs who have little understanding
of the nature of statistics themselves, right? They're just pulling numbers from somewhere.
They're not actually running statistical analyses. And there's a lot of that going on. There's a lot
of sort of citizen analysts chiming in about the novel coronavirus. And by the way, when they do
that, they are not acting like scientists. Okay, here's the thing that's really important to
understand about science. Science is auto conflicting, which means that you don't set out to champion a
theory, you form a theory and set out to defeat it. That's the opposite of what citizen analysts are
doing. Citizen analysts are setting out to prove a pet theory and not conflicting with it at all,
right? So that's the least trustworthy kind of statistics you could possibly produce in terms
of scientific validity, right? So I just wanted to talk a little bit about this very complex
topic, statistics, and particularly statistics about biological phenomenon. Most of what we have
is extremely tentative. But when we have scientific research, at least we have the intention
to defeat our pet perspective starting out. That's where validity comes from, right? It doesn't come
from asserting something. It comes from attacking it from every angle you can possibly think of
until all those angles have been exhausted. And then you've got something that's relatively
trustworthy for the moment that may change in time. So I'm hoping that we can learn to understand
that together about statistics in general and how we think about and relate with and produce graphs
with and share these graphs on social media and, you know, attack other people's ideas and so on and
so forth. Because what's going on right now is a nightmare of absolutely clumsy methodology
that's grandstanding in public. And I mean, we live in a time and with a president
where lying is celebrated, right? The more you lie, the better it is. Just like the woman in my news
feed is like, I don't care if that doctor's lying. I like what he's saying. He's a scientist. You
don't get to like, I mean, you can like what he's saying. I can't stop you. But kindly don't go around
deceiving other people with your disease, you know? So you think he's cute or something. Good for you.
Don't tell people his ideas are true when he's lying about science in an attempt to validate them.
That's a really dangerous idea. And it's the kind of behavior that's become very common.
And one of the reasons it's become common is that the single male human being,
I mean, the idea that we would elect a single male human being to lead a nation is insane.
But the single male human being, I guess, I'm going to credit him with that description,
with calling him human, because it's only categorically true. But this guy, he's like,
you know, lie hard, right? If at first your lie doesn't succeed, just lie harder. And the reason
that can happen is that there are no consequences for lying as the president of the United States,
which is insane. And just, it's unthinkable. But it's a fact. And so what that's going to mean
is that all kinds of other people are going to adopt that behavior. It's authorized by the
president of the United States, right? It's authorized by his public behavior. So we're
in a very dangerous situation where lying is going, you know, in some ways, at least in many
dimensions, is going to have fewer and fewer consequences. And public lying is just going
to produce cults, little religions of, you know, idol worship, essentially, right?
I think, you know, I like this guy. I like what he's saying. Even when what he's saying is
blatant lies, right? So we have to be a little more careful, because we're talking, especially
in terms of COVID, we're talking about something upon which
the health of millions, the future health of millions of human beings and children
depends. And we don't understand this phenomenon yet. For this reason,
it is wise to err on the side of caution, not on the side of flagrant disregard of danger.
And there are many, I've seen many examples of people who believe that their opinion is more
important than the lives of other people. That's a degree of recklessness that certainly violates
the principles of intelligence and humanity, of moral fortitude and ethical integrity.
It borders, if not intrudes upon behavior we might reasonably call insane.
But it's fairly popular at the moment, and that's not terribly surprising,
as again, our president is the primary exponent of such behavior, and thereby authorizes it.
That must cease. As American citizens, we have to put an end to that behavior forever. We need
to make it impossible for that to ever happen again. This example must become the moment
where, by education, we ascend beyond this kind of crisis, together, within for each other, forever.
This noble corvid sitting on the stone, once upon a midnight dreary, while I pondered weak
and weary over many a quaint and curious volume of forgotten lore.
As I sat there, nearly napping, suddenly there came a tapping as if someone gently wrapping,
wrapping at my chamber door.
To spot the wind, I muttered. Only this, and nothing more.
Thank you for joining me. I look forward to our next adventure.
