Hello everybody. Welcome. Thank you for joining me and for listening. Thank you for your attention.
Thank you for being human in all the beautiful ways that you are human.
Once again, I'm here in the Botanical Gardens.
One of my favorite places to be, with some of my peculiar friends. Many of whom are birds.
And a lot of whom are trees or plants. But the place itself is also my friend.
For I adore it and all of its inhabitants. And though I can't tell if the feeling is always mutual,
I have some reason to suspect that love is very nourishing where it's not imposing or misguided.
And thus is probably easy to share. It can be hard for us to understand how the many beings,
the many other beings communicate. Since most of us become quickly used to language when we're children.
And I think before that happens we participate in some of the original languages that perhaps language isn't the right word for.
We call them ways of communicating that are natural to all beings.
From what I've been able to glean and from what I've been shown, there are universal languages.
Ways of communicating that function invisibly and often with no necessity of making noises.
Though there are plenty of languages in which there's some noise too. Some sound as well.
The sounds of the wind in the leaves of the trees and plants.
One might think, oh it's not language, that's just the wind disturbing the structure.
But the wind itself can be understood as a being, not merely a force.
And the conversation of the wind in the trees is deeply meaningful to one who's oriented to learn and remember and understand it.
Which is to say to participate in it.
It's astonishing what our species has failed to preserve of our myriad potentials for intelligence
that are natural to us in infancy and that we use to acquire the very structured ideas that deprive us of them.
And I'll be talking more about that a little bit later.
In previous talks I explored the idea of synchronization. It's important in our bodies and our relationships and our habits.
And it's an infinite topic and I'm fond of the two German words I accidentally discovered in a book about being bipolar.
The words Zeitstorer and Zeitgeber. And a Zeitstorer is something that tends to interfere with the harmony of synchronizations that are important for our health and well-being and happiness and awareness.
These are Zeitstorers that things that damage the synchronization. And the Zeitgebers are things that return it or enhance it or re-synchronize it.
And last night I was exploring the idea that some of our myths may have captured aspects of this issue without us being aware of it.
Particularly the vampire and the werewolf myths, but also the zombie myth.
And though many of us may have seen situations or people or cohorts that exhibit some of the features of these myths, probably none of us have seen an actual vampire.
And by that I don't mean the species of bat that we associate with vampires, but rather we've been exposed to situations.
I'm sorry, one moment. Having a little adventure here. There we go.
Getting to know animals and plants, particularly trees, requires patience. They live on a different wavelength of temporality than us.
And their imperatives are different from those we might most easily sense or derive.
So one of the most primary Zeitgebers is sunlight on our skin. And many of us are aware that sunlight on our skin transforms our metabolism, causing it to produce vitamin D.
But that's one of probably a thousand different things that happen. It's the one research focuses on.
Get sun, it's good for vitamin D production. Well, sure, it's not entirely untrue, but that's not even the beginning of the story and it's entirely misleading if we think that's why we need sunlight on our skin.
The necessity of harmony and health in our synchronizations is fundamental to being an organism and an animal.
If you don't believe me, just take a plant that requires sunlight and deprive it of that sunlight, actually don't do that, but do the thought experiment.
I could list a hundred other experiments. Take a lizard. Again, don't do this, but put it in a box with no light. It will die right away, very, very quickly.
Even if you give it food, it will stop eating. And it won't be able to digest food.
So there's a lot going on with sunlight. And in our modern circumstances, many of us, we wear clothing all the time.
Where I live, it's often chilly, even when it's sunny. And there's no good place for me to easily expose my skin to the sun. And for many, many years, I didn't.
Much. Of course, my hands and my face, but what we really, where we really need the exposure is on the large skin surfaces. Our chest and abdomens and backs and arms and legs.
And that one change will change the animal we are. We are a changeable animal.
And this should be obvious, because instead of being largely endemic to a specific place that is friendly to our animals we are, we go everywhere.
Everywhere. In the freezing cold, in the burning heat, under the ocean, up in the mountains, down in the valleys, in the deserts, in the forests. They're humans.
So I was thinking last night about, you know, we've seen situations in which people are acting like zombies. Maybe people are acting like they go insane and become like mad dog people in the night.
And we've certainly been around people and definitely situations that are vampiric in the sense that they suck, literally. It's draining to be exposed to these analogies that are pointed toward by the ideas of vampires and zombies and werewolves.
So it occurred to me, after having spent some time in the sun and directly feeling the transformation immediately within a single day, that we've become dissociated from some of the most fundamental and important aspects of our health and humanity.
That's no secret to anyone. But discovering which ones we can easily retrieve to our experience and participation. That's a great medicine. That's liberating.
So I was musing last night that our ideas about vampires and zombies and werewolves might actually be about something real.
And I'll leave aside the questions around where these myths particularly come from and whether or not they may represent the vestiges of knowledge that was lost to us.
But it occurred to me that those of us who are deprived of sunlight and thus perhaps the most fundamental zeitgeber, second to that would be probably when we eat.
However, contact with other humans is a powerful zeitgeber when it's not a zeitstorer.
In contact with machines is a profoundly powerful time stealer, zeitstorer.
So I was thinking in our modernity, we're all walking around wearing clothes all the time, not getting sunlight.
This may cause our species to branch because we can be transformed while we're alive.
And one of the branches is those who are deprived of sunlight.
And when we are deprived of sunlight, the heartbeat of our circadian rhythms goes awry and other rhythms that we don't even have names for go out of whack.
And I wonder what it would be like if they were in whack.
Would that mean they were whack or wacky?
In any case, I just thought, ah, maybe these old myths about vampires and zombies and werewolves and such.
These are encodings of lost knowledge about what happens to us when we leave the world of the sun and we don't get sunlight on our skin.
And so we become then sensitive to the vastly more subtle rhythms of the nocturnal world, the moon, the stars, space-time itself.
And there's lots of reasons why people can't sleep at night, not just one.
Not all of them want to, but many of them would like to, most of us probably.
And if you happen to have this problem, if you expose your skin to the sun in a good-sized area of your body surface
for 20 or 30 minutes early in the day, ah, here's a mating pair of hawks. You may have heard them.
If we expose our skin to sunlight for a good 20 to, you know, more time is better, but of course don't get sunburned.
Early in the day, particularly in the morning, but any time in the day is better than, you know, no time, you will immediately notice changes very quickly in all kinds of things,
including your digestion when you want to sleep or be awake, your capacity to sleep deeply, your dreaming, all kinds of things.
And it's one of those aspects of being human that it's hard to overstate. We desperately need to be in sunlight.
Our skin produces all kinds of different, it radically alters our cellular metabolism in general in ways that are important for our health,
but particularly for our sleep and digestion. And those two things are extremely tightly linked.
In order to understand how important these synchronizations are, one really, it's the kind of thing one has to have experience of directly.
Yeah, because just talking about it doesn't get there. And this is true of most of what it means to be human.
So if you have trouble with your sleep or digestion or other aspects of your health and you're not getting any sun on your skin in a big way throughout the day,
I hope you might experiment and find a way to spend 30 minutes or longer in direct sunlight getting that on the surface of your skin,
particularly your torso, arms and legs.
I'm going to pause here for a bit while I get some sun, and when I return, I'll begin to speak about today's topic, our mind.
So now I've had some sunlight, a very rare thing for me to get on my skin, and some meditation.
I've been a student of the Rinzai Zen tradition for a long time now, since my late 20s.
And I've found that practice to be profoundly nurturing and helpful in my life.
It can be a little more difficult for people who enjoy what we usually think about as intelligence.
People who think a lot turn problems and ideas over in their consciousness regularly or constantly.
And I've often considered the irony that while adult humans are quite concerned,
when their infants fill their diapers and change those diapers, hopefully pretty quickly,
the adults don't seem to be concerned about having the same problem in their minds.
And so, most of us throughout our lives, we have no idea, the idea of cleansing the mind doesn't occur to us,
and even if it did, we might not be sure how to proceed.
I'm not a big fan of labels and badges and such, so I don't consider myself a Buddhist.
And it always seemed a little ironic that the people concerned with cutting through the mind would have a label for that.
But it's no problem, and doesn't disturb me or do I react against it.
I just don't really take it on in the same way that I don't really take on the label of healer or shaman, therapist.
Though I kind of like the idea of being someone's friend or companion.
In any case, many of us have little or no experience with cleansing the mind, washing it off.
And it really gets extremely dirty over even relatively short periods of not being cleaned.
But that's merely one idea, the idea of cleansing the mind.
And I think the trope about the adults worried about their children's diapers,
and the children become quickly aware that the adults have problems in their minds, right?
They never change the diaper of their mind.
And it's really nice to be able to start with the fresh one.
It's a very different experience of being human.
And though I've been sitting for many years on and off,
perhaps more when there's great trouble in my life,
I'm more inclined to return to my practices at such times,
for they provide a supportive basis for me to try and work with things that otherwise seem really unworkable,
or devastating, agonic, meaning to cause agony.
A couple of times it's been incredibly important to me to have the practice of meditation.
And the whole idea of meditation and the search for awakening or liberation,
these traditions emerge from the discovery that our minds are really like a prison,
that keeps building new kinds of cages.
And most of us are unaware of this because we've spent our entire lives
building those cages and reinforcing them and fighting over them
and arguing and making demands and assertions and declarations and so on.
Which is deeply unfortunate because underneath the prison is a shocking paradise of ecstatic union.
And different traditions may have different stories or models or goals,
but the simplest way to understand these things, these ideas,
is just that we're trapped in the superficial structures that were established during our childhood and throughout our lives.
And it's actually quite painful to be trapped that way because deep inside us,
there is something like original light or perhaps original emptiness.
And that emptiness isn't the same as nothing.
Now it's often referred to as emptiness or void.
I suspect in talking about these things is a little bit dangerous because already we're stuck in language and concepts
and I don't want us to get stuck there, but I'm willing to take some risks.
So whatever is meant by this idea of void or emptiness, original nature, true nature, these ideas,
as I understand it conceptually and that's an entirely different thing from understanding it directly,
experiencing it, participating in it directly.
The void and the emptiness refer to the transcendent fact that there are no static beings
and that everything is transforming.
In the heart sutra, Avalokitesvara is talking to Shariputra and says,
All things are essentially empty, not born, not destroyed, not stained, not pure, without loss, without gain.
All five skandhas, the sensing domains are empty.
Of structure that persists, they are an intimate dance of infinite transformations.
The idea of a static self, a darin, is an illusion and it's the kind of illusion
that's not dissimilar to some of our technologies which have captured some of the features of our consciousness.
If you just keep flashing an image and you keep speeding that flashing up, the image appears static.
Our computer screens and phone screens and so on, they have what's known as a refresh rate,
which is how often the surface is redrawn, either line by line or pixel by pixel.
And so, the images that we see on our phones, they're not like statues or photographs, actual photographs.
They're actually an illusion caused by the way that our visual senses and nervous system and brain and so on process information or stimuli.
And so, when we're looking at the television and we see, for example, an image of a person, what's really going on is quite bizarre if we were to understand it.
Either the screen is being drawn line by line so quickly that what appears before us is a static image or pixel by pixel.
And it's a complex thing and there's lots of fascinating things to learn about that.
But we keep refreshing ideas and concepts and beliefs and feelings while we're awake.
And so, we believe in a separate self, we believe in individuals, they seem entirely real to us.
And yet, if we go deeper, we find something unexpected and perhaps indeed unspeakable.
Though those who have experience of this essential nature, this emptiness, they can play around in language
and in deeper ways together to see if someone is experienced with this non-thingness.
And to see perhaps something about how deep their experience of it is.
This is mostly found in contexts appropriate to it, such as Mondos in Zen.
This is a peculiar kind of exchange often between a teacher and a practitioner.
And some of you may have heard that there are these mysterious sayings called koans,
which I think means public case.
And there are many, many koans.
It's not uncommon, however, for a person who's a Zen practitioner to never proceed beyond even one koan.
An example of a koan is probably the most well-known in English is what is the sound of one hand clapping.
Now, there's an interesting word play there, but that word play does not resolve the koan.
The word play is what, what, what.
That what word actually may resemble very closely the sound of one hand clapping.
And, you know, something fun to play with there, but that's not, I think, what the koan points at.
One of the people, the first koan they will be exposed to is the koan of old Joshu,
who was walking with, usually it's posed as three young monks, although it's not clear that they're young.
They're up ahead of him a ways on the path, and Joshu was a kind of a magical being in a sense,
though Zen tradition might frown on saying this, but it was said that when he spoke,
little lights glistened and sparkled around his mouth.
And Zen is a very difficult path. It's not for everyone.
So they were walking, and the monks were arguing a bit, for they'd come across a sort of a wild dog,
maybe a, maybe a kind of mangy animal, and where they lived.
Such animals were conceived of as disgusting or pests, perhaps the way that Americans might think about rats.
Some Americans, not all of us, the rat people are dear to my heart, the mouse people, all the living beings.
In any case, the monks were arguing about the dog, and it's a sort of tenet of Buddhism that I may get this wrong.
I'm an amateur here, though I've spent a great time in reflection and study and practice.
But there's a tenet that all beings are completely endowed, fully endowed with true nature, the original light, or the emptiness that sings.
And so the monks were looking at this dog kind of in disgust and thinking, well, this is surely a, this is a creature whose karma must be very tangled and grim to be born into this form and to have to live this life.
Who knows what they were thinking, what they were arguing about whether or not the dog had Buddha nature.
And so the koan goes like this, a monk asked Joshu, does the dog have Buddha nature or not?
And Joshu said, moo, moo, which isn't simple to translate, put it mildly, but on the surface it means no.
Now at other times, apparently, Joshu answered the same question, yes, and he may have given other answers.
But at that moment when Joshu said moo, one of the monks awoke and was liberated.
And what does it mean, was liberated, what does it mean awoke?
It can't be communicated in words, I don't think, but essentially it means to see through the mind, to cut off the mind road and directly experience and embody one's original nature, which is no nature at all.
Now I tell these stories and I'm talking about meditation now because most of us will live our entire lives in a complex array of prison like traps and consciousness in thinking.
And we who live this way and I mostly live this way with punctuated experiences of wonder or mystery or perhaps even a moment of awakening.
But for those of us who do live in the prison world of our minds and our societies are constantly refreshing and imprinting and re-imprinting and diversifying the kinds of traps and the modes and forms and brands of traps
that we generally sustain and think of when we think of what things are, what something is, what's going on, what's the sound of one hand clapping, who am I, who is that, what are they doing, who is right, what is wrong, all these things.
This is all a very toxic game.
And for those of us who continue to live in society, there are those who retreat away from it to monasteries and so on.
It's our everyday experience to rebuild the prison and it begins the moment we awaken from sleep, if indeed it does not continue within sleep.
A mind is a many-layered thing and we moderns acquire stratified layerings of concepts and words and models and theories and ideas.
And while it's not my intention to say we should throw all of that away, it is my intention to say that we should have the opportunity to cut it off and see beyond it and see without it, to be renewed, to be reborn, to be refreshed,
to emerge from sleep like an infant on his or her first day and to experience the world and our own being free of all of the structured nonsense and garbage, arguments, judgments, courtroom like bullshit
that otherwise tends to infest our minds and hide their nature from us.
We should all have that opportunity if we wish to pursue it.
If there's anything that's a fundamental right and I have deep questions about the language of rights, this seems to be a fundamental right. All of us should have this opportunity.
Now of course when we dream, something very different is happening from what is happening when we're awake and our waking mind, believe it or not, isn't very good at understanding it.
Though there are people and ideas and models that can be helpful, the problem there is we're just piling more junk on top of something we don't understand and then pretending to have understood it because we made a bunch more junk.
The other day someone I care about posted that she'd been stung by a wasp and no one, well, it would be certainly very uncommon for anyone to desire to be stung by a wasp.
Though humans are diverse enough that some people probably actually go out into the world and get stung by a wasp on purpose.
But I mentioned to her that though I understand that that experience is frightening and painful, and when I say that, please trust me, it's true.
I've been stung inside my ear, between my fingers, on my eyelids, inside my nose, and when I was very small, well actually I wasn't that small.
I don't know, when I was six or seven, I had an encounter with the yellow jacket that nearly killed me, not because I was allergic to them.
That was some really serious pain and the event went on for a long time.
The repercussions of that encounter lasted for months and perhaps nearly killed me.
But what I said to her was, you know, I know this is a frightening and painful thing, but an experience like this, there's something deeply profound about it because there's a transfer of essential,
hmm, well there's a transfer of substance, right, the venom of the sting, and we get that substance in our body and again, you know, superficially no one wants this.
But that transfer connects us to the WASP people and this is no small thing.
It's very difficult for me to explain it in common modern language, but there is a mystical union that happens if we are bitten or stung or scratched by an animal or a plant or if we get an infection, all of these things.
These are events where our body is transformed by receiving something truly ancient from the world and it doesn't always feel good.
In fact, it can be agonic, it can be agony, it certainly was for me and most of the time, when I was stung or bitten or cut or scratched, I didn't understand about the transfer of lineage energy,
right, of lineage medicine between the beings. There's something quite profound there, something worth paying attention to.
So I mentioned this to her and she said, well, you know, it wasn't really that bad, it's just that I know that some WASPs are very poisonous and so I was freaking out and I thought that maybe I was going to die.
And I said, you know, that's a common experience during initiation or ceremony. The death fear comes and this is the great barrier to awakening.
And this I know firsthand in my own way, for I have faced it and in my own way failed. Well, perhaps I partly succeeded and partly failed, but the waking mind associates liberation with death.
It just seems like death. And this isn't always the case, right? Each person's path is unique and their experience is unique. But it's very common, for example, when people are in a sweat lodge that it becomes very clear to them that they are mortal right now and that they may not live through this.
And very brave men and women can be reduced to panic, stricken terror in a ceremonial situation such as that which occurs during a sweat lodge or a Sundance and other kinds of ceremonies.
My own experience is rather unique and I don't intend to talk about it at length today. However, I had a long experience of constant insight that was very shocking.
And each day I felt that I could barely survive it. And some days it tried to knock me out and I would just cling to my consciousness for dear life because I was absolutely terrified that if I gave in to this strange pressure,
it was dragging me inexorably toward unconsciousness that I might die. And I regret that. And I've had other not dissimilar experiences where the sudden onset of an extreme transformation of awareness caused terror.
And it's not our essential nature, I think, that feels this terror. It's the structured prison that we identify with as our minds.
There's something older and deeper, more trustworthy and true underneath all this structured nonsense in the same way that underneath the buildings and paved streets and sidewalks of the city, there's moist earth.
Even if it's been deprived of the living surface that would otherwise enrich and transform it.
And wouldn't it be wonderful if we together could remember how to face the many layered fictions of our common waking consciousness?
To demolish them and see what the nature of seeing is actually about.
And of course in this language I mean inner seeing, knowing, awareness, enlightenment.
So when you hear people talking about enlightenment, they're generally talking about cutting off the mind road, the experience of cutting through the mind, the experience of undifferentiated awareness,
unique to each person nonetheless, that is buried beneath the layered strata of language and ideas and models and concepts and measurements and all of these things.
Now of course in our common lives, we may have some experience of awakening or something resembling it or even counterfeits of it.
Those of us who've experienced orgasms for example are aware at least that we have this propensity, we have this strange capacity of ecstasy,
sudden uncontrollable ecstasy that overwhelms everything and for a moment we're gone from ourselves.
I think in the French language or at least in French thought, orgasm is sometimes referred to as the little death.
What is dying?
Well, one of the things that certainly disappears during an experience that extreme is thought.
The ecstasy overwhelms the thinking mind and enlightenment is usually associated with ecstasy which means to leave stasis, to exit static ideas and identities and things.
And so because we all have within us a memory in a way or perhaps a living forest, a living essence that was there before the cities of thought and language and identity and ideas,
we ache to know the original water from whence we were differentiated and we're thirsty for this water all the time
and trapped in the structured mess of the waking mind, we can be sold things that vaguely resemble it.
Intoxications, drugs, alcohol, cigarettes, pot, psychedelic drugs
and some of these things in certain circumstances with some people in some situations could actually be medicinal in that under their influence we may glimpse,
we may become suddenly aware that there's another universe and we're always with and in it, but ordinarily it's inaccessible to us.
And that hint can be very powerful, but even though almost everyone will become aware of this to some degree under the influence of say a psychedelic drug like mushrooms
or LSD, very rarely is it true it's a rare thing for us to be equipped to make intelligent use of it or that's too utilitarian to follow the hint rather than the drug.
So what more often happens is that people become inclined to associate the drug with ecstasy, of course ecstasy, we actually have a drug called ecstasy, MDMA.
And that association is quite dangerous if our actual hope is to awaken and this is why there are very few enlightenment traditions
that would promote or authorize the use of such drugs and I'm aware of many stories about this, there was a story of a man who went to a Tibetan monastery
and had taken LSD in the night and one of the monks there appeared in his awareness over and over again and he could sort of half participate in that monk's awareness.
And later the next day the monk came to him and said, what are you doing?
And he said, well, what do you mean? I saw you last night. He said, I know you saw me. What are you doing?
And he said, well, you know, I was using LSD because it could help me see and the monk said, no, no, no, no, you're completely confused.
You've got this all backwards. Don't do that again and don't do that here.
Now this is a specific circumstance and there are many other kinds of circumstances.
But the monk's awareness was so open and refined and clear that what the Western guy was doing was like toying around with something sacred in a dangerous way.
You know, a man who I don't yet know on Facebook, an indigenous man was telling some stories and he told stories of a man with a great power of knowledge, great awareness, deep awareness.
And people came to him and they would bring him gifts because when there's an exchange, there's a transfer from both sides, right?
The wasp that stings me, some of my being and body goes with that wasp and the venom stays with me, perhaps.
But it's also in the wasp and so in a way now we are going to always be together.
So often there are offerings before someone asks for something, before someone asks for something powerful.
In any case, they'd bring this old man some gifts and they wanted to ask him some questions and they asked him, and this isn't my story.
And I don't understand that it's just one I've heard and it's useful.
But they asked him, because he knew something about lightning, where would lightning strike next?
And he said, you know, it's not a very good question.
You're being nosy. You're trying to test my powers and that's not the right kind of relationship to have with knowledge or with power.
It's not there to be tested. So maybe you should ask something that you yourself can learn from or that is important.
Now this is my paraphrasing of the story and the story goes on and again, it's not my story.
Although I think the man who shared it was sharing these stories with the idea that they would be preserved and shared.
And see this is the problem right here.
The waking mind is very interested in grasping, manipulating.
It wants commodities, it likes tests and courtrooms and analyses and measurements.
It wants proof.
But proof, to seek proof of something, is quite often a purpose estranged from understanding awareness and intelligence.
And this very old man who I think was Anish Nabi was aware of this problem and immediately saw through the mess that was about to be made.
And testing or proving a power is a dangerous thing because something that's authentically sacred has to be protected.
It has to be distinguished from the structured layers of nonsense and rationality and logic and so on that actually kill it off.
Those imperatives are what evict our deepest essential awareness.
Most often.
Again, none of these things I am saying are absolute. There are exceptions. Language is tricky this way.
So you know, we think we have minds. What are minds? What are these things? Are they things?
How did we come to have a mind? The mind that we experience while awake, the mind that is drawn to the many counterfeited treasures of modern thought, behavior, activity and experience.
What is a mind? For most of us, our experience of this will be very limited.
We will be like people who live in a prison that's dressed up as fantasy land, Disneyland, and we will think that we know what we know and believe what we believe and can name what we name.
And that we've learned how to do this and this is how it is to be human.
Well, if having just the tiny joint at the end of your pinky is what it means to have hands, that's what most of us will come to experience as having a mind.
Whatever a mind might be, it is profoundly mysterious, but what I wanted to touch on in this talk today was the precedence of dreaming and memory.
Surely, if you have no memory, you will have nothing like a mind, as we understand it, and you won't be able to structure the flows of awareness into static forms.
Now, if we were able to suddenly stop doing that, to cut off the mind road, to see through the mind into our original nature, which is no nature, then we would all understand that this fantasy game, which is very addictive and profoundly compelling once we become involved in it, is a trap.
And it's a trap that leads to endless kinds of ignorance that masquerade as intelligence.
Now, someone who is seen through the mind can use the capacity for structuring consciousness with great freedom.
And this is prodigy. And many of the people we revere as prodigies found their own way either to see through some aspect that would otherwise trap them and gain specific kinds of liberty, or they saw through the whole thing and gained what we might call true liberation.
Now, the thing I want to make clear is, when we were little, we were dreaming while we were awake. And we called this play. And, well, we didn't, the adults did. For us, it was just naturally how we were.
So we were dreaming while we were awake. And I've had this experience, and it's really something as an adult. It's provocative beyond my capacity to convey here.
But what happened is, in the daytime, we would be imprinted by the minds of the adults around us and our peers, and the culture, and the television, and the computer, and so on.
And when we were very small at night, the dreaming was so powerful, it would wash all that away every night. But we learned how to capture part of that incredibly powerful, intelligent flow, and transform it into static structures that could be preserved across the gaps of sleep and dreaming,
so that eventually we sort of had a small island in this sea. And at first, that was an amazing accomplishment that I think we were deeply proud of.
Yet most of us intuited that there was danger there as well, because as children, we can sense in the adults the presence of something tragic and malformed.
So as time went on, that little island became a city, and eventually much of dreaming and imagination and play was evicted from our waking consciousness.
And we still have the faculties within us. We still want to play and have adventures and learn and grow. And that's beautiful. I'm all for that.
Unfortunately, though, and again, there are exceptions all over the place. Artists and scientists and doctors and medicine people, all kinds of wonderful exceptions. Sorry about the wind.
Well, sorry about the noise, actually.
While there are many exceptions, nearly everyone has been mostly evicted from the dreaming world that is natural to our being as humans.
And I think thousands of years ago there was still something of this going on, but it was much more gentle, not as pervasive, and it had reverence for the aspects of awareness associated with our deepest natures and dreaming.
I don't have a better word than dreaming, but we begin able to deeply participate in awareness and life.
And then we acquire the capacity instead to tokenize it, identify things, name them, to reference them, to re-ference them.
And this is abstract. This is non-participatory. This is cognitive. This is linguistic. This is theoretical. This is categorical.
These are the structured aspects. The structured faculties that emerge from collapsing the living flows of dreaming into structures that can be preserved and transmitted over time.
Now, these topics are very deep, and it was my goal today to broach them in a way to spark some interest in them.
And I still have much to learn and understand about these matters, but I am fascinated by the story of what happened to the dreaming way as we became entlanguaged and enculturated.
Many people will say things like, oh, well, your imagination, you had when you were a child, you'll grow out of that. That's not true. That's not right.
Something else happens. It gets captured by processes, habits, and imperatives that have nothing to do with our true nature as beings, organisms, humans, or at least very little to do with that.
And instead transform us into a kind of a living dead thing in the sense that nearly all of the faculties that would otherwise be naturally available to us, including things we consider impossible,
things we've called psychism or telepathy or prophecy or medicinal empathy, co-feeling, to know another being from inside that being rather than from within a structured mess of concepts and language and identities.
To travel anywhere without moving, to move our awareness in time, to transfer our awareness to other beings and bide with them, go with them, beings like lakes and rivers and mountains and stars and worlds.
All of these faculties belong to humans, but they cannot survive the decimation that occurs when the dreaming flow is captured, structured, and preserved as tokens and references.
Or rather, they survive, but like an exile, they are found when we dream.
And there are other ways of having awareness while we're awake. There are various kinds of trance, which is a way that we can use to penetrate the structured strata of our otherwise relatively deadened consciousness awareness.
There are many ways.
For those of us who awaken the passionate desire to see through the mind, we have a beautiful and compelling quest to pursue.
And we can help each other in very profound ways, though the quest can also be pursued alone.
I think it's beautiful when we help each other to authentically see through those stratifications within for each other and the history and future of all beings.
That seems to me a truly noble purpose.
And I am passionately hungry.
I am passionately fascinated by all of these possibilities and what we might achieve together in remembering the before.
The before of cities, the before of noise, the before of vastly layered fictions, compelling and misdirecting us constantly.
Wouldn't it be wonderful to just set all that down for a moment? It'll still be there when we return.
Again, however, if we proceed in this quest, we will probably come face to face with the terrifying fear of death.
Because the waking mind is like a distinct being and has its own imperatives and purposes.
And they're very momentous. They have a lot of momentum.
They're also extremely expensive to run all that crap on top of our awareness, requires staggering amounts of what we might refer to as energy.
Much the way, in the same way that our cities and computers and all of these things, they require vast libraries of beings are destroyed to continue to fund them, to continue to maintain those structures.
And so there's something in us like an infinite sun, infinite energy.
But the tiny portion that we may experience in our ordinary consciousness is prison-like and profoundly impoverished.
And if we could simply cut through the structure, turn the city off for a moment, we would have so much awareness energy.
The things that had seemed to us impossible or incredibly unlikely would now become commonplace. And I know this firsthand, it's not a theory.
And this is part of the tragedy, but also it's part of the riddle. It's part of the quest.
It's fascinating that we come to human birth endowed this way, like a bird with a thousand kinds of wings, meant to fly in atmospheres we're too timid to dream of with our waking consciousness.
But with which our dreaming awareness is deeply familiar in the sense of recognizing itself within.
I hope for all of you that you may have the opportunity or perhaps that you may embark upon the quest to see beyond the minds our cultures have assembled in us.
And that most of us thereafter work very hard to improve and preserve.
Of course, what improvement means is in this sense somewhat confused, because real improvement would mean liberation from the tool-like utility-like aspects that dominate our waking awareness.
The same is true of language. These things are supposed to serve us, but if they dominate us, we become their slaves. And now our tools have us, rather than we having tools.
And when that happens, we are lost to ourselves and each other, we're trapped in a very peculiar way that's surprisingly difficult to step out of.
It would be amazing if it were a simple thing, and I could just say a few words to you, and you would suddenly a crack would appear in the strata, and the crack would go to its root, and the strata would shatter into glistening, sparkling brilliance, and we could awaken together.
In that moment, in wonder and an amnesis, in awe and beauty, that would be truly ecstatic. And it's not impossible, but it's uncommon.
So I hope that my talk today, to which your dreaming mind is listening, even if your waking mind is dominating it, may be helpful, may be nourishing.
And that together we can continue on the path to seeing beyond the waking mind and deeply into its origins in history and the development of our species.
Thank you for joining me. It's an honor and a privilege to explore these matters together. Bye-bye for now.
