Yes. So here we are, part two of extraordinary knowing with our guest for tonight,
Darren Stevenson. We're continuing the talk along the subject of more than human.
Darren, why are we? So I was saying, just to give our listeners a physical example of the incredibly
trenchant features of the representational overlays that we're born into,
just look around wherever you may be and count the rectangles. Yes. Try it. Money everywhere. If you
look, the desk, the picture, the phone, the table, the rug, the television, the car, the computer,
the screen. Yes. So we live in, we were talking earlier about like if the people were in a room,
right? And we probably walked a little bit. Yeah. That's very rectangly. But if they're outdoors,
one of the things that, okay, so let's explore this for a moment. We think that when we look up,
we see the sky. Yes, I do. I do, too. It's a natural thing to believe.
But are we sure we see the same sky we'd see together?
That's a good question. The same sky forest is our seeing only personal. This is the myth
of modern culture, right? That seeing that I have, like I'm a container for a mine,
I'd like to suggest that that's very unlikely. And even all of the things, we acquired language
and social cognition and all of the representational overlay stuff from others in a network.
Yeah. So the idea that we have a separate mind is a pretty weird idea and it's part of the,
it's one of the fundamental myths of modernity, right? That minds are separated.
They can't share experience, right? That's considered to be impossible.
Yeah. But astonishing things happen, it turns out, when we get together with a sober version
of this intent and sober doesn't mean not playful. It just means aware of projection and the psyche
having some like caution about, for example, suddenly deciding that a wild narrative must
be the truth, this kind of thing. The things we're prone to as reactions to representational
culture. So yeah, I don't think we see the same sky. I'm pretty sure we don't.
Yeah, I follow you. I've had group experiences of seeing things in the sky that are not,
those aren't things in the lexicon. There are no things that match those.
Yes. I've had that experience too with other people.
And I don't mean a thing that could possibly be an aircraft.
Right? I mean, like something bizarre that doesn't make sense.
Yeah. Or indeed in the natural world, sort of creatures that you don't recognize,
that's happened to me a few times.
Yes.
With other people.
It's very, it's very astonishing if we watch what happens in our minds when we suddenly
encounter something that we don't immediately know what it is, know what it is, right?
And that whole idea of what in most minds means make a separate frame around it,
identify it, and then move on to the next thing. This is not having a mind.
That's a behavior of consciousness, but that's nothing like a mind.
And if we were to get together and explore what it, you know, what can it mean for us
to participate in consciousness together?
That's not the same thing as having a mind either.
To participate in consciousness together.
The myth supposes, well, you do that with your mind.
But what if that's not true?
What if there's another thing that we don't even have language about that we do that with?
That would be a good point.
Yes.
It's important to really question the language that we have in a deep enough way
that we recognize it as we can use it to communicate well together.
Yes, but it is not the thing pointed at.
The thing is not the thing pointed at.
Or actually, yes, the tag is not the thing it points to.
Yeah.
And it's we're trained actually to believe that it is.
Yeah, that is absolutely true.
So normally educational systems are that right?
Yes, they prepare us for functioning in the representational overlay primarily.
Yeah.
So we certainly have astonishing opportunities and they couldn't be nearer at hand.
Right.
It begins with the recognition that the representational overlays
are fascinating and confusing and often bizarre, but they are not true.
Yeah.
They're fundamentally false.
Once we recognize clearly that all the representations are false,
some of them can be useful.
We don't have to be fundamentalist about it or anything.
Uh-huh.
But that's one of the key moments where we begin to acquire the possibility of liberty together.
Yes, the possibility.
That's the key moment when we realize we're participating in consciousness together.
So in terms of that, when we talk about these,
uh, say, you know, in language psychic abilities, telepathy,
dreams where we, you know, shared dreaming.
Yes, shared dreaming.
You know, this is a thing that so many people touch healing by location,
prophecy, different modes of psychism.
Um, so look,
there's a fairy tale, right, where long ago our people were, our minds were born
in intimate relationship with non-human intelligences.
Yeah, that's where I wanted you to go.
And so our minds were made.
This is a fairy tale, right?
We're just as out and as if.
Yes, our minds were made as a companion,
like a physical terrestrial companion of intelligences that certainly are not merely physical.
And ours is that way too, but in a different scope, right?
A lot of our intelligence gets invested in being physical.
Yes, it does.
Painfully.
So long ago, our people all knew this.
They lived this way always.
There was not probably even the idea of me, I, or mine, right?
Everything belonged to the relationship.
All things were within it.
And then there was a catastrophe and the sky door closed effectively and the people went mad.
They couldn't under, it would be worse than if the sun didn't come up.
Okay, much worse than this.
And so people went mad.
There were a few small groups who could still open the sky door
and one or two individual people who could kind of open the sky door.
And so the people would gather around them.
As soon as you had that, what you had was mimics.
You had people who could mimic opening the sky door.
Yes.
And you also had people who were contagiously insane, both, right?
So you got people who can actually open the sky door, mimics,
people who pretend to open the sky door, and people who are actually pretty insane, right?
Their mind is shattered in some way.
Doesn't mean they don't have insight.
Just means, you know, it's a pretty confusing mess in there and it's dangerous.
Right.
And it's contagious, which is another problem.
Insanity is contagious with humans.
Well, it would be contagious if you're participating in the mind.
Yes, yes, precisely.
So it's the same with the tags for the non-ordinary things that humans are certainly capable of.
Yes, you could, again, it's a topology, right?
There's a lot of low-hanging valleys where there's mimics and insane people,
but there's also mountains where those people are not mimicking and it's not insane.
And we don't want to join the valley and we don't want to trade commodities on
non-ordinary abilities and things.
Right.
We don't want this going on.
Yeah, right.
Even in our minds, right?
So again, it has to be approached, I think, with great sobriety and also more than a measure of
a specific flavor of sobriety, which is the Buddhist admonition against acquiring supernatural powers.
Very important reason for this kind of thing.
Yeah, can you just expand on that a little?
Apparently, yes, apparently, according to many very venerable traditions,
on the road to enlightenment, one may
express phases of that process with the development of
I'm frightened of the language, but of psychic abilities.
And perhaps all of the things that we discussed, possibly including things that we think are
completely impossible, like levitation, or by-location, yeah, by-location, teleportation, yes.
We have these ideas.
These ideas weren't mere fantasies.
They are, I would argue, memories.
Yeah, yeah, that's a good one.
They're memories of something.
And the clumsy ideas we have about them, which I think are very naive in general,
and somewhat dangerous, we can set most of those aside and try and just get a taste of the thing
without calling it anything.
We don't have to call it anything.
Let's find out what's possible together.
And we can casually use such language, but we shouldn't believe the model it proposes.
The model of I am separate from you.
I reach into you and find things, and then I show you these things.
Mm-hmm, mm-hmm.
Right?
This is sort of the idea of telepathy.
Yeah, although I was just going to say in my reading about the Australian aboriginals,
for instance, there was no such thing as that model of it.
It would be a group experience where, and this is an important thing, I think,
because I think about this a lot of, like, how, what role do you assume?
Well, when you switch out roles, you're never assuming the role of the psychic in the group,
but for a moment, perhaps you are the one seeing something.
The next day, someone else is seeing something.
So it's kind of like one mind working together,
but you assume different faculties of that mind at different moments.
It's really interesting.
Mm-hmm.
It's really interesting how in an actually well-knit little group,
each of the minds has unique gifts and deficits,
but when you put them together, you get synergy.
And when you get that synergy, you now have abilities that are certainly not available
to you as an individual.
That's right.
For sure.
That's right.
And there have been sort of experiments done like that quite crudely, and it happens,
should we say?
Yes.
It's natural to human beings, in fact.
Exactly.
It's hard to imagine something more natural than this.
It would be like fish avoiding water.
This is the problem.
This is actually what's going on, right?
Yeah.
We were born to make a little ring of humans and forge something not entirely unlike
the stellar astronomy antenna at Arecibo.
We are born from the sky.
We belong to the sky.
This is a planet in space.
All the life here is alien because all of it comes from a planet in space.
And so, literally, we're living on a world where the character and features of the nature
of time space emerge as embodied organisms and then create synergies
This is what I meant.
The Earth is doing something.
Yes.
The Earth is being something.
I like that.
It's not a dead thing floating in space with some humans swirling around it.
Yeah.
Or it's not just a thing that hosts life.
It is.
Let me suggest something astonishing to you.
Imagine that the...
Okay.
Imagine that the Earth is to time what stars are to light.
Okay.
Earth invents billions of forms of living time and then sets them in synergistic relation
with each other.
That creates something in time that's more than a flower and perhaps the most exquisite
unimagined things that humans have never conceived of.
The living world makes time.
Every single organism here is like a time star and their relationships produce synergies.
Machines are the opposite of this.
Dead time.
I like that.
Now, we can think of this as a science fiction story, but what I'm trying to get at is what's
going on is a billion fold more interesting than anything I can suggest to you.
Let's get a taste of that.
It's not that my suggestions are particularly interesting.
They come from having had my mind completely blown away by direct experience of the nature
of nature on Earth and its relation to time space and the sun and the moon, all of the living beings,
perhaps the divine beings, but certainly intelligences beyond our wildest imaginings.
Our science fiction is timid compared to what's actually going on here.
I'd love to get a taste, a deeper taste of that together.
Yeah, me too.
We're made for it, right?
Again, it's like fish returning to water.
This is the thing.
We were born for this.
Yeah, exactly.
Our entire evolutionary history supports this, not the representational overlay.
The whole evolution of life on Earth supports something like what we're pointing at,
not nothing like the bullshit we're told and the clinical derivations and the descriptions
and the hypotheses and the models, the explanations, the dissections.
It's the framing intelligence has gone mad in our species, right?
It wants to frame literally everything.
It will take pictures of people taking pictures of pictures.
You follow me?
Yes, I do.
It's happy.
It thinks that's great.
Let's have more of that.
Except I do want to say, do we think that's great because I just, in my encounters,
people aren't happy with this world of representation.
They want, I think, if they get a taste of what you're talking about so eloquently put,
which is helpful for me to understand what we're pointing at here, the way you put it.
It's like, I want that.
I want to start doing that now or continue, but with more passions, with more adventure.
There is an undiscovered universe that we are immersed in it right now, and we're largely,
most of the time, myself included, completely oblivious to it.
We're totally unaware.
We're not even capable of thinking imaginatively.
For example, that as the bees are to flowers, X is to living worlds.
But it must be so, right?
I'm not saying that's exactly what's happening, but something like that has got to be going on.
We've so framed the world that we think the Earth is framed off separate from time space,
can't be true, not possible.
But what I want to say to you is that if I'm just imagining,
so somebody hearing this for the first time, what you've just said,
I would like to imagine that that's the kind of invitation that you've been waiting for.
I mean, I mean, I'm just saying that.
Like, you know, attractively posed, sure.
Right.
Right.
And also in context, if I go to my neighbor and start talking about time space, that's not going to work.
First, we have to form agreements.
Right.
We have to form agreements.
They don't have to be litigious, but we have to have basic agreements about why we're here
and what we're going to be doing.
And probably the problem with humans is they substitute opinions for thought.
Now, see, I just did the bad thing.
I took the worst common denominator of the topological map.
Yeah.
Right.
So there's a good example.
Yes, that's a good example.
But of course, what I mean, what I'm referring to isn't actually individual humans.
It's the thing we think of when we think of the humans as a species.
Right.
And so then averages stand out to the mind and we make crude generalizations like the one I just made.
But the problem, one of our problems is that, especially here in America, circa 2022,
most people have opinions instead of minds.
And that's what we're trained to have, opinions.
Yeah.
The model is voting.
Since voting is the model and it's not really a communal thing.
It's an individual thing.
Yes, in group and out group form.
Yes, yes, but the model is voting in courtrooms.
So instead of having thought and imagination, we have opinions.
Tragic this.
We'd be better off mostly without them.
They're not extremely useful, except as social currency.
Yeah, yeah.
So in a group that we've actually put together, we might have some prohibitions about opinions.
I want to circle back briefly.
You mentioned we were talking about the Buddhist admonition against seeking powers and apparently
as you're rising up the sort of proverbial mountain side of enlightenment
or maybe falling down into the crevasses, there's a phase where powers arise.
And there's lots of reasons why they admonish us not to pursue that.
And they're very important reasons.
Until we have fully drunk, this is the simple explanation.
Until we have obliterated, until we have really obliterated I.M.E. in mind,
until the self has been thoroughly rendered not present.
Yes, the ego and the psyche will attach to these and it's very common for disastrous results to ensue.
There is a maniacal sort of behavior.
All kinds of different results.
The problem is that there is a membrane between the ordinary and the non-ordinary.
And the way that we open that membrane, the way that we open, quote unquote, the door in the sky
must be hygienic.
We have to be very aware of what does not belong in here.
And there has to be some useful intelligence about what not to do.
All right, a prohibitive intelligence.
And that's the first thing that gets lost once power ensues.
So it's very dangerous.
Let me let me just propose a trope to you briefly.
Yeah, this will explain something of what I'm trying to say.
No, I was just wondering on how, you know, how do you
formalize that?
How do you formalize the concern?
Yeah, exactly.
When you're in the midst of these extraordinary experiences of like, wow, I can do this.
I can do that.
How do you, yeah.
You start out sober and you maintain sobriety together as you proceed.
And the key word being together.
I don't mean sobriety.
Yes, but in other words, it starts with simple agreements.
We will maintain an awareness of the ego and our psyche and our personal fairy tales.
And we will discuss these openly with each other.
Exactly.
And we will, you know, so that we know something about like, what's the minefield for Joe?
What's the minefield for Darren, Tina, for me, you know, Henrietta, yeah.
So that's what that's very important.
And we will maintain that awareness as we explore.
It's extremely important.
Now, it depends on who you're with.
I think.
But it's better than not at all.
I want to put it.
This is the thing.
Okay, yeah.
This is a lesser of two evils problem, right?
It's dangerous to introduce ordinary humans to non-ordinary experience and to their own,
you know, inborn faculties.
But is it as dangerous as not?
It's just having things go on as they do and living these lives that are dead inside mostly
or largely or partly.
Yeah, I think A is seems to be better than B.
I mean, because it's an experiment, right?
Yes, but that doesn't mean we go hog wild with A.
No, we go cautiously explore.
Yes, yes.
Then to not.
Yeah, it's similar to being in a jungle that you are unfamiliar with.
Right?
You need a guide.
You need someone who knows something of the terrain.
Yeah, you need to be wearing the right clothes.
This is why often a single person starts a little group, right?
Because they're willing to lead it and they know some of the dangers and they're concerned
with sobriety and they're not.
It's not a self-advertising thing.
I think the whole representational stuff has to stay outside.
That's part of the hygiene.
Right?
We're not doing this in the rep layer.
We're doing this in the human layer together.
For the sake of all beings, right?
Literally.
A noble purpose carefully pursued generally leads to something good.
That's beautifully put.
Yeah.
But I think it's really important to make sure that we surface in consciousness some
of the dangers of playing with.
Yeah.
Okay, yeah.
Here's what I was going to say.
So there's a membrane between the ordinary and the non-ordinary.
And if we're going to open that membrane, this is a thing that should be done with respect
and caution and like carefulness.
Yes.
We can still play, right?
It's not just a big adult serious thing.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
But we have to have reverence for the dangers of doing this in our time when this is not done.
Exactly.
That's a really good point.
It's what doing that in the here and now is completely different to a thousand years ago.
Yes.
Which actually that would lead us into that whole topic of like,
you know, what are these groups all over the world in cities doing with large amounts of
psychedelics week after week after week?
No, you know, because that's, it's an interesting thing to talk about at some point.
Well, one of the features of psychedelics is that it forces, for most people,
a state that begins to resemble what Owen Barfield calls original participation in his book,
Saving the Appearances, a Study in Idolatry.
So it's sort of saving the appearances, a study in idolatry.
And he talks about original participation by introducing the idea of the rainbow.
Where is the rainbow?
Yeah, you have to participate for there to be a rainbow.
There's no objective rainbow.
Yeah.
That's actually, that's really, that's really good.
That's very simple to grasp.
You know, yes, it's not there if you're not seeing it.
Yeah.
All right.
There's no such thing as an unseen rainbow.
Right.
There might be an unseen car in front of my garage tree.
Yeah.
Yes, but not an unseen rainbow.
And so by this, he introduces us to an array of very important ideas.
I'll mention them really, really briefly.
Figuration is what we do when we recognize features of our experience,
according to collective representations.
That is a tree, that is a chair, Joe's an accountant, Thomas a doctor.
Not no gender stereotyping meant there.
I was just riffing.
Alpha thinking is when we think about the results of figuration
and their relationships to each other in representational consciousness.
I will boil the water to make the soup.
Yeah.
Water in the pan, pan on the stove, turn stove on, soup in, etc.
And physics and science are primarily alpha thinking.
Yes.
They are this kind of thing.
There are molecules, right?
There are photons and so on.
Here's the mechanics.
Here's the equations.
Beta thinking is thinking about the fact of figuration and alpha thinking
from outside of it.
Right.
Right.
And thinking about consciousness and the evolution of human consciousness
and non-ordinary experience.
And perhaps, if we're not very, very careful, silverware.
Okay, so he introduces these and then he begins talking about
that the experience of archaic minds was fundamentally participated.
Right.
They were in and with all of the beings and the sky and the history and their people
in their direct experience.
They weren't doing alpha thinking.
Causality was not a concept for them.
Whether a theory was right or wrong, not very important at all.
And also this recording, you know, the recording aspect was not done.
It's lived memory that continues.
Yes.
There's a looming problem in the background, which is the idea of authorization.
Suppose a psychic walks up to you on the street
and says, your name is Henrietta.
You were born here and there.
These are your parents' names when you were little.
Such and such happened to you and gets everything right.
Right off the bat.
Which is hot.
You're thrust into, I believe you.
There's a very complex thing that happens there with authority in a way.
The psychic is being indelicate to put it mildly because if a person like this shows up,
it violates everything else that you've been thinking.
And so they suddenly acquire incredible authority.
They have extrasensory knowledge.
It appears that authority that they acquire is dangerous to the psyche.
Very dangerous because you feel threatened.
It's not just that.
It's quite complex, but partly it feels like you're in the presence of someone
who is more than human.
That's a dangerous thing in a relationship.
I wouldn't want to do that to my friend.
That would be a violation of that we are here together.
But a weird invasion, an invasion in the domain of authority.
This person apparently is authorized by God.
Yeah, to know things no one can know.
So this presents a psychic crisis of a sort.
And it's easily manipulated by the person claiming to be a psychic.
This is why there are many mimics.
Yes. Okay, that's a very important point to me.
Just to remember these.
I have had non-ordinary experiences,
but I quail at the thought of calling myself a psychic.
I might be willing to do it in a very special context with a very special meaning.
But I wouldn't suggest.
See, the problem is it reifies the fiction of the,
I have my mind, you have your mind, I can touch your mind.
But that's not what's going on.
I don't think that's what's going on.
That's a clumsy, weird explanation of something delicate
and beautiful and profoundly transcendental
that we should have reverence for and respect about.
And try to understand in a more insightful way.
If we're going to model it, let's have models that are decent.
That's why we're going to go with that.
Like what could be the alternative to that very sort of,
not just clunky model, but as you say, dangerous, like not friendly, actually.
Well, if the minds are all fundamentally connected,
then we don't necessarily have a mind.
There's a localization of consciousness.
Yes, there's a localization of consciousness.
And this is just a toy, right?
We can make better toys than the ones that we've been told our tools.
Okay, that's a good way of putting it.
Yeah, I'm satisfied with that.
Because it's not about getting it right, right?
That's the left hemisphere's framing thing, right?
Rectangles and courtrooms and such.
It's not about getting it right.
It's about seeing better together every time we use our faculties.
I love that.
Learning.
That's wonderful.
It's about seeing better together every time we use our faculties.
Now, you can imagine that something like this could become a cult, right?
All you have to do is move it into the representational layer
and you've got commodities again, right?
Sign up for a weekend for 125 ahead, whatever's going on.
And I'm not...
I don't want to just entirely dismiss all of the fascinating things
that humans can and actually do do together, right?
There are brilliant people out there.
Many.
Yes, yes, of course.
And some of them are doing amazing things.
But what we're talking about here is something that we want to clearly differentiate.
There needs to be hygiene between what happens over here
and collective representations.
There needs to be a filter there so that it doesn't become a cult, right?
A religion.
Yeah.
That's not the goal.
The goal is not to make a new religion.
The goal is to see better together.
Yes, yes.
Do you think...
Do you have a sense that these ways of seeing together are actually
sort of more abundant at the moment than they were, say, 10 years ago?
I mean, I'm thinking more...
Don't.
You don't.
But there are certainly...
The number of commodities will continue to increase.
Okay, this is what I want to...
And some of those will be good, right?
There's a topology, right?
Some of them will be mountains.
Yeah, but just because I was noticing that a lot of people that I know
are just more healthily wary of the kind of cult-making group,
this is the answer, thinking that they do take a more exploratory,
investigative mindset than perhaps 10 years.
I mean, that's just what I...
Oh, I see that.
Yes, I see that.
Sure.
I agree about that.
Darren, I just want to say that we've only got...
We've got a minute left.
So can we think of a nice way to close this episode more than human?
I want to make sure we don't lose the recording.
Yes, I follow.
I'm just grateful to have this chance to learn and remember together with you
and anyone who manages to tune in.
Yeah, fantastic.
Thank you so much for all your insights and to share.
And I just want to say to anyone that's listening out there,
we will be speaking in future episodes with a variety of different thinkers,
anthropologists, biologists, scientists, authors, artists, a whole array of humans.
This is the idea that we gather together and explore together.
Thank you.
Thanks, Henrietta.
Good night.
Good night.
