Hello everybody.
Those of you who watch my videos regularly, some of you may have noticed that there's
a mechanical flaw in this smartphone that I use to make videos outside.
So what you'll see every once in a while is an anomaly.
You'll see a flash.
And my guess as a technician is that the cause of that anomaly is a short circuit.
And that every once in a while, when pressure changes on the case of the phone,
front to back most likely, that little short circuit is triggered.
And an anomaly occurs.
And this is the kind of thing I generally find quite disturbing.
And these are the kinds of things I generally don't find quite disturbing.
Because I'm a technician and, well, that's not really true.
What I actually am is a mystery.
And there isn't anyone alive or dead, especially since dead people can't talk, or at least
they can't talk to me most of the time.
Though they might speak as me.
There isn't anyone who can perfectly disambiguate the mystery I am, or you are.
Or even the mystery that some organ in our body comprises like our eyes, which are truly
astonishing developments, or the mystery of what's going on, presuming that there is
something going on, and that it's not actually just nothing going on very profusely.
This is a not entirely uncommon suggestion, or at least one way of framing the suggestion,
underlying many mystical traditions.
But nothing is going on in an incredibly profound layered constellation of ways.
When I say I'm a technician, what I mean is that I have adopted the role of a technician,
and I've adopted that role in a specific domain of my humanity, the domain of vacation.
And those who are listening carefully might suppose that perhaps I am at this moment intoxicated,
but something like the opposite is true.
I've just finished sitting Zazen at a pond, the one that I showed you a little while ago.
It's a nice place.
And during my sit, I had various thoughts, various thoughts arose, as they often do.
And in Zen meditation, we are trained not to sort of pay too much attention to thoughts.
There are various ways of attempting to very crudely frame in language what one is doing
in Zen meditation, but essentially the goal is to sink into deep into the sort of roots
of one's being, allow thoughts to rise and depart, no attempt to suppress them, focus
your attention on the gentle arising and departure of your breathing, and kind of sink down into
the self.
If your eyes sort of half open, don't pay any attention to what you see.
Notice body sensations, but do not focus upon them, this kind of thing.
And as I was sitting, I imagined, as I occasionally have, what might be required for me to actually
experience Satori, or awakening to the true nature of my mind, or cutting off the mind
road, or cutting through mind, and I thought, well, maybe something really, really undesirable
might be necessary for me.
Maybe like getting stung by a yellow jacket, for example.
And I saw a yellow jacket hovering near where I sat down after reciting the Great Heart
Sutra and the Four Valves, and I sat down again to sit.
And I didn't want to experience something really terrible, I don't want to experience
something really terrible.
Everything itself can be quite difficult, though when one is used to doing it, most
of the time it comes fairly easily, and it's not particularly troubling.
If one is in pain, or something else is going on, or one's mind is very agitated, it's not
usually a lot of fun to sit quietly doing nothing, essentially, except following one's
breath with one's attention.
Sometimes I would rather be engaged in some activity that produces the illusion that I'm
getting somewhere, accomplishing something.
Once I sat today, there was an anomaly.
I began to have a terrible itch right here, and I tried to think for a moment, even though
I'm aware that while sitting one doesn't pursue thoughts, or, you know, necessarily pursue
sensations.
I tried to imagine what could be producing such an incredible itch right here.
And various ideas came to my mind, I thought, you know, is there some tiny insect burrowing
into my forehead, into my eyebrow?
Such an ironic, really ironic thing here.
This is another anomaly.
I don't know exactly what this is, and I'm not going to pick it up, but the idea that
a plastic container like this is ecological seems to me very bizarre.
And I'm sure one of those little symbols means, you know, it degrades appropriately in nature,
but I'm just incredibly skeptical.
But over here it says eco lips.
And that's sort of a play on eclipse.
I just really doubt it.
I was coming over here because I want to show my viewers a particular plant that produces
an astonishing seed pod.
Oh, wow, there's little life forms in here.
What are they?
Oh, my goodness, it's baby locusts.
Right?
There are little baby locusts all through here.
And they're just in this one area, and there's a lot of them.
Right?
If I just move some grass around, I can see them, though most of them have departed from
the immediate area.
I'm going to be careful not to step on them, but yeah, you can see the grass is just sort
of popping and mongling around.
There's all these little baby grasshoppers.
And these are an anomaly, because A, I've never seen them here before, and B, had I
not wanted to come over to show you this very particular organism that I do not know what
it is, but I find it quite fascinating.
This guy right here, I have a wonderful photograph of one of these.
I have no idea what it is.
I mean, and by that I mean, because I sort of have some vague idea of what all this stuff
is, like living beings, and I understand the categories of plant, insect, animal.
But what I am saying when I say I don't know what this is, is that I don't understand
what we call it, which has nothing to do with what it is.
Right?
Or very little, anyway.
But it's just an incredible thing.
I mean, it's an incredible organism.
And had I not wanted to show you that, I wouldn't have discovered that this area is fraught
with little jumping baby, well, with little grasshopper nymphs or locust nymphs.
I've actually never seen locust nymphs in here at all.
I think a couple of times I've seen locusts.
So yeah, I was sitting and I was having a really incredible itch right here.
And I don't know if you've ever tried to not scratch an itch that really just keeps itching
harder the more you don't scratch it, though you might have had some other experience like
maybe you've quit smoking or you've been chased when you were previously habitually
not having regular orgasms with or without others.
Or maybe you were an alcoholic and you stopped drinking or maybe you were a heroin addict
or addicted to weed or addicted to eating food and then you just stopped and you could
feel that sort of very powerful, gravitic pull behaviorally toward a habitual source
of relief or displacement.
And when we're sitting zazen, there are some guidelines.
And one of them is don't get up, finish sitting the period and don't pay attention to little
things like itches or pain or you can pay attention to them, but don't react to them.
And I continue to focus on, return your awareness to your breath, return your awareness to the
co-on if you're sitting with a co-on and so on.
And so I sat there and the itch became worse and worse and I continued to follow my breathing
and pay attention to the co-on.
And I successfully avoided scratching the itch and as it almost always does, by the
time I was done with the session, the little period, the itch was gone, the anomaly had
disappeared.
Now I've occasionally had a little itch right here lately and I don't know why.
It's a mystery.
But of course, when I got up, soon after bowing and sort of finishing sitting, I rubbed my
eyebrow and it felt really good even though the itch had long departed.
And was there anything there or was it some peculiar form of nothing?
Was it something particular?
What was it?
What am I?
What is this?
What's going on around here?
Who's going on around here?
Why is all this beautiful, exquisite nature going on and why are there humans building
all kinds of really bizarre machines and boxes and shit instead?
I mean, that stuff is ugly as fuck.
No, it's much uglier than fuck.
It's just wrong somehow to me.
But my point really is more about mystery because what's actually going on around here
is fundamentally mysterious.
And I mean the sort of punny version of that word where we focus on the damentally.
And even the fun.
Fun damentally, mysterious.
Last night when I came home, I turned on my computer which has an LCD screen.
It's very advanced even though it's now a number of years old.
And I could see crawling around on my computer a very, very tiny insect.
And I realized from the shape of the insect, being someone who's fascinated by insects,
it was either some form of mite or it was a very tiny, extremely tiny tick larva.
So I didn't want it to get away.
It was just so funny.
I did not wish it to receive a path and not wish it to get away.
I'm just scooping around.
So I tried to conceive of a method.
It could move relatively quickly for such a tiny thing.
And when I say tiny, what I mean is perhaps a quarter of the size of a flathead pin that
we might use in sewing to hold fabric together prior to it being hemmed.
So I'm just going to take a little bit of the fabric and I'm just going to take a little bit
of the fabric and I'm just going to take a little bit of the fabric and I'm just going
to take a little bit of the fabric.
I'm going slow so that the robin doesn't have to fly away in order to avoid me.
Because we're kind of taking a little walk together.
So I tried to come up with a method whereby I could reliably obtain this creature, capture
it, and I know of a variety of methods.
But I decided to settle on using a sheet of paper in an attempt to cause it to fall onto
the sheet of paper off of the monitor.
It was at that point that I realized that this very tiny and relatively troubling anomaly
wasn't on the surface of the monitor.
But was somehow between the display and the glass surface that separates the display inside
the case from the surface of the glass.
And that caused me to wonder if perhaps what I was seeing wasn't an organism at all, but
was instead a piece of code that I was seeing.
Was I possibly seeing code, a virus or a piece of malware or a little program that was intended
to deceive me into believing there was an insect on my computer?
And then it took a shit, a very, very tiny shit because if you can imagine how incredibly
minute that poop was, but I saw it happen.
I have various magnifying glasses and loops and little hand-held microscopes and so on.
I couldn't get it under the microscope, which would have been cool, but I did get a good
look at it with the magnifying glass, a number of them, and it was quite clear to me that
I was looking at an actual organism, not, in fact, an algorithm.
Some people, perhaps Richard Dawkins and other people, similar to him, will suggest that
organisms and algorithms are a very similar phenomenon, and I will suggest that they are
catastrophically mistaken.
For a number of reasons, not the least of which being that, sorry, I've got some, from
my little traipsing in the grass, I've acquired some hitchhikers, in this case, seeds that
are poking my ankle.
This one really doesn't want to come out.
I may have to bear with it, and you with me.
So there was another anomaly, and a rather troubling one because I wanted to know where
does, how is it, first of all, mites are apparently not visible from the naked eye, which means
that everything, as far as I could tell, everything that looks like a mite is probably a tick.
And I wondered why, at all kinds of questions, why would a baby tick be inside my computer?
Are there ticks in my house, you know, all these kinds of questions, right?
But there wasn't anything I could do about the tick, and I wanted to be careful not to
squash it, because otherwise it would become a permanent fixture on my monitor.
And one of the bizarre, one of the queer, not in the sense that's usually used sexually,
but in the sense of peculiar, one of the queer aspects of my persona is that I'm something
of a perfectionist, and this is part of why I ended up becoming a technician.
It was because I was a little bit anal about ensuring my computers were functioning perfectly.
If only I had been as concerned about my intelligence or the physical health of my body, things
might have turned out very differently in my life.
But I became a technician, and for a long time I made a really good living at it.
These days, not so much.
Now, yesterday I was on a phone call, and yes, I am going somewhere, however, circuitous
my route.
I think in British English they say route.
I wonder if those might be the plant that my friend Ryan was referring to as bachelor's
buttons.
I'm not sure.
There's a lot of hummingbirds here, and I love them.
They're amazing.
I also love bats and martens, and I kind of think of martens as the bats of the daytime
and swallows because they're similarly acrobatic, and it just occurs to me for the first time
in my life just now that perhaps bat is short for acrobat, because if you've ever watched
bats closely in flight, you'll be aware that their capacity for incredible, oh, there's
a marten, for incredible feats of aerial acrobatics with unimaginable precision is profound.
I'm at the frog pond hoping to hear some plops, the plops of frogs attempting to evade
me and hearing my steps on the little wooden bridge.
So far no evidence.
This is parrotweed, apparently, a common supposedly invasive form of vegetation that is often
the result of having someone emptying an aquarium into a pond.
This parrotweed has been here for a very long time and is sometimes cleared out and almost
always grows back.
No plops today.
I am sure there are frogs there, though.
That's the main pool in which there are frogs in the park.
There were a couple of other anomalies yesterday.
I was on the phone with a friend painting an analogy that I call the genji lamp, which
is a toy I learned when something that I think of as an angel was teaching me long ago
for a number of months.
One of the most ecstatic, perhaps the most ecstatic, time and experience of my life,
and an extremely anomalous one.
And there were a number of very significant anomalies that happened that led up to that
experience, anomalies that occurred in the pre-penumbra, in the pre-dawn light of this
really profound mystery.
But yesterday I saw a beetle during this phone call walking quickly along the ground
and it was dragging something behind it that at first glance I thought might be its own
guts.
I thought, I've seen things like this before where a creature is badly injured and it's
dragging its own entrails after itself.
So I took a few photos of that for later.
I'd love to be able to emulate the sounds of birds.
Wow.
Such a powerful sound.
I got lucky there.
Here's the yellow jacket nest I inadvertently stood right on top of the other day.
Turned out what the beetle was dragging along behind itself wasn't its entrails, thankfully.
And this is, though I'm meandering, you're going to find an interesting thread if you
show my trail here.
It was dragging its own molt.
So insects have exoskeletons and many of them molt and when they do so they often are very
vulnerable for a short period of time, hopefully short, although sometimes as long as 24 to
24 hours they're still and they break out of their skeleton, their external skeleton
and then you'll see the molt, for example, of the Mayfly or Damselfly larva or Dragonfly
or you'll see the chrysalis of a caterpillar or you'll see the fluffy cocoon of a moth.
They, you know, you'll see the shed skin of a snake or perhaps a lizard.
So what the beetle was dragging, the beetle was fine.
It had molted and actually I could tell it was really healthy when I looked at it.
So even though I was concerned that it might be dragging its own entrails around, it seemed
pretty unlikely because the thing just looked extremely vital to me.
And I determined later that what it was dragging around was its molt and that the molt hadn't
fully separated from the end of its abdomen, which of course it will do in time.
However, the beetle is a little more vulnerable dragging its molt around with it.
And one of the great mysteries of humanity is that it is my perspective and my experience
that we also undergo something like molt phases.
There are a number of life phases for the human being.
We each undergo them.
There might be multiple ways to molt as human beings, but most of them are internal even though
we recognize the difference between an infant, a child, a teenager, a young adult, an adult,
a middle-aged person, a person achieving old age, and a very elderly person.
But I think there is another aspect to our humanity and perhaps to other living beings,
an interior aspect that also undergoes molting, and this is a great mystery.
This is an incredible mystery.
But that wasn't enough yesterday because moments after photographing the beetle, a coyote came down
the hill and walked directly toward me as though it was going to walk right up to me.
I'm just standing there watching it and I'm thinking, is this coyote actually going to walk directly up to me?
And I guess maybe, I mean, you know, reasonable ways away from me, but for a while I was starting to get a little confused
because I thought it's not likely that coyotes are going to just walk right up to me in daylight.
And I know the coyote was coming down from its den because I was up on the side of the mountain
where I know there are coyote dens.
And coyotes would certainly, I think, prefer to be creatures that are associated with a pack
rather than lone urban coyotes, but I think have a bit of a harder time.
Packs can distribute risk and opportunity among the members in ways much like my hand has a number of fingers, right?
This would not be as useful if it were just a club, right? A one appendage.
So the coyote approached me and I'm fascinated by coyotes and I was looking right at it and I was standing very still
and then eventually it noticed me and sort of veered off and, you know, ran up the hill.
And that wasn't incredibly mysterious because I know that there are coyotes here and yet it's very uncommon
that one essentially, like, looks at me, looks directly at me and is walking directly toward me.
It was a small animal. I wasn't afraid of it.
But I was curious and I was fascinated and I love coyotes so I love to see them. I was happy. I was pleased.
Now, I've been fascinated by anomalies since I was a little child and I realized very quickly that
the stories that the adults told themselves about the world and organisms and life on Earth
and the mysteries of dreaming and waking and consciousness were quite confused.
And in many cases based on ideas that were senseless or overtly wrong.
So, for example, they thought that all dreams were just dreams, not true.
They thought that insects were disposable pests that should be exterminated, extremely untrue,
unless you think the organs of your own body should be exterminated.
They thought that to find life from space you'd have to go to other planets untrue.
All the Earth here is life from space.
This is a planet absolutely teeming with space life because there isn't anywhere else for life to come from.
So if you're interested at all in life in space, you should be very, very interested in terrestrial life
because all of it comes from space.
Earth is a planet in space. All this stuff, these are what the humans want to think,
aren't aliens, but they are.
And particularly the insects and animals and anciently evolved intelligences
from which we derive our own humanity and upon which we thrive on the backs of whom
we've risen to what appears to be a kind of dominance but is very conflicted
and there's another mystery there.
Why would the dominant animal, if there is a dominant animal?
And by dominant we mean certain things, I mean certain things, I mean.
One who has the capacity to both shape and to shape nature to its own ends
and to control it and examine it and rationally understand aspects of its activity
and organismal nature and origin, biology, all these things.
So from a very young age I realized the adults were quite confused
but I also felt many strange longings and urges
for which I found no answer or correlate in human culture.
I still do.
And so I became a student of living beings
and I knelt before the ant, I knelt before the paramecium, the amoeba, the protozoa,
the snail, the slug, the frog the toad, the lizard the snake, the blue jay, the bee, the wasp,
the beetle, the sow bug, the caterpillar, the butterfly, the dragonfly, the moth.
And when I say I knelt, what I mean is I looked up to them instead of overlooking them.
I developed the intention to understand life rather than to overstand it.
And however imperfectly I practiced that intention,
thoroughly encouraged and punished by the culture and people around me for doing so,
encouraged by their ignorance and punished by their strange desire for conformity,
I continued to pay very close attention to anomalies.
And as a very young man, I read books like Future Shock, Chariots of the Gods.
There was an author named Colby who worked for the military, who wrote lots of books in the library.
And I was fascinated by technology and the possibility of a technological utopia,
which was a common fairy tale when I was a youth.
And I was fascinated by automobiles and jets and missiles and rockets and spaceflight and science fiction and bombs and...
the human technological imperative seemed to me a stairway to utopia.
So you can imagine how confused I was when at last it finally dawned on me that I had that backwards.
And I think it was around the time that I started really studying computers that I began to realize,
like I think we got something wrong going on here, but I'll return to that.
Though I'll mention in case I don't that what I immediately realized was that organisms outperform computers
in ways we are ill-equipped to completely penetrate and probably will remain that way forever.
Maybe I'm just singing the song of my hope.
In any case, when I was little, it was as if I had come to human life from another age.
From an ancient age in which things like butter knives and forks and zippers and hams
and shoes and televisions and telephones and wristwatches and automobiles and guns
and latches and screws and drills and all these things were impossible
because I could not make any of those things.
I couldn't make the simplest thing in our home.
I couldn't make a button.
So where, I wondered, did all these things come from?
And of course back then I didn't even know where meat came from.
Or really what it was. We just ate it.
It tasted good.
I remember when my mom tried to explain to me where meat came from, I thoroughly did not believe her.
I had to go to the butcher, right?
Snuck away from my mom at the grocery store.
Went to the butcher who was kind of my friend, right?
He would give me a hot dog, a cold hot dog every time we saw him.
And he liked my mom.
My mom was very beautiful.
Lots of guys liked her.
And I didn't know what that was about.
I just thought like people were friendly.
I didn't realize the guys weren't just being friendly.
They really liked my mom.
So I went to the grocery store and I asked the butcher about what my mother had told me.
I asked the butcher where the meat came from.
And the reason I didn't believe my mom wasn't because she was habitually lying to me.
But sometimes she would sort of play with me, right?
I remember when she told me that Y-O-U spells you.
Same problem I thought like you're just making that shit up.
That's not possible.
You adults are crazy in the head about language.
And what I heard was Y-O as you know in the Shakespearean O, right?
Y-O-U.
Like I heard a question in the spelling of a word.
Y-O-U.
So I couldn't believe her.
And there was an anomaly.
The butcher told me where the meat came from.
And I was inconsolable.
But I was also addicted already.
Not just to meat, but to the ceremonial ritual of dining with my family.
Something I then could not abstract from experience because it was so embedded that I couldn't take it apart, right?
And say this is this or that.
But when I was little, I thought there was actually some other species of humans that made the things.
Because you can't make a wristwatch.
There was one of those flashes. Did you see it?
You can't make a wristwatch.
I mean, yes, of course today you can buy all the components because they've been manufactured.
But what I mean is it would be extremely difficult to manufacture all those components by hand.
And like a zipper is unimaginably sophisticated and incredibly functional thing.
It just doesn't, it didn't make any sense.
When I was little, it was as if I had come from another age where I still had the memory that these things all around us that we take for granted.
I mean, television? Are you fucking kidding me?
Like, that just doesn't make any sense at all.
How the fuck do you encode signals and radio waves to become pictures somewhere else?
It's insane. I still don't understand it.
And I'm a technician. Like, I know how computers work in theory.
Whether I could assemble one myself, you know, I doubt I could build a hard drive or, you know, RAM chips or ROMs.
But I can code a bit.
So everything around me just seemed impossible.
And I thought, like, where are all the people who make all the things?
And I was a child, so I didn't know that there were factories and, you know, manufacturing plants and they sort of pieced out the functional aspects of producing the parts.
And then there were usually other places where the parts were assembled into holes and so on and so forth.
But this is entirely unlike nature, by the way. Nature does nothing like that.
I mean, unless we call the parts molecular chemistries, right?
In that case, then different plants and microorganisms and so on and insects and animals and so on and so forth.
We produce complex molecular chemistries and theirs are shared around and it makes shortcuts for everything.
And what you eventually discover is that all of life is like that seed in my sock. It's hitchhiking on each other.
And now you have something really interesting.
Once you notice this anomaly that everything's hitchhiking on each other, you can begin to wonder about the nature of your own consciousness.
And you can wonder, for example, and this is a very dangerous question, because it could lead you to a direct experience of some of the answers and there are more than one.
There's more than one answer.
Are our minds hitchhiking on something so astonishing that we have never conceived of it, even though we have myths about it?
And I'm not going to answer the question for you because that would be cheating.
And even in the answers I could present, there'd be not only a goodly quantity of mystery, they might be almost pure mystery.
I remember some time, a long time ago, when people who trusted my sleuthing abilities, which while not perfect aren't bad,
I remember
someone describing an extremely strange event that happened in their backyard at night with weird noises and things being thrown around and big shadows.
As someone who's been fascinated by anomalies my entire life, and particularly, I'm very, very curious, and I come from way before this was a cult.
Nowadays, it's sort of part of pop culture, but I was extremely curious about UFOs and the possibility of aliens because I had become convinced that my species wasn't actually intelligent.
And as a group, I maintain that bias.
And so what I was hoping was that it might someday be possible for me to meet another species that was actually intelligent.
Now, of course, I recognized that the hymenopterans and, you know, the dog packs and the dolphins and the whales and the octopuses and squid and cuttlefish
and all these creatures, the praying mantises, these are intelligent organisms.
Jumping spiders are curious about human beings, and you can't be curious about giant monsters unless you're intelligent.
In fact, curiosity about giant monsters like humans gets most things killed, so the fact that there's much of that at all in nature is very surprising.
And I think indicative of a mystery.
But back then, so I've studied anomalies and mysteries my entire life, I've been very interested in the things that don't fit expectations.
The outliers, the prodigals, the hermits, the strange ones, the forgotten ones, the outsiders, the real outsiders.
Not the people who put on the t-shirt, the actual stuff.
And that fascination paid off, but it continues to pay off.
Even though most of what I wonder, I still wonder, I just wonder more deeply and from a more informed perspective than I started out with.
But in any case, someone once asked me, and I've experienced relatively extreme anomalies on a number of occasions in my life.
I once saw what people refer to as a fireball, and that was one of the most terrifying and astonishing things ever.
Terrifying because first, at two o'clock in the morning in Stockton, sometime in the early 1980s on a Saturday night,
everything lit up ten times brighter than daylight, and I felt heat on the back of my neck.
And back then, the most reasonable supposition for the cause of such a situation was that a nuclear warhead had gone off.
My friend Ray Latham on the other side of the tree began swearing, inveterately,
and he was looking in the direction from which the phenomenon was affecting us.
And I didn't want to turn around and see a mushroom cloud or something, or just blinding white light.
So I waited, I don't know, what seemed like a long time, I was expecting to die.
I didn't need to see what was going to kill me, I was just like, okay, we're done, it's over, I don't need to know.
But when I finally did turn around, what Ray was observing was a slowly descending ball about the size of a full moon
that seemed partly transparent, light blue, with flames slowly flickering around it in a penumbra, mostly on the top,
slowly, slowly descending with slowly flickering flames.
Not a meteorite, nothing like any phenomenon I've ever seen.
And it was so damn bright that everybody for 50 miles should have been like, holy shh, you know, should have been calling the news stations.
We couldn't find a single person, even people who were out cruising on the avenue at the same time of that night, no one knew.
But four of us saw it together, and we don't know what it was.
It was a fireball, we have a word.
But in any case, someone once asked me a complex question, you know, what do you think they gave me the description of a situation in their backyard late at night?
And I actually had the presence of mind to ask them, did it ever occur to you that some things are inherently mysterious,
and that it might be in some cases wise to just stay with the mystery of the experience or the event and not try to disambiguate it,
not subject it to the courtroom of the category machine, the knives that cut phenomenon into categories so familiar to the grasping hand of the waking mind.
It wants to know what things are and it suspects those identities are inherent in the things rather than its activity.
And I tell you, my friend, if I may call you that, that this is a mistake, this is largely backwards.
It is the activity of the mind that distinguishes, that disambiguates from a cloud-like essential nature in the domain of identity that distinguishes and separates and isolates and categorizes and says what the thing is.
And then once we think we know the what, we can then like collect or dismiss or commodify or negate or excuse or explain or diagram, and we produce a bunch of representational behavior therefrom.
Now, it's not too hard to understand why we want to do something like that, what the utility of it, the pragmatism of it is.
I'm so happy when I'm not in a box staring at a screen, even though I'm staring at a box with a screen in my hand, I'm not in a box staring at a screen.
But it's okay because I'm, you know, we're sharing.
From one perspective, all these life forms are evidence of a great mystery.
My eyes and the capacity to speak, language itself, our entire array of knowledge, the high-pitched chirp of the hummingbird, the unheard noise of infrasound,
the scent of the Brugamencia, the Tura.
I mean, if this doesn't look like space life, nothing does.
All of these are mysteries.
But I've spent my life chasing anomalies, and I'm fascinated by the sciences, perhaps of all of them, biology, microbiology, molecular biology, immunology, neuroscience.
To a lesser degree, chemistry, physics and mathematics, all these things fascinate me.
And I have some familiarity with each of them, although, unfortunately, I never, being self-educated after the age of about 11 or 12,
I never became properly, you know, trained in mathematics, though I made a couple of attempts here and there.
One of which was interrupted by a siren, a young Norwegian woman who declared her insane passion for me and ended my second attempt at mathematical training with my fascination for her.
Of course, I blame her. I made the choice.
But my point is, I didn't pursue math far enough to get to calculus and beyond, which I really needed to do if I were to understand some of the deeper questions in physics,
though I'm capable of approaching many of the questions without having to formalize them explicitly.
But if I had a little wish, a small one, I might wish to be educated enough to understand, at least as clearly as the author, his book, The Road to Reality.
By Roger Sir Roger Penrose.
The sciences fascinate me. Our supercultures and corporations use them to very dangerous and lethal effect.
I hold in my hand at the moment more computing power than probably existed on Earth in 1964. What do we do with this? Incredible endowment.
We use it to be surveilled by corporations for what primary purpose is, too.
The ostensible purpose is advertising. Almost dropped my camera. It's very uncommon that I do that. I called it my camera, too, which is not very common, except I was nervous.
The other purposes are far more nefarious. The purposes of psychography that underlie the capacity to directly control our thought, metabolism, biology, social relationships, intelligence, capacities for nation-making, and so on.
But I remain a student of anomalies. I look for that tiny little feature that hides a hint so often overlooked that it distorted the course of what otherwise might have been prodigious discovery.
Or, perhaps even more profoundly, contact with non-human intelligence.
Now, the ancient peoples had protocols for this, and some very few of those protocols continue to exist today. However, the scientists believe those protocols to be superstitions. How unfortunate for them.
They've overlooked something fundamental about the nature of being itself, the nature of consciousness, the nature of intelligence, and, in fact, the origins of their own disciplines.
They've overlooked communion, unity. They've overlooked the idea that everything is hitchhiking. Everything. And it's not the only metaphor, but it's an awfully fucking good analogy of what's going on.
The remora hitchhikes on the shark, our complex consciousness hitchhikes on the metabolic activity of 40 trillion microbes, the cells that compose our bodies.
One might even imagine that bacteria assembled animals the way humans assemble spacecraft to travel together in super colonies and to develop senses and orders of sensing that were so astonishing compared to what the bacteria had by themselves that they might as well comprise science fiction.
And when I look at this, or this, or this, and these, or this, or even this stuff, I am aware that we might be the accomplished science fiction of our own microbiota. Anomalies are fascinating to me, and they always will be.
But it's also useful rather than chasing an answer to preserve the mystery because there's something fundamentally mysterious about the nature of communion in and as nature.
And when you throw that mystery away, the remnant is deceptive of scientists. So keep the mystery, keep it close to tan, revere it, get to know it, make friends.
My favorite answers are not conclusions. They are reframings of the question I adore that I am chasing through time space in my life and dreaming in my heart and thought in my art and writing in my reverence and adoration in my passion.
The great mystery of being, in which we may participate in ways both unimagined and surprising.
In ways that relieve us of our cynicism and certitude, our overstanding of knowledge.
Whether or not the stories in Genesis emerge from the fact of a divine intelligence within and surrounding and perhaps beyond nature and thought, the idea that knowledge is deadly, pay attention to that hint.
It won't kill you outright. Just as the snake, well, the serpent, it's a much more complex idea. Was there a flash there? Just as the serpent implied, it won't kill you outright.
The serpent was very lawyerly in its interview with the primordial feminine. It won't kill you outright.
But if you're not careful, your soul can suffocate in its armor. So be careful. Make a place for reverence, for adoration, for wonder, for awe, for mystery, for revelation.
And know this. The humans, for all the hubris of our species, what we actually understand, is mostly wrong. Not in the sense of being incorrect within its own axiomatic system.
Within its own axiomatic system, it's correct. That's no great feat. In the sense of representing insight, like the little flashes that happen in my smartphone, when that circuit I know nothing of shorts out briefly under pressure.
Bye bye for now.
