Hello, everybody. Welcome. It's been quite some time since I've made a recording.
Many complex issues have arisen. And although I've been learning and thinking, wondering,
I haven't really felt ready to speak for some time. But that's not why I'm here today. I'm
out on a night walk and it's been raining here. And that's been wonderful and very soothing,
nurturing, and healing. I'm extremely fond of the rain. I love water. I like being in it,
around it. Living water is probably one of the most profound and precious situations in all of
time space. If you pointed your finger into the sky and followed it 100 light years,
it'd be very unlikely to encounter anything like we have here. Of course, that's because you're
drawing a straight line, right? If we turn that line into a disc, it's more likely that we might
encounter liquid water. And if we turn it into a sphere, it's much more likely. This is an important
idea. Most of our thinking is linear and point-like. But the nature of that which is whatever we want
to call it, we often use the word reality, but this word is value laden.
So often we will take a linear measurement of something like, for example, people,
what people are, what they're doing, how they're thinking. And usually when we take a linear
measurement, we draw a line from where we are to whatever fulfills our purpose in thinking about
people. So if we're trying to think about what's wrong with people in general, which is a pretty
weird idea since we have no experience of people in general. We can generalize, but we have no
experience of this. There are no general situations. Generalization is a probabilistic
mode of thought. But if we're trying to find out what people are doing wrong, then we will see
only what people are doing wrong. We will take the worst common denominator from the graph
and usually forget the rest of the graph. Or if we're trying to see what's beautiful
about people, something similar may occur. Though in the latter example,
we might be being more intelligent.
Our language makes clumsy use of generalizations. And I think one of the primary problems there
is that all situations are specific. We don't actually have the capacity to pull back
and see what a generalist would see because we cannot actually contact general situations.
We can't participate in them directly. Obviously we indirectly participate. The lottery is one
example of this, where a pool is formed. There's some very modest degree of participation in that
pool, the purchase of a ticket or more. Probabilities are at play, we imagine, and somebody wins.
Or many people win if it's that kind of lottery. Some selection of the cohort gets money back.
Now, my point, however, was that in thinking, if we think in a point-like way, we will think
that things have a single property. They're one-valued.
And we can see that that's not true in our experience. Money, for example, is a generalization
of value. Or actually, fundamentally, what is value? Value is relation. Value is relationships.
So it's a representation of relational integrity that falsifies relational integrity.
Most representations, or many of them, falsify that which they're representing.
For the sake of convenience and commodification, making money, or power, or
how shall I put this? Relationships that are based on hierarchy and trading of power or value
rather than mutual excellence, mutual benefit, so on.
Many of our primary class words in our category lexicon, words like food,
dream, friend, enemy, machine, computing, these words are generalizations over an entire class
of complexly distinguishable phenomenon and situations.
Surely, we can see that there's a continuum of food from will kill you outright to
ecstatically delicious and healthy. And so when we speak of food that gets disposed of,
we're using a generalized term for an entire class of reference.
Similarly with dream, there are many different kinds of dreams. Similarly with friend, many kinds of friends.
A part of the reason that I'm talking about generalization, well, actually,
it was really from the geometric perspective of if you draw a line straight up in the sky,
you might go a hundred thousand light years and not find liquid water or something resembling a
stable organismal environment, though you also might. But if you make that a disk,
now the whole scene has changed, you have a plane in time space that you're examining,
and if you make that a sphere, radically increased the area explored or evaluated, so to speak.
So one of the reasons I'm interested in this generalization problem, and it really is a problem
for us, most of our generalizations are clumsy and they make us dumber when we use them.
Often because we use them, it's common for people to use them.
Critically, we want to say something about the Republicans or the Democrats or the Muslims
or the Christians or, you know, the Buddhists or the Hindus or China or, you see, all of these
are catastrophic generalizations that capture very little of what they encompass and they exclude
everything that doesn't match our purpose. So if we want to say there's something bad about China,
and we want to point out one bad thing, let's say there are 12,000 vessel fishing fleet,
then we confuse the finding of a single property with something that arises
from the whole, from the referent China, and so we may think that, and this is very clumsy thinking,
or rather it's mostly just delusion, we may have the delusion that China matches the quality in the
one thing we chose to look at and in the way that we interpreted it. So this is part of the weird
problem of thinking in categories and language. It's also a fundamental problem with knowledge
itself, and here's where things get very interesting. It turns out that what we refer to as knowledge
is the dead remains the sort of fossilized record of previously experienced insights, learning,
awareness, understanding, success at tasks, and so on. And so knowledge fundamentally in this way
is dead except at the very leading edge where insight is occurring. And certain forms of insight
have a quality that knowledge cannot convey, it cannot contain. It's a living quality.
A good example is that the other day during a conversation
with a friend in Portugal, whose name is Luca, very amazing mind by the way,
something flew into the backyard where I was wandering, you know, circling around while we
were talking, and it was a large for its class creature. I realized fairly quickly that it
couldn't be a bird that was almost the size of a hummingbird. And then of course I walked down the
tree of identity from something to a flying creature, to not a bird, to insect, to beetle.
And it was a fascinating creature almost the size of a peach pit, bright, iridescent turquoise,
even in the limited sunlight of a cloudy day. And it flew around the backyard for like four
minutes and I've never seen anything like it in my life in person. And I'm fascinated with insects
and so on. So I was paying close attention. And my sense of wonder and awe and even fear
and fascination and curiosity, all of these things came to life within me in direct relation
with a living creature that was new to me, even though I have tokens for the class we put it in.
Now one thing that's important to understand is that the classes of English are relatively clinical
in the sense that they are tree like structures related to form and how to put this, I'm struggling
a little bit here. They are clinical in that they are the results of study rather than relation.
So study is when you stand back and look at a phenomenon abstractly. And so our classes
and categories and all of their sub-members, all of the members they contain, have arisen mostly
from an abstract clinical perspective, a perspective of study, which groups things by form and function
as we have chosen to interpret them is the caveat there.
Whereas the classes and categories of ancient peoples, certainly 10, 15,000 years ago,
come primarily from a relation and may have nothing to do with form. For example,
a white cockatoo and the sun can be in the same class word, but a black cockatoo has no relationship
with that. This is an actual example probably from Ernst Casaray, his work. So the ancient
categories had relational vectors or hooks that we could connect with in a way that participates
rather than in a way that stands outside the phenomenon, evaluating it abstractly, clinically,
or functionally. And so it seems to me that our lexicons and our category library
is badly broken, primarily due to abstraction. Now I saw the living beetle and it was alive,
and I was alive and we were together and there was wonder and mutual awareness and so on.
And that's like insight. And I was very curious about this creature and wanted to learn more about
it, but I couldn't get a clear solid glimpse of it while it was in flight. This is the crucial thing.
It is alive, it is flying, and it didn't land for me to record its form with a photograph.
Some days later, I was surprised to come across the carcass of one of these creatures.
It may be in this season many insects die.
Often their lifespan is four to seven months for certain insects, possibly like this creature,
and certainly the praying mantis. In this moon cycle, the praying mantises are pregnant.
So mating has already occurred, and soon they will lay egg cases called uthika,
which are foamy and will harden. They look a little bit like footballs on the undersides
of branches or fence posts, generally in a shaded protected area.
Now, encountering the living beetle was like insight. It's participated relation in time
space. Encountering the dead beetle is like knowledge. Now I have the form, I have the structure,
but there's no life in it. I can determine its species and phylum and genera and so on
in the Linnaean biological catalog.
But that doesn't actually give me any information about the organism other than structural.
Now a biologist would have more information about the organism,
but most of that information would also be clinical. It would not be participated.
When is it born? What does it eat? What are its enemies? Does it prey on other creatures?
How does it mate? When does it mate? Where does it lay eggs? These kinds of functional things.
Now what I want to propose to you is that our form of knowledge is dead inside.
It's not actually knowledge. It's lexical reference primarily.
Now you could argue against this and say, we know enough about the workings of cells
to influence them, to promote them, to kill them off under certain conditions.
Cancer cells for example, or perhaps we know enough about the mechanisms of viruses to interfere
with their function in the body, but there's always a cost when we're doing anything to the body.
And generally there's a cost to any action because there are always repercussions
and only a very small portion of those can be predicted or understood beforehand.
So in a way we come back to the primary problem in human cognition
that is introduced in the peculiar and far too brief story of Genesis at the tree of knowledge.
Apparently there were two important trees, though they could have been the same tree.
Hmm. That's a more complex conjecture. We'll pretend that there are two trees, the tree of
knowledge and the tree of life. Purportedly God speaks to Adam. I think this is prior to the
emergence of Eve and says, of all the trees in the garden you may freely eat, but do not eat of
the tree of knowledge for that is death. Then later, after a woman is born from a man's rib,
and in case this seems like an impossible miracle, if we merely imagine that the earth is female,
then we will understand that one of the orbital orders around the sun congealed, we think,
into a planet named earth on which billions of life forms and minds and souls and so on would
emerge. So this isn't to say that we should think of Adam as the sun explicitly, but rather
metaphorically there is a meaningful way to get a being that we might associate with motherhood
from the rib of a star that we might associate with fatherhood. Now, of course, the sun has
feminine aspects, specifically if we think of the word gravity. This comes from the
probably Latin or Greek term, gravity, which means literally filled with eggs.
So these associations in gender are ancient and profound. It's not that one of them has
authoritative knowledge, but rather they form, you know, if we're looking linearly or in a
point-like fashion, we'll try to find the one that is right, but there is no one that is right
in that sense. And this is another common problem in human cognition. We think we know what's correct,
and obviously in a limited scope of concern, it is correct that turning the faucet handle
clockwise will open the flow. But we've sort of generalized mechanical correctness to ideological
correctness so that we think because there are things that in a limited scope are mechanically
correct, there must be ideas that are formally correct. The problem is that their correctness
always depends on axioms assumptions. My point, however, was that the knowledge game of associating
qualities with gender is important to the nature of our intelligence,
as well as being mechanically true in large selections of organismal behavior, phenomenon,
form, so on. So you can see, though, that the structured knowledge is phony. It's not relational.
By the way, that word phony comes from the strange modulations of people's voices
when we began to use telephones that we heard for the first time, where
some of the vocal music was either not captured and transmitted, or it was distorted.
And we still have this problem in our time. Our phones still distort our voices. And, for example,
it can be difficult to hear certain continental sounds in an electronic communication
that would be immediately clear if we were face to face.
So back to the Tree of Knowledge. Eve arose and went to the tree, and there we are told she met a serpent,
which we usually visualize as a snake. And it's not that it's not a snake,
but it's certainly not merely a snake, and is probably something we moderns don't have a word for.
Most likely, it's a divine being, a non-ordinary being. And the being says to Eve, well,
you know, you won't actually die, and the fruit is good to eat, and will make you see.
It will give insight, is the promise. And Eve eats of the fruit of knowledge,
and we are told later that it is the knowledge of good and evil. And at that point, but not before,
an angel is placed at the Tree of Life, which spins a sword in every direction
to guard it so that the humans don't get access to it.
Apparently before eating of the Tree of Knowledge, hello.
Apparently before eating of the Tree of Knowledge, the Tree of Life was accessible and not a problem.
But after we have knowledge, it's a problem. The humans have to be sort of evicted in some way.
And we might imagine this is an interior process. My point, however, is that knowledge is false.
And if knowledge is false, what then is true? Even the knowledge about the
faucet handle is false. It's false for many reasons. It's incomplete. It's catastrophically
incomplete in terms of what is going on, right? It's a very narrow perspective on
utilization, form, and function. And of course, we build faucet handles to do a specific thing.
So we think of them primarily in that light.
We also build knowledge to do specific things.
But all knowledge is false because we have been, in our interior, we are largely evicted
from the domain of insight. And this is a long and complex story that probably involves non-human
intelligences, with which our species had symbiotic relations earlier in the development
of our bodies and minds. And those non-ordinary, somehow we were evicted from those relationships
over time. And then we formed religions and such. And without those relationships,
our inner compass that points toward truth in being as our relation with origin,
the beginning of all things, the home of all beings, the true nature of all beings,
time, space, plants, and animals, and so on. We have been evicted from this into
a realm of abstractions, structured fictions, utilization narratives, value narratives,
and so on. And this is a form of death. If we would taste of the thing that knowledge
is a dead derivative of directly, we would never be interested in knowledge as we know it again.
Because the transcendental modes that collapse into categorical knowledge in humans
are alive, profound. They are beings. They are beings of some kind. Or, you know,
they are that from which the idea of a being descends. They are hyperstasis of the idea of being.
And similarly being is a hypostasis, a lesser stasis of whatever we're pointing at with this
concern. It's very difficult for humans to understand, but it's blatantly obvious
that there are,
we don't see this as the problem. I'm missing, there's a missing word in our lexicon,
and the only words we have that are like this much are gods, or angels, or demons, or devas, or jinn.
But it's clear that the sun generates lives and minds on earth as a side effect
of what it is being. And we could say also what it is doing. Now think about that. That's really
profound. There are, there's a category that we can refer to of processes that are more than merely
a being or an entity. These words don't give us any information, but there are processes
more than merely living processes that produce living beings naturally as a side effect of their
nature and activity. And if we call them gods, we pick up all the value laden problems of that word,
but essentially they are gods.
In the sense that they are not like individual organisms, individual or rather the relationship
is something more like
apple tree, semicolon apple, and then sun, for example, or sun earth in parentheses,
sun earth moon, etc., semicolon organisms. So we understand that the apple tree produces apples,
not a problem for us. It doesn't seem clear to humans that time space and the sun
produce organisms. They personate into beings.
And so our lexicons are missing many higher order reference that would lend participatory meaning
to the subcategories, which we are one of, right? We humans are one of these categories in
the lexical mass of English.
Stop for a moment and consider the idea that knowledge, as we experience it, is fundamentally
false because there's something so much better, more profound, alive, and that unifies the ways
of knowing every time it moves, so that a reference in this system would have features
that are musical, mechanical, atomic, quantum, mathematical, linguistic, participatory,
imagistic, geometric. They wouldn't be able to make a token in the higher order
communication of intelligence that applied to only one way of knowing the way that most of our
tokens do. And so this presents a strange opportunity. There are certain forms of generalization
that immediately produce insight. So generalization is catastrophic when used in a clumsy fashion
to take the worst common denominator of some phenomenon or the best common denominator
or the functional common denominator. That's all useful, right, in various ways, but specifically
it's clumsy when we do it clumsily, when we forget that our purpose is informing our selection of
criteria, so on. But there are generalizations that are filled with insight, like the generalization
of looking at the structure of the hand, noticing that the working members are useless without the
place they come together, the palm, the thinking member, which I'll call the thumb, is useless
without the palm and the other members and the body and so on. But the hand structure generalizes to
the body in the sense that, like the hand, the body can be understood to have four working members
each with three segments. And like the hand, the body has a unifying body, the torso. And like the
hand, we have a thinking member with two major segments, the head. So perhaps we are the hand
of something, and if so, where is the wrist? Well, the wrist is what connects us to origin,
and it's not physical for very important reasons. It would have more mass than the universe if it
were physical. So you can see there's a general, there's a generalization here that leads to insight
about form. Some people would say, oh, the hand is a fractal, but that concept is incomplete
in ways that are important to amend. In nature, the orders of structure in a fractal have meaningful
differentiations rather than merely structural differentiations.
So that if we say hand, semicolon, body, we can see that across the wrist, there are eyes.
There's a nose, there's a mouth, there's the skin surface, there's all kinds of senses
that the hand by itself, we would never guess they existed from looking at the hand.
So upscale in the not a fractal of the human body, you find properties that are radically
inconceivable if we had only a hand to look at. And it's probably similar with the next order of
being from the body to origin. So hand, colon, body, colon, origin, this relationship.
And what I'm proposing is that in direct relation with origin, we have naturally emergent
value systems for truth in being rather than truth in representational systems.
Logical systems, rational systems, mechanical systems, mathematical systems, linguistic systems.
And so it is a different mode of truth. And the mode that we're familiar with largely is
facetious. It's fallacious. It is true within the construct we developed
around it that makes it true structurally or functionally or so on.
So what does truth in being look like? And what is the intelligence I speak of?
The intelligence beyond human intelligence that ours is a strange derivative of, which is plagued
by the problems inherent in advanced representational cognition.
Well, truth in being
is similar to having a personal, deep, active, reliable relationship with a non-human intelligence,
one or more. And often this means God for humans. And this is the word that we use down here to
refer to that. But what I'd like you to understand is there are a plethora of intelligences and
orders of intelligence in time space. When we look and at the pinnacle, the source of those
intelligences, it's the thing that we made this word God to refer to, but the actual
referent doesn't have much in common with our derivations because it's not abstract.
And even if one is not particularly religious, one might say, I have no reason to believe in a
God that I cannot directly know and experience or prove the existence of. And by the way,
that's the way knowledge works, rational knowledge works like that. It excludes everything
hilariously in a cartoonish act of sublime idiocy. It excludes all that which hasn't been proven
or isn't provable, meaning that we want to test things. Forgetting, of course, that testing
is not the same thing as relating, right? In testing, we're going to take an academic
position outside the relationship, try to exclude our own influence and so on on the situation
and get go for reproducibility. And that's a filter of a very peculiar kind. It's a useful
filter. We wouldn't want to throw it away, but it's false to the nature of being.
Being isn't clinical that way. It's not abstract. And I would argue that our minds were born for
relations with vast, what Philip K. Dick would call, Vallas, a vast, active, living, intelligent
system. And notice that he put living in there, right? To distinguish between that and machines,
specifically. So I think our minds were born for relation with this and we're starving and dying
inside because we live in the time where accessing the transports to that relation within ourselves
is extremely difficult and fraught with peril.
So there's an epic history glowing behind my topic. It's the history of the development
of a human mind over eons, over hundreds of thousands of years.
And the place to which we've come in the modern moment, which is
plagued with
knowledge forms that are either extremely clumsy, openly deceptive,
contagiously pathological, and otherwise undesirable. And there's very little of the other thing.
But when we naturally feel concern for another being,
not in mere thought, but in our hearts, when we naturally feel concern over the plight or
situation of a being in trouble, and act in whatever way we can to be of help,
then we are remembering origin. That is an experience of the memory of the kind of truth
that is in relation, not thinking. We may also have thoughts about this,
but the fundamental situation is relational. We feel it before we think it. We think about it in hindsight.
The terrain here is very rich and deep, but I do have a sort of a plan here,
even though I'm wandering around it a little bit haphazardly.
If we think of the network of human minds as an environment,
I'll refer to that as the human cognizium. And we understand that in that environment,
there are physical and non-physical transports between minds.
And the combination of the minds and the transports is an environment in which a certain
organism-like process arises that I call thrips. And I've spoken of this many times in previous
videos, so if you want a deeper read on this, you can look for these words, right?
Now, the human cognizium is connected to all the cognizia in time space,
and particularly locally, it's connected to all the cognizia on earth.
The ashtray cognizium, the ladybug cognizium, the bee cognizium, the cats, the dogs, the fish,
the ocean, the coral, these are all one network. So when we say the human cognizium, we're taking
a slice out of that network to look at.
And thrips are ideas, models of identity, function, value, process, utility,
nature, and so on, qualities, all these things.
Logic is a family of thrips. Rationality is a family of thrips. Political systems,
religions, these are all thrips. All of the commercial processes and products are thrips.
These are processes that capture human mind's thought and behavior
in order to translate that into propagation, contagiousness, right? The thrips are competitive
in the mimula, and they want to dominate the transports of the mimula in this model.
And reproduce, and they fight against each other to some degree, but they can also synergize.
And not all of the thrips are bad. If a thrips is just an idea, there are certainly better ideas
than the ones we have at present. And yet, the fundamental nature of thrips is anti-life.
And if you're confused about how that could be true, you can just look at the,
we're going to make a generalization here. The behavior of the human species is fundamentally
omnicidal. It attacks everything. And one of the primary vectors of that attack is machinery
in this model. Now again, if all knowledge is wrong, this knowledge is wrong too,
but it might be less wrong. And I'm proposing that the knowledge that we rely on and believe to be
veritable is actually the wrong form. It's a bad form of knowledge. And again, this has complex
histories, but we as humans transmit this knowledge and the prevalent thrips to our children.
And they do not know this. In fact, nobody's thinking this way. So there's no
pushback from within the human cognizium. Or there's very little. Enlightenment traditions
and certain philosophical traditions have various kinds of awareness of these matters.
Because they've looked very deeply into the nature of being, being human, having a human mind,
and so on. And so some of the philosophical and enlightenment traditions can clearly see
that something similar to what I'm proposing is at play and that it's very dangerous,
fundamentally dangerous. Now looming in the background of this conversation
is the possibility of direct contact with the beings or meta beings, the transcendental beings
that our minds were born with. The contact that we lost that would light the compass of being
in a way so ecstatic and absolutely true that what we think of as knowledge would just drop
away as dross, kind of gross structure, unnecessary gross structure. And we would be able to navigate
in awareness, relation, consciousness, and thought in a trustworthy way that would produce
endless prodigy in the mind. Of course we humans are weak, given powerful intelligence,
you know, it's obvious to see why the Tree of Life, which might have been the contact point
for humans and the sky beings, so to speak, or the beings that dwell in the nature of time space,
had to be put off limits, had to be proscribed. Because once we have the dead form of knowledge,
we will simply build machines, and we'll build machines that build machines.
Once we are in the thrall of the dead form of knowledge, we are dangerous to the nature of
time space itself, because we can depart from that nature in a very particular way that makes
more dead structure. It's similar to the concept of cancer in the body.
In a sense, when God said, let us guard the Tree of Life from the humans,
God may have been saying something like, they will become cancer, they will eat everything for
dead purposes, what are dead purposes machines. Now, there's a particular thrisp that I was
concerned with at the beginning of my talk, though I've wandered far afield, and that's okay, not a
problem. And it's a thrisp that has plagued us, each of us in all kinds of ways throughout our
life. It's the idea of a normal person. It's the idea of normalcy. Now, what are the criteria
of this idea? And from whence do they arise? What do we get the criteria for normalcy?
It's a complex knot of a question. However, normalcy turns out for most humans to be dumbed
down, obedient to structured fictions, subjugated to structured fictions,
and self-subjugation to these systems on purpose. We want, if we're normalizing something,
well, now this word has ridiculous connotations in the current milieu, because we have a meme
around the word that says things like normalize indigenous rights.
In other words, make that part of the dominant structure.
That's not the way I'm using the word, but it's important to take a moment to acknowledge
this process, this thrisp network in modern human cognition.
But generally, as children, we are subjected to normalization protocols. And the great sin
of being human is to depart from the normalization protocols. And you can see that most of the
ideological movements, at least at the surface layers of human societies, are normalization
protocols. They're obedience protocols. They're domination protocols. They subjugate us.
You'll get a job. You'll wear clothes. You'll make money. You'll get a house. You'll get a car.
You'll obey the laws. You'll pay your taxes. You will probably die an unlived life.
But the reason that I'm concerned with this is that we also have in the modern milieu
a relatively new term, the term neurodivergent. And I prefer the term unusually minded.
Almost all of my friends are unusually minded. Most of them are not classically religious.
And a lot of them aren't particularly political. But they are in the world in a way that is
certainly, if we were evaluating it, would be considered abnormal. And some of them would be
diagnosed with various disorders. Weird idea that there could be a disorder. What does that mean?
Probably what it means is something like desynchronization and disharmony. But disharmony with
what? The superficial layers of society are blatantly, viciously insane. And pathological
and contagious and so on. So the fact that people have minds that don't fit in that
is not only natural and to be expected. It's crucial.
Many of the beings that we think of as heroic were simply beings who were otherly minded.
And they saw the problems with normalization and so on. But here's the actual problem.
No one isn't neurodivergent. We have the whole fiction backwards, and that's not surprising
given the purposes for which it's been deployed and which we continue to do these things and
deploy them culturally and sociologically. We have these ideas of what is normal.
So for example, in China, it's crucial to be a communist.
And in our country, it's natural to be a capitalist, for example. Now of course, no communist is
merely a communist. No capitalist is merely a capitalist. These are one-valued category terms
that are extremely deceptive because they don't really describe anything but their own structure.
They're not describing the people. They're describing a thrisp, right? This is the thing.
Essentially, these words point to cohorts infected with specific thrifts.
And we're born without them. We're born free of thrifts. We pick them up in
piecemeal fashion from language and culture and relation and society and commerce and so on.
But we're born without any, I would argue. And so it turns out that when you look carefully,
at each person, you find more uniqueness than you do normalcy. If there's even a standard for
normalcy that makes sense, right? Because the standard of obedient to social values,
mores, behaviors, the quote, accepted behaviors, unquote, what does that even say? It essentially
says slave. I've been enslaved. I'm voluntarily enslaved to normalcy. I wear the costume of
the natives on purpose all day every day. I rarely take it off. And even when I take it off, it's
still mostly on. And there's a place for that kind of behavior, but its dominance in our culture is
vicious. But we actually have our incredibly unique instances of humanity as persons and groups and
cohorts that are certainly abnormal by their very nature. We were born abnormal. We weren't born
infected with thrips, right? We shed our pants. We put the gun in our mouth. We, you know, whatever
it is we did as children to explore the universe, it's not normal. And a lot of that behavior gets
trained out of us purposefully and with punishment and reward over time. And that's cruel.
But if we were to actually realize the astonishing uniqueness of each human person
and recognize it, then normalcy would be seen as the disease. And what we call neurodivergence
would be seen as the context. That would be the context itself. And I, you know, when this,
when I started to realize the suffering, the vast waves of suffering that the societal impetus
toward normalization in all the ages of the city builders at least, but even before them have visited
upon human lives and hearts and families, it's a crushing and painful awareness.
You know, I used to think that in my own family, because of the stories I heard,
as you travel backward up the generational tree, people are more and more insane.
And of course, in the beginning, I just had a kind of a simple idea of what insanity was, right?
When I was young, I had a very simple idea.
And of course, sanity means cleanliness. And of course, cleanliness for organisms, mostly
when taken to anything other than the ordinary extreme means death, it means killing.
Cleanliness means not alive. The car is very clean. The dirt is dirty.
Organisms are unclean by nature.
So, it's been raining.
And I'm walking on the sidewalk in the darkness.
And unfortunately, I've accidentally crushed a couple of snails
where I couldn't see well, because there's too much water in the context for the snails,
mainly in the grasses and so on.
And so they are all traveling. And I adore them. I love them. I believe in them. I would trade
all the machines on earth for a single snail without hesitation.
The organisms here comprise the living link to the tree of life in the Bible, in my view.
And it's not a religious perspective. It's an experiential one.
This is my experience of what organisms are. It's not something I learned in a book or through
thinking. We moderns have simply forgotten this. It's cleverly hidden away by our primary
relationship with knowledge and category and lexical tags, names like snail.
Very few people will have the connotation for snail
of highly specialized link to the living library in the universe.
They will not have that connotation. They might think of them as a mollusk,
each plant's cute or undesirable.
Most of the organisms have the connotation
of little or no value compared to a human, which is bizarre since those organisms are our own
extended bodies. They are us. We are them. We are together here.
So in a conversation a couple of weeks ago, it suddenly became apparent to me,
see I think what happened was I was speaking with my son and he'd been watching a show called
Love on the Spectrum about autistic people dating and how deeply he related with their
experiences and their peculiar honesty in many cases, but also with some of the ways
they were deceived by their thinking.
And you know, autism, we call it a spectrum because there's no good single target.
What we're doing is we are gathering together
maps of features, qualities, common behaviors, likenesses in some cohort
and then producing a general term, autism, right? We're generalizing over the cohort there.
And thus we might be inclined to think we know what we're talking about because we have a word
for it. And this is another of the deepest problems in human cognition. We actually don't
know what anything is. So the fact that we have a word for something does not mean we know what
that is. It just means we have a tag for the pattern that it lights up in consciousness or in the
visual field or in a category tree, right? And so on. That's not knowledge. You see why this is dead?
The understanding that the snail represents a transport, not a transport, it's a being.
By relating with the snail as a being in an unusual way,
we, it naturally leads upscale to other cognizia. This is the thing. But we don't have this idea
in English. Very few people think anything like this. Some of the ancient people's spiritual
traditions preserve this, something resembling this, yeah, this idea. And this too is a thrisp.
So in childhood, what happens is we reassemble piecemeal from skeletal remains, knowledge
of previous generations. We learn their languages, their category trees, the connotation webs that
go with those category trees, their behaviors, what is expected of us, quote unquote, expected by who?
Well, not by a human. It's expected by other normalized humans, yes. But
is expected of us, the word expected points to an inspector
and an inspector, a surveyor, right? There's some kind of surveyor. And now we get into the problem
of the nature of identity in human consciousness. And that nature
is directly related to what I will refer to as authorization schemas.
Who expects us to be what, when, where, how?
Certainly the expectations in the shower alone in the morning
are still there, but they're different from the expectations in the supermarket or at my job at
the bank. And you can see that the supermarket is a normalization schema. So is the bank.
So are our political systems, our social systems, our religious systems. But none of the humans are
born normal. We're all uniquely neurodivergent and it's always been this way.
And so we suffer each of us uniquely in childhood, the jeers and taunts and punishments
that are meant to grind our uniqueness down to something so trivial, clumsy and tedious
that it's like a form of living death, especially for those of us who are differently minded in
a powerful way that isn't easily incapacitated thus.
And so I would argue that what we undergo in childhood is a series of circumcisions
of the relational organ that is our minds. And eventually it's so chopped up that it only connects
with ideas in some of us. And there are all kinds of problems that emerge. What I was getting at
when I talked about autism as being a continuum is that each of us is autistic. Are we formally
autistic? No. But most of the disorders in the DSM, we are a grab bag of degrees of these disorders.
If we take the whole sum of the DSM as a single thing, and this is a complex
postulate, but if we take the sum, we're really looking at the spectrum of what it means to be
human. Which person can we find that has no disorder? Where is the completely normal person?
By the way, there's a paradox here, because the most normal person in the cohort
turns out to be staggeringly unique, and uniqueness and normalcy don't go together.
The most normal person is very unique in that they stand out as the pinnacle of the concept.
But we've suffered terribly in our own lives and historically in our gene lines and in the history
of humans on earth. We've suffered this constant intrusion of relatively vicious normalization.
We need merely think back to conflicts on the playground in childhood and what took place
there, and how often what was going on was some kind of group bullying of a single member or
a small group of members who seemed different or weren't normal. And why should that invite punishment?
You can see here the function of thrips in a small group of human cognitives.
Bullying another group. There's the idea that you are other, you're being otherized,
and the other should be attacked. The other is a target, a righteous target for assault.
And even in the Bible, this is clear. Strangely, we have foundationally conflicting imperatives
in the Bible. On the one hand, we have love and communion and the recovery of our relationship
with origin. And on the other hand, we have catastrophic admonitions to basically kill
everything that moves and hate them and destroy them and tear them apart and so on.
So it's a very strange thing. It slices the universe into good and evil, which were apparently
the forms of knowledge or important ideas related to the kind of knowledge that was acquired,
quote, at the tree of knowledge, unquote. But any kind of bipolar value thinking like that
will tear the mind apart because essentially it comes down to
the bias will be toward evil and finding evil everywhere. And so soon everything is evil.
The whole universe is just a mass big mistake of evil mess.
Right. So I was thinking about this normalization problem and the history of it in a deep way.
And all of my friends, without exception almost, there are some who can thrive in a situation
like this, even though it's hideous and confusing and perilous. But most people at least over time
will succumb to injuries they've taken from normalization and end up as addicts or criminals
or slaves or, you know, very difficult, painful, horrible life paths that quickly become locked in
and very difficult to escape. But effectively, the goal is to enslave everybody. And whose
goal is it? Well, it's not the goal of a person. It's the goal of
well established ramified processes in the extended human cognizium. And these processes
act like gods, but their results is certainly much more demonic in the sense of being cruel,
negative, undesirable, painful, unnecessary, egregious, and so on.
It's easy to see that not just at present, but throughout history, we've had the,
we've faced an array of moral problems and ethical problems and faced them very poorly,
I must say. The difference between what the humans in general, and again, this is a weird
generalization, say, and what they do is extreme. Everyone proposes that they are the ally of the
good, remember the tree problem. But the good often involves obliterating, certainly involves
obliterating the environment, wholesale where possible, killing each other, torturing each
other, enslaving each other. And the situation with the thrips in the cognizium rewards those
who most efficiently enact their propagation agendas. So you see that the social systems are
wealth filters and quality of life filters that steal life from all living beings on earth,
and particularly from impoverished and the lower rungs of the wealth ladder.
We steal life from them. It's vampiric, right? It propagates value up the ladder toward individuals
and very small groups, just as if there were still kings.
By the way, the idea of a king was generally understood to be, even until relatively recently,
that this being is the local transport to the intelligences in the sky.
That's what a king was understood to be, generally speaking. This is why in part there are pyramids
in Egypt as the burial chambers for royalty. Those were probably thought of as a way to
transport the king back to its birthplace in the origin world and thus ensure immortality.
Now it's weird that immortality is one of the goals and you can see how this is represented
represented in human social culture and media and so on. Our stars are called stars.
When something bad happens to them, it's a disaster, which is literally
dis-star. That aster word means star. We're embedded in our language as the memory of the sky beings.
So normalization turns out to be a code word for slavery and we each rebel against this uniquely
and some of us managed to preserve faculties that were in seed form in us in childhood.
We were gravid. We had thousands of eggs of myriad impossible faculties to heal with a touch,
telepathy, to translocate instantly, all of these kinds of things that we think of as supernatural,
but they are not supernatural. They are beyond slavery. They're metaslavic in this sense.
They are the faculties that must be killed off, circumcised, excised, inhibited, destroyed,
or stolen from us, represented and sold back to us at ever-increasing cost.
Right? We don't get the faculties, we get their representations. Instead of telepathy, you can text.
Instead of love and meaningful love-making, there's pornography.
Instead of intelligence, we have bizarre systems of highly sophisticated lexical structure
or the actually fascinating language of mathematics, the languages of mathematics and geometry,
particularly. Profoundly useful, but without knowing their origin, we will not use them well,
without contact with their origin. We will not understand really what they are for,
and they are certainly not for building machines.
So throughout the history of mankind, we've suffered this ongoing tragedy of enslavement
that raises the flag of normalcy.
And along with being dead inside, normalcy is incredibly boring. It is extremely task-oriented,
and it invents tasks to keep itself busy because it's absent from the heartlands of being within us.
An emotion. When I mentioned the snails earlier,
I've had a few adventures with some snails tonight, and some of them were very touching,
and so I feel real pain at having crushed a couple of them in my walk.
And it's not my intent to justify that, I'm just going to say that hurts, that feels painful
to my heart. I love those beings, I do not wish to harm them.
And generally, I'm the kind of person that is very careful about how I walk in the world
and where my foot falls. I'm not a Jane, but I have a lot in common with their
perspective on the preciousness of living beings.
You know, I was thinking about all of the families and marriages
that suffered because they had what was perceived as an abnormal member.
Now, certainly there are some kinds of abnormalcy that we celebrate and think of as excellence.
And these are situations in which someone learns to preserve and embody
faculties and skillfulness and develop it in the ways that we slaves
don't ordinarily have the opportunity to pursue.
And usually the expression of this is in some captured domain of representation.
The consider the young girl who is working on an athletic bar and being, you know,
studying to compete in the Olympics and so on.
Her actual athleticism,
this is the worst embodiment we could imagine for it, display, right? Just straight up display
of skill for the masses on television, in a competition. Her actual athleticism
deserves a better context of expression than that and must have a better context of expression.
And that, that you can see here the problem of what happens when we represent
virtues, yeah? The representation of virtues is not virtuous.
And true virtue means something like true within the context of all beings
in all of time. True in relation to origin.
True in what I refer to as the my arc, which is a word I use to describe the living library of
minds in all of time. Excellence is dead once it's captured into representations.
Because excellence exists fundamentally in being and relation, not in captured expressions
put on television for the Super Bowl. Now I won't say that that's not a mode of excellence that's
being enacted there, but it's being enacted for purposes that are trivial and invented
when we enacted in relation with and for each other in the sake of all beings in all of time.
That's excellence and that comes to life and life comes from life in that way.
There's a grand quest afoot here on earth and it's invisible to nearly everyone,
but all of us sense it and what happens is the representations capture that sense
and misdirect us. You see there's a bad gravity here, a disaster.
But for thousands of years and millions, hundreds of millions of human lifetimes we've suffered
in our lives and families and social situations because there was an expectation that people
would be normal or would at least act normally. But in truth what normal actually means outside
the slave making traditions is unique. To be unique is to be normal. To be unusual is to be normal
because it is in human nature and form and biology and genetics that each human, if we could
analyze their uniqueness versus their normalcy, we would see that the uniqueness is infinite.
There are infinite domains of it and the normalcy is abstract. It's clinical. That's a homo sapien,
male, female, transgendered, whatever we have.
You can see in a way that identity politics, a generalization that I am highly biased against,
of course it's also a continuum so it depends on which elements of or in actions of identity
politics we may be looking at or which proposed theories or so on. But in general this looks
like a pathologically toxic thrisp to me and it's raising the flag of something virtuous but
the problem at hand won't be solved in language in this way. It also seems highly litigious and
fact-tionated. So I'm quite concerned about this
particular way of thinking and speaking as I only, you know, poorly understand it,
admitted all of that. Nonetheless, we can see here a movement that formed itself around
gender but is actually about uniqueness and a resistance to certain features of slave making
language. Males are expected to do thus and such. Females are expected to do thus and such. Again,
we have the expectation protocols and the question of expected by what, expected by who,
expected in general, expected by society, expected by the state of California or the
city of San Francisco or the neighborhood of the inner sunset or, you know, and so one of the
questions of truth is like, if there's expectations, what about the expectations of
the original beings? The sky, our true nature, unencumbered by representational cognition
and all of its artifacts. What's expected there? And probably we'll find there's not anything like
an expectation. There's something more like principles and possibilities, opportunities.
And this is our nature as humans that normalization crushes.
But in identity politics, I can see
a rebellion against the slave making language implicit in English in general, not just about
gender. Now, gender is an interesting place for that conflict to begin and a dangerous one in our
time. One that I think is likely to go badly sideways in all kinds of ways over coming time.
But the intent to pursue the establishment of rather the intent to disrupt the establishment of
normalization is apparent in identity politics. And I find that fascinating.
Even if I disagree pretty deeply with the mode's behaviors and it just looks like a toxic
thrisp to me, it's got all the hallmarks of something that will breed extremism,
either internally or in response to it or both and more.
So it suddenly became apparent to me that in our families, imagine, for example,
just a random example here, how many women have married men that were slightly or significantly
autistic? And not only autistic, these men were often engineers, mathematicians, sometimes artists.
And these are what?
These are some of the social myths we have about autism. They're not purely true.
And yet, it turns out that there's some crossover between the capacity to think in a disembodied
fashion and certain features of human scientific, technological, and philosophical development.
So that you might get periscuitophrenic minds capable of doing things that ordinary minds rarely
approach. Some examples are Georg Cantor, who gave us the the theories of orders of infinity.
Kurt Gdel, who gave us the incompleteness theorems, proving that no system, there will always be
truths within a system that cannot be proved from within that system. A higher order system is
necessary in an attempt to derive those proofs. And all systems must be thus.
People like Einstein, Dirac, Mandelbrot, I'm naming a lot of mathematicians here and mostly males.
Penrose,
Reiman, with his mathematics of manifolds.
John Nash, who was actually both schizophrenic and a mathematical prodigy.
It's most obvious in technological endeavors.
And surely, you know, a surgeon has to be able to disconnect from extreme physical empathy
to do the work that they do on human beings.
So there are lots of places in our society where unusually-minded people
could produce prodigy and seemingly heroic findings and results and systems and so on.
And it strikes me that not only are we all near a divergent, but there seems to be some
interplay of epigenetics here in the sense that there's an aspect of how genes work that
senses not only the present situation, but does some sort of probabilistic analysis of futures
and begins adaptations in the present for situations that will arise in the future.
If this is so, all of technology is changing the human genome and we would naturally see an uptick
in the kinds of diagnoses that dovetail with technological jobs.
Autism being one of them.
We might even call this era the rise of autistic contenders, right? People like Elon Musk, for
example. So these topics are fascinating. If we really wanted to know what was coming in the future,
we might examine someday, perhaps, the genomes of the children
for evidence of prediction, right, of futures. Now, of course, that would create a feedback
loop if we did that, but we're making a feedback loop anyway just by spawning technologies
and representational cultures. Obviously, the children are undergoing
certain kinds of genetic filtering. One example, simple one, is although there's always been
dating services, there have only been dating apps for a fairly short period of time. Let's call it
30 years, and their prevalence today is dramatically changing the genome of humans.
It's literally creating a filter point within the cohort. Now, obviously, not all humans use
dating apps, but younger generations are much more prone to be doing so.
And those apps are literally imposing a selective filter on what couples make babies.
There were some recent articles where it was made clear that
the same kind of thrisp-like behavior that happens commercially in our cultures,
or you get wealth concentrating in the less than 1%, is happening in dating apps so that
people who are attractive have many opportunities, people who have nothing particularly
striking about them have none, or only really bad opportunities. In other words,
they're being predated upon. And this is a common feature of the app context,
circa 2022. So you can see there's a selective process at work that will literally change the
human genome by selecting who gets to mate and who doesn't. Again, there's a normalization protocol
at work there. And no one can compete against the technology unless they were endowed that way
at birth with, for example, great physical beauty or significant wealth or skill sets, so on.
It just occurred to me that so many families have lived with one or more members
that are powerfully neurodivergent, though all the members are neurodivergent.
And because of the expectation of normal behavior and relation, they suffered horribly.
Every family has this trauma hidden in it. We seem to be very concerned about certain kinds of
traumas at this point in time, and I think that's a dangerous thrisp network that has some value
in certain features of it as well. But this is a trauma that hasn't been surfaced.
We're not speaking about this. And really, it's the problem that underlies identity politics.
It's a resistance of normalization. We are not normal. We're not going to be normalized.
If anyone's going to cut on our genitalia, it will be us.
This kind of thing.
There's a word for trying the attempt to recapture societal expectations or behaviors.
And again, weirdly, to normalize them. You can see this where specific ethnicities
may recapture an epithet that was used to insult them, and they turn it into a feature of communion
or fellowship, sisterhood, brotherhood, personhood.
Interesting that hood is on the end of all of these words. How does that arise?
What does that hood word mean? It's funny, because we think of it as language
associated with clothing. But let's find out what it actually is.
So it looks like the etymology originally comes from protection. Now, think about a hood.
It's a protection of the upper body. It also relates to hat, helmet, and so on.
But imagine that the original hood is the sky, and the intelligences in the sky,
in time space, the upper worlds that protect us down here. Certainly, we are protected by the sun.
We are protected by the moon. There are physical instances of this protection
in our actual existence.
See that personhood? But I think in English,
the connotation is that of a hat that identifies who is with us and who is with them.
The cohort membership is the real connotation there, rather than a hat.
And this is why many English terms have incredible depth that we're unaware of if we're not exposed
constantly to etymology, and particularly to the metaphoric and analogic
origins of these words, rather than their extremely abstract and rather clinical current
usage frames. So in all of our families, we're each unusually minded, and some
of the family members will find a way to, quote, fit into modern culture, society, commerce, and so
on. But others will not, or they will fit only very poorly, and all of those people will suffer
terrible poverty, not just in terms of financial well-being, but social opportunities and
developmental opportunities, which are really the important opportunities they lead to all the other
ones. They generalize. So each of us is fundamentally abnormal. The nature of humans
is to not be normal. But the pressures that we face, which are not merely ideological,
but physical, and the punishments we undergo for attempting to preserve our human uniqueness and
to develop the faculties we came to human birth with together and alone. That quest
is very poorly supported and everywhere captured and represented, right? With sports, commerce,
the internet, social media, so on. Now, obviously not all representations are explicitly toxic.
The problem is that if the representation that isn't toxic arises in a milieu that is,
then the non-toxic representations are feeding the toxic processes that capture our excellence
and our prodigy and deploy it for purposes of commerce, war, science, medicine, technology, etc.
In a sense, this sounds like a very intellectual discussion, but it's my heart,
at the core of it, that longs for reunion with my fellow beings and the intelligences in time
space, the divine beings, the transcendental beings, that we are intimately expressions of
in our humanity. It's not like these are separate, distant things. These are beings without whom we
would not exist, nor could we have minds. So in a way, it's the gift of our relation
with origin that's being compromised and represented and turned into addictions and
models and explanations and ideologies and so on. And that's tragic,
but it's not the only thing going on. And we can learn together to recover the faculties we brought
to our human birth and to directly experience the metaposition of knowledge that is insight,
that is alive, that is in relation with the vast active living intelligence system
of the universe and whatever is producing the universe, perhaps as a mere side effect
of its existence. And that is our nature. These are our companions. I say our minds were born
to interact with all of the intelligences on earth, the myriad organismal intelligences here,
and directly, personally, with intelligences that are not embodied in the way that we think of beings
as being. And again, it looks to me like almost all the representational activity of humans
in an attempt to capture and weaponize for the sake of thrips, features of the memory of origin
to mimic it, yes. And this is a fundamental problem in the Cognizium, the mimicry of excellence,
the mimicry of our relationships with nature and origin,
things that mimic features we remember from before we were born, and represent them in
a derivative, highly structured, often abstract, or clinical form.
I don't know if it's possible to reintroduce our species to the intelligences native to time space.
And surely the topics like the possible existence of aliens, I would say the,
basically, in my view, the certain existence of alien species. The question is,
not are there alien species or is there life on other worlds? It seems wildly unlikely to me that
there isn't. But we humans are prone to think in technological metaphors, so we think,
you know, are there beings traveling around in time space in technological vehicles in machines?
And I would argue that advanced intelligences would be well aware of the fact that machines
aren't required. In other words, the substrate itself of time space in the universe
is implicitly intelligent and hyper-connective.
Vast physical distance is an illusion of near neighborhood. The farther away something is,
the nearer it is in 10 other ways. And this is a paradox because we humans,
we're very interested in crossing distances in time and space.
Almost all of our technologies involve this principle to skip space or skip time or skip
participation. Obviously the car, the internet in its way to skip distance.
Even a refrigerator or an oven are ways of transforming time. The refrigerator slows it
down, the oven speeds it up. Which should imply to us that time and relation are important, right?
Time is linked to relation. It's not a linear thing.
What time means for an object differs if it's cold or hot.
How much more so for a being?
So I don't know if it's possible to reintroduce our species to the symbiotic communion
that was natural to us at some point in our ancient history,
in what we might imagine as the time before the tree incident in the story.
And there's an ancient promise of someone bringing this back to us,
reawakening in us all that has been killed this way. And this is the promise of a Messiah.
And also in some sense of prophets. But the problem is
when the gods went away, so to speak, when the symbiotic intelligences we were moment to moment
linked with. A more intimate link than a physical one.
Our minds were touching theirs. They did not speak to us. We were sharing minds with them.
When that disappeared, first you got small cohorts who could open the door in the sky.
And then, and some of those survived and some of them were obliterated because they weren't normal.
And they weren't easily enslaved.
And you can see that there's a polarity here between slavery and contact
with non-human intelligence. Those who had that contact were capable of completely
resisting slavery. That's not normal. They were free of knowledge, the burden of knowledge,
and structured behavior, and social norms, and ridiculous ideologies that counterfeited
principles that our bodies and minds arise as exemplars of.
That's the kind of truth I mean when I'm saying if knowledge is false what is true.
It's the memory of origin unoccluded by thinking and language.
One might say this is Abel's or Hevel's memory, the twins born right after the tree incident came
and Abel, Cayenne, and Hevel.
So at first there were some survivors who could open the door in the sky and these were prophets.
But eventually, and it didn't take long, we had people and cohorts mimicking that.
It's very difficult to tell the mimicry from the authentic, right? There are clearly psychics who
can touch your mind in history and there are also psychics who use techniques that have been
evolved by magicians over time to give the appearance of psychic ability and even a very
shocking and impressive appearance, but it is mimicry. So we started to have the problem way back
then mostly in cultures that had settled and were city building, right? This is where mimicry
kind of gets most of its start, this kind of mimicry.
And the thrifts are mimetic, they mimic value, right? They don't deliver value,
they deliver slavery, but they mimic value and this is why they're so contagious in the human
cognisium, all these ideas that mimic value. And certainly there's some kind of compass
that we use in our minds that's value seeking.
Unfortunately, the faculties involved in vigilance, prediction, and dealing with ambiguity
are easily captured by thrifts because they are extremely cost inefficient in terms of
awareness. They're very expensive in terms of awareness. And so in the evolution of human
consciousness and thought, the systems that we've developed are systems to offload that cost.
And it's really easy to offload it into deception.
We are so coddled by our technologies that we don't experience what animals would experience
if they tried to do something like we do, which is death, right? Outside the representational
layers we've established in nature at the outer space of representational cognition,
most of us would quickly die. We would make a catastrophic mistake because we'd be paying
attention to the wrong thing or we'd be distracted by thinking. Animals don't have that luxury.
There's an evolutionary filter that just filters that off. And one of the things that
human technology does is distort that filter in such a way that unintelligent behavior propagates
and can survive. The immeasurable seeming protections offered us by our technological
milieu, home building, roads, hospitals, all these things, computer networks and weapons of war,
and so on, medicine, allopathic medicine, and on and on, allow us to fake our way past the
filter that would ordinarily wipe us out because we're not in touch with being, we're in touch
with representations. And in any natural milieu, that'll get you killed. Unless you have deep
experience of that milieu, which may involve representations, but is largely active sensing,
right? It's active sensing informed by previously forged representations. For example, those are
wolf tracks. A bird has made a kill here. It was a hawk. There are hawks here, right? There's
extensionalism that happens when we notice phenomenon. But to survive in the ocean
or in the wild, you have to depend on active sensing first, which is deeply embodied
and extremely relational. Yes, you can teach abstractions of it, but without the embodiment,
they will function poorly at best.
All of us are capable of active sensing, and we can practice it. And we can practice it together
for reasons that lead to insight rather than just capture derivative abstract representation.
Even though most of this language I'm using is abstract, you see, once we turn the mind
in a certain direction, we easily find paradox in knowledge. If I say that knowledge is false,
but I am making knowledge here with language. Yes, it is false. It's not the true thing. It's
not us in communion, in wonder and awe and fascination, learning with all of the living
beings here and the intelligences of the sky. No, it is not that yet. But I can point at that
in abstraction. In other words, from within abstraction, I can point beyond it, even using
those tools.
When I'm making these videos, I'm trying to see better with you, though you are not here with me.
It is my hope that we can learn to see better together in new ways and ancient ways that return
to us some of the promise and opportunity implicit in our human incarnation.
And even if we can only make a little bit of progress together, that seems beautiful to me,
and worthy, and virtuous. And virtue is a concern of mine, not because I adopted some
pre-fab moral framework, but because my experience as a human being has clarified in me that there
are faculties that can sense origin and that origin is fundamentally virtuous.
And so, of course, I am concerned when I depart from virtue in any of my behaviors,
though as an ordinary human, many of my behaviors have little or no virtue and may even
work against virtue, the irony of being human, to see the ecstatic beauty of the universe
and its nature, to see into it, but yet to fail to live up to that vision.
And in some way, perhaps my expectations are unrealistic, but I think not.
I know I have some more things to share, but I think I will wrap up for now.
I'm so grateful to all of you who listen and explore together with me
all the ways that we are more than human, and the fundamental wonder of our existence,
and even the very difficult experiences that many of us are having in the time we live in now.
Thank you for joining me. I look forward to learning together again very soon.
