Hey everybody.
I'm here at the pond where I, in other times, have practiced frog sneaking, which is the
art of very slowly approaching a frog here, sunning itself on the shore.
And this year there may not be as many or maybe even any frogs since the pond is artificial,
meaning that there's a tarp underneath it.
But it's a very old pond.
I've known it for at least 20 years.
And I've watched it change and grow.
I've observed it, but I've also participated.
This tree here is a being, in my view, I'll wander around why that might be in a minute.
This tree has embodied the time of this place, the living, the lived time of this place.
It's not a recording device.
It's something far better.
Because although it is the embodiment of all of that lived time, and I don't mean
hours or days, though we can think in these terms, I mean something at once more ordinary
and transcendental to how we think about time, usually how we are, you know, scripted
to think about time.
No, it's not a record.
It's the embodiment of lived presence in the local field of relationships.
From before the moment it sprouted, all the way back through its lineage to the beginning
of life on earth, to this tree here now, which the word tree is meaningless, it's just a
token that points toward a category and an instance of a category and so on, if we're
in our intellect.
The tree transcends the intervals we're used to.
It's not seconds or minutes or hours or days or months.
But it is the embodiment, not of intervals, but of presence, living awareness and relation
with all of the beings, not just nearby, but all of their histories, and in some sense
one can imagine it as the local instancing of tree-ness, not just its species here in
this place at this time, but it's one of the local embodiments of all that trees are and
become, all of their relations, their history.
And what I experience of the tree depends on many choices that I make, even though for
most of us we don't have a lot of choices here a lot of the time.
But my capacity for relating with the tree is either limited or assisted by my intention
and my perspective, what I'm looking for, what I'm looking at, why I'm engaged at all.
My hope today is to talk a bit about observation, time and intent, not necessarily in that order.
Now the question of whether the tree is a being or not has a strange, like most people will
agree that it belongs to the class of discriminables we call organisms, and we would think of
it as vegetation. And so we would associate qualities that we've learned to recognize
about organisms in general and about vegetation. Most of us would intuitively just apply those
layers before we approach the tree in our awareness.
And I've suggested before that when we make those usually invisible to us choices, we are not so much
granting our minds wings as we are selecting.
You can go through if you want, yeah.
Yeah. We are selecting
templates, habitual and familiar,
that will limit more often than expand our,
the opportunities we will be available to in terms of participation relating with.
We do this with each other, we do it with ideas, we do it with commodities,
but we especially do it with living places and beings.
So that we are inclined to dismiss the most of the relational manifold presented
excessively by living beings and places. And part of this is because we have acquired knowledge.
Knowledge gets in the way. Where it doesn't, where it doesn't not get in the way, it's in the way.
Let me put it that way. So
when we approach, for example, a tree, and if you ask many people,
do you think the tree is a being with something analogous or maybe beyond
what you call awareness, which doesn't necessarily mean that it's aware that it's
an it or they're aware that they're a they.
We don't know exactly what it might mean unless we can contact the awareness of the tree
with our awareness. And there are people who are inclined to suspect that
a sort of, how shall I put this? They believe an anachronism, a myth,
that is implied by our relationships with the categories. So that, for example,
plants aren't available to your intentional, to an intentional, mutually intentional exchange
of awareness. And they might think this, for example, because they think plants don't have brains.
Trees don't have brains. So since they don't have brains,
there's nothing really there for you to relate with other than it's beautiful or it's alive.
Not everyone thinks this way.
But the problem with approaching things from the categories we're trained to use
is not only that they're incomplete, they're cripplingly incomplete.
If we believe the myth that living beings don't have awareness,
or if we say, well, they have something analogous, but it's much less.
We're making a mistake that's not so much about whether trees are beings that we can
have a relationship with or not. It's more about sort of making slices in our own opportunity
pie, pulling out tiny slivers and throwing the rest away. Here's why.
If I ask whether the tree can be my friend or someone I can relate with,
it's a peculiar kind of question because it presupposes that there's a state
of being the tree that is already there or not there,
regardless of what we think. And our categories, our relationship with categories,
informs or deforms or amputates aspects of possibility so that we can conveniently get on
with that stuff we're doing all the time, which most of the time is finding a way to
skip over relational possibilities and get on to the thing that actually matters, getting the money,
getting the job, doing the task, thinking the thinking.
So the intellect can be deceptive, and it's often deceptive. And we have other
relationships within the broad continuum of our accessible humanity.
There are many assets implicit in our humanity with which we can approach
relationships with living places and beings.
And these are so explosively, the potential of these relationships is so explosively different
and transcendental to what we do with words and categories and concepts and theories,
that if we were to take the latter collection of stuff, behaviors and so on,
compared to what we're,
compared to what I encompass when I talk about the living beings and the places and such,
that little dust spec is microscopic in scope and ability,
in embodied potential for transcendental insight and for the fulfillment of our humanity and
you could throw away intellect and our humanity, what would rush into the vacuum
that it often asserts and creates. And I have to use it against itself in my talk at the moment,
which is ironic, but I'm beautiful, I'm paradoxical, and maybe paradox is important here.
Yes, compared to this little derivation moat the humans have done with their language and
intellect and categories and such, what we are participating in as organs of nature,
it's like comparing, I don't know, a galaxy to a microscopic mode of sand.
And yet the intellect easily presents as authoritative.
It knows what things are and what they do. So back to this question about trees
and whether we can, our awareness, whether our consciousness can have a meaningful relationship
with the being and the network of beings and the lineage of beings that we could understand some
tree, not to represent, to embody. Now, in my view, this isn't a question.
I'm asking what appears to be a question
because I respect the confusion of people who having no such experience of trees
and having received the same scripting I did about what they aren't and that a single creature is a
single creature, an individual, and so on and so forth, and that trees don't have minds so they
can't have anything like awareness or consciousness. That presumes that humans have knowledge they've
never come near intellectually and it's simply wrong. It's blatantly wrong. However, I'll probably
have to give some analogies or examples to help show how it's wrong or why, part of why it must be
wrong. The first problem is that we have complete knowledge of organisms. We have not even one
percent of knowledge about organisms. We know tiny little things that we've teased apart with
intellect and research. Compared to organisms themselves, those things are very nearly useless
unless you intend to turn organisms into commodities or hitchhike on their
beyond all beyonds advanced embodiments of intelligence in relationships
and intelligence in relationships with time, with observation, like the flowers.
Intent is a little trickier because intent is something
it's a quality I'm not ready to collapse into my discussion about organisms, plants, trees,
insects, animals, sea creatures, microorganisms. So we have some frameworks that are cultural
and if we came from cultures that lived in relation with living beings in nature,
we would have different frameworks and in fact the frameworks would be fuzzier.
There'd be some play in there, some ambiguity because there is always and what it gets taken up
by for most of us is the framework. Trees are essentially growing things. You cut them up into
lumber, blah blah blah. But there's a particular concern I have that I want to highlight which is
that some aspects of relation are not intrinsic. The fact that you are there and a tree is there
does not mean you're going to be likely to sense immediately the opportunity to have
an exchange, a relational transfer with a tree or a plant.
Particularly if you're in your intellect, but it's much easier if you're in your heart.
And the question isn't really can one have a relationship or a relational exchange, an ongoing
continuum of exchanges where both beings are honoring each other and maybe loving one another
and relating with one another. Sounds superficially ridiculous about trees,
but it's because of the imposition of the categories and what they evict from
not our opportunity, but what we think. In other words, they change our intent.
They delimit our intent so that most of us, many of us, probably don't believe it's useful to talk
to trees whether that's done with our heart, like with our imagination, or with our mouths in human
language. And we generally are trained to believe that communications happen in language.
Another catastrophic deception. Something, you know, a collapse of the many possibilities
of communication, a sort of artifact like skeletal thing happens with language over time.
Language temporalizes experience because it gives it a sort of heartbeat of signals
emitted and received and forged and interpreted and so on. But there are older ways of communication
that are faster and better and deeper and richer than speaking or writing.
So I'm going to crib from a little bit here from the book, Saving the Appearances, because
it presents one of the best analogies that's relevant to what I'm orbiting.
And it's not like that's the first book to present this analogy.
But some of the opportunities inherent in our humanity are not presented directly to the intellect.
In fact, they may make their first appearance in our nervous system, presuming we consider these
distinct, and I know we don't have to, or our hearts. And I'm not intending to imply the dualism
that language seems to impose here, or the, you know, the trialism or the quadrilism.
Um, they aren't different things, so much as they are different faculties, they are distinguishable
faculties. And if I approach a relational situation with the intent to gain a profit
in the sense of make money, I may want to just tear it down and sell the parts and,
you know, harvest, quote unquote, harvest the vegetation or hunt the animals.
And so if I approach with the intent to discover
whether and in what ways
I can have meaningful relations with living places and living beings,
one of the first things that happens is I move from the position of, you know,
um, plausible superiority to humility, right? I go from, I make, I get smaller,
and I take off those frameworks that claim that humans know what stuff is and what's
going on and what its qualities are and what its behaviors mean and so on and so forth.
I take all that, I try to take as much of that off as possible.
It can be challenging. But the reason that I'm, that I'm telling the story, which I forgot to
complete my sentence back there, was that I have compassion and concern for people who are interested,
but it doesn't make sense to them. Um, I was out with some really bright coders
that my friend Josh introduced me to some time ago for dinner. And we'd been walking around
the gardens and I'd been talking a bit about trees. And one of them turned to me entirely,
sincerely, and said, how do you relate with a tree?
So in part, I'm responding to that because first of all, I didn't see, I didn't judge,
if I judged what his, you know, his question, I judged it sincere and entirely reasonable.
And I think this is an entirely reasonable question. And in case I'm, in case I'm presenting
the appearance that I'm a great tree communicator or something like that, please don't take that
uh, as my intent, because it's not, nor is it true.
What I have is humility and the awareness that I've had these questions for 40 years
or longer. What are the trees really? What are the insects really? What do they know themselves as?
Not in the sense of knowledge, but in the sense of embodied participation
in the unimaginable splendor
of organismal symbiotic union.
Something like this. So I feel really humble and I don't have answers.
What I am aware of are the limitations we ordinarily operate under
and how invisibly prohibitive and impoverishing they are. That's what I'm aware of.
I know, I know a little bit about that, right? And perhaps something too about trees, you'll
have to ask them because I am not the arbiter. It's something between me and the trees, but not
just the trees, you know, I'm using them as an example. So first of all, I think the question is
entirely honest and reasonable and so I'm trying to respond to it a little today.
And I did give him some modest answers. I said, you know, come to the tree with your heart,
you know, pay attention, stay with it for a while. Its time is different from yours.
Bring maybe an offering of some kind, some water, some earth. Something that,
you know, the tree might recognize as a gift in its own non-human, non-representational way.
Now back to my analogy from saving the appearances. The author of that book
talks about the rainbow and asks, you know, is the rainbow there?
And the faculties and opportunities that we bring to human birth
have a lot to do with questions like this. They don't have to do in the way our intellectual
traditions imply so much with, you know, what can we reliably distinguish
about some phenomenon that we've divided from all other things and categorized and so on
and dissected and whatever. What can we surmise about that that fits in with knowledge in our
categories and logic and so on and so forth? This habit while useful, where it's useful,
is a disaster everywhere it's not. And one of those places is in relationships.
Research doesn't tell you what relationships are about.
In fact, research is an intent that changes observation and participation in ways that we
should be very, we should keep clearly in our awareness so that we know when not to use them.
So one of the questions or answer, you know, one of the, one of my responses to is the tree,
a being is what if you are both transformed to something you couldn't previously be
when you interact together, right? And the rainbow is kind of an analogy of this.
One is interacting with light, usually in some kind of mist, but there are other kinds of rainbows.
In fact, something not too many people are aware of is that if you look at the setting sun
through the branches of a tree, you are likely to notice an astonishing phenomenon
that I'll call a starburst, which is that the sun makes an astonishing
circuit like disk of little spikes of rainbow light that carousel and are alive and transform.
Is it there? Is it there without you? Is it there without the very place you stand on,
the precise distance we want to make measurements from the tree and the sun?
Is it there without an organism to participate? Is it intrinsic to space that it suddenly fills
with rainbows? No. Rainbows are a relationship. They're a relationship between, in the between,
right? Of a field of relationships, of infinite kinds and accessibility.
So, if someone suggests to me that the tree is not aware, I might be inclined to suggest that,
or to ask, do you think you might have any capacity to transform that?
What if something about the awareness of the tree depends, in some way, on your participation because
even if you decide trees cannot be aware, you're making a relational distance,
you're relating the trees, right? And you're deciding, no, this is illogical, the trees could have
or represent the opportunity for something transcendental to human minds, right? But how can
you exclude all of the capacities of your own humanity, most of which remain undiscovered and
unacknowledged and hidden in little crypts of intellectual assertions and logic over the years
when the birth of those things and their replacement of their progenitors was going on,
and that's a really recent replacement, that old stuff that got replaced.
You know, our interpretations of it look superstitious, they are backwards. They are backwards.
So, though I will admit it's my perspective that living beings have awareness of many different
kinds, and they have different layers of awareness, and they're differently aware in different
circumstances, just like we are. Whether I suspect, you know, that organisms and ecologies
aren't merely beings, they're something up tree, right? Up the category tree above being,
that we don't really have a word for, except gods or spirits, and those are so
valuable and I don't want them right now. So, it's my experience that this is so.
I'm not trying to convince others of it, though I might ask them to consider it,
because it really matters if it turns out that, for example, the ecologies, our own minds,
our extensions of them, and the damage that happens there happens to us. That would be a very
profound and seemingly, to me, an escapable consequence of our, you know, the common human
propensity to categorize, taxonomize and dismiss, you know, dissect, categorize, dissect,
taxonomize, dismiss. It's not the only thing that happens, it's just very, very common, though,
and lethally common in both in that it's deadly and it makes us forget.
The various kind of corresponding, sparkling strata of awareness in a living place is not
entirely unlike the starburst that emerges behind the tree at sunrise or sunset as if to
as if to celebrate
every time this ever happened in every being, in every being it ever happens to.
A reassurance that
the face of origin has returned from the ambiguity of night
and with its
particular spectra of light awakens our eyes to
distinction and color and shape, identity, whereas in the nighttime all of that's much fuzzier.
Intent transforms what's available to our awareness, the methods we use
to make cuts in the everything in our thought affect the choices, they delimit the choices
of intent we can embody, we can enact.
And when I see the tree part of my intent
is to forget the frameworks and habits
that I'm accustomed to and enter with humility and wonder and reverence and awe
and imagination and heartfulness into presence with the living being I'm with.
And seeing that being not just as an individual but as an instance of the place, the histories,
the corresponding layers of organismal awareness that together comprise a superposition far above
what's available to a single organism, an accessible superposition and that position lies
staggeringly beyond anything that will ever be available to language and intellect.
So for me
there's something better than space travel which I was just apeshit over the idea as a kid.
There's something far better than space travel, there's travel in the layers of awareness
and intelligence that exist all around us that we're totally ignoring in a race to get off world
in the hope that we'll find intelligence in the universe by which we mean behavior that
resembles our incredibly ignorant misbehavior with the intellect, right? They make categories out of
things and dissect them and can tell us what they do in their theoretical yeah good luck with that.
It's almost the opposite of intelligence and it's so
I strongly suspect that what we refer to as the intellect is a very very recent transformation
in human consciousness and that its progenitors were far more
diversely dimensionalized and vital and responsive to our hearts, right? To our intuition,
to our to our felt sense of being, you know, in a way that partly resembles children
but partly resembles wise people at the same time.
I mean if you have, for example,
an old trireme ship, right, and you can use it to explore the ocean
but you didn't really trust that it was a good ship because parts of it were more ambiguous than
others like the hull, right? The skeleton of the ship is what's really dependable, right? In fact,
the skeleton is what you depend on so that's the dependable thing. Great, well if you throw away
the rest of that ship, the skeleton is no longer dependable, right? You can be as confident as you
want about how incredibly well made that skeleton is. The moment you put it in the water of actual
relation with actual intelligences and beings, it fails. It just sinks.
And we've got a similar problem with intellect.
Now I was noticing earlier, you know, we bring intent with us whether we are
relating with or even beginning to observe phenomenon. Maybe observation and relation
or other are two terms for the same essential thing. Just tying my scarf here.
Ah, and this brings to mind the astonishing profundity to me of the analogy of which actual
seeing, looking is far above this analogy, not below it, not beneath it. It's not encompassed by it.
A feature that's often overlooked is pointed at by this analogy but the analogy that the gaze is
like a hand in light, right? So that that upon which the gaze, that over which the gaze travels
or upon which it comes to rest, along that gaze is communicated the intent of the one looking,
whether conscious or not. In the same way that to touch something, we touch it with a certain,
a certain array of qualities, right? Like I'm grabbing this knife to cut something or,
you know, I'm petting the pet or I'm lovingly making the food or I'm
frustratedly making food, right? Everything we touch with our hands,
somehow the spirit that moves before our bodies do, the essence that moves before our bodies do,
instruct whether we're gentle or playful or fierce or severe or, you know, crushing or what, yeah?
And this is particularly true when we touch each other, right? Certain kinds of touching
don't feel good. Other kinds feel nice at the right time.
So there's this old idea that our gaze is really like
the invisible hand of our essence or our souls. And so when we use our gaze, we,
I think, again, because we were told, no, no, seeing isn't touching things.
In fact, there's, it's not, you know, it's not, it's not a rational thought
that to see is to caress or to crave or to
adore or to despise or to
become fearful.
Yet those of us who see probably can sense
that all of these things are involved, whether or not they'd like to admit my analogy. And I'm
saying things are much more profound than that. I'm saying that's, that's a crude model of something
really astonishing that's actually going on that our representational systems cannot cope with,
which is part of why they don't represent it. Not only can it not be encompassed by language,
it's inconceivable in the paradigms we're trained to think in and to the ways we're trained to use
categories. We respond to observation.
A friend was last night explaining to me how the unspoken rules
of a social engagement at Tango, if I remember correctly called a tanda,
the rules require the unspoken ones that
the man doesn't verbally ask the woman to dance. It is done,
they, they select their dance partners with the eyes primarily, and there's a non-verbal
pre-dance of ambiguous possibility that occurs. But if a man were to actually walk up and say,
even very politely, would you care to dance, someone who understood the spirit of the tanda
would refuse, every time. And this is part of what I'm trying to illustrate, is that
when we look at older forms of tradition and relation and culture, we find evidence of all
these things that our very rational modern mind seeks to dismiss.
In fact, though we call it rational, we're likely to put some object above the, you know,
the dividing line and nothing but not below it or, you know, some incredibly
delimited skeleton of what otherwise might have been a, you know, a ratio worth being involved in.
So part of my point here is that observation transforms us dramatically and this is,
I want to, I want to talk mostly about the flip side of surveillance because I think we all know
that being, being observed changes our, our way of being in our bodies, in our awareness,
the motivations that they're from emerge, our habits.
And on the one hand, we want, you know, we want two wings on this bird. We want
to be observed in those expressions of ourselves that we want to observe, you know,
that we want, that we intend, that face out toward observers in particular, like mom and dad,
if I'm a kid or an audience, if I'm a comedian, right? We certainly want the,
the comedian wants to be observed, right? The child's mommy, mommy, look at me, look at me,
wants to be observed. And this is an incredibly sophisticated topic, which I'm just going to
say a few modest things about today. Then there's the other thing of we really don't want to be
observed in our privacy. And we don't want to be surveilled, particularly in situations that make
us vulnerable to execution or impoverishment at the whim of some surveyor. We don't want to be
the research subjects in a lab whose intent is malignant. And we don't want to be observed in any
lab that we didn't actually will it completely willingly with not, you know, with awareness
sign up for. And maybe we would sign up for very few if we weren't being paid somehow,
or being, you know, having some, some seeming benefit transferred to us.
But we are animals that are profoundly sensitive to observation,
such that it can radically transform who we are, what we do, how we think, our relationships
with our intellect or our hearts, our motivations, our intentions, dramatically and instantaneously.
And it's possible to observe so lovingly, so
with such inspiration and enthusiasm and wonder and joy, that those beings upon whom our gaze
falls, so to speak, whom it the beings whom our gaze touches
light up, right? This is one of the capacities of
intent and observation and the gaze, though it's hard to formally have that intent
and execute it. It's not an executable. It's not an algorithm. It's not a code.
It's an emotion. It is the movement of the
the heartfully sensitive aspects of ourselves.
It's not a rule. And if made a rule, it dies in the same way that
the man formally asking the woman to dance fails every time.
It's the wrong form. And it's too concrete.
And it too completely delineates the roles.
Even if, in fact, in visual exchanges, it may be common for the man to propose the dance.
I don't know.
I was placing my hand on a tree and someone was passing me and I was aware she was observing me.
I believe that she was an older Japanese woman.
My felt sense of her proximity transformed what was happening between me and the tree.
I felt a surge of intensity and reverence that on my own, I'm not sure I would have experienced.
And I don't know whether this is because I was imagining something in my mind,
which is entirely possible. And indeed, there was some aspect of my imagination that was
engaged and aware. And perhaps I was being gazed upon. I don't know. I can't tell you the statistics
on this one. I just know that as that woman passed me, I felt this beautiful surge of
enthusiasm and reverence and my heart sort of awoke and got in on the conversation.
And I was responding to being observed.
There are some things we won't do generally, some things we might otherwise do that we won't do
if we're aware that we're being observed. But there's a flip side to surveillance,
which is positive surveillance. Being seen by those whose attention inspires or transforms us
calls us to a higher, a better, a more diverse and beneficial
way of being in the moment. And here, in our cultures, we're trained to use negative observation
very adeptly, but the real powerful thing is positive surveillance. To have the attention
and concern and awareness of beings that we love, people that we love and want to be seen
and known by. And I gotta tell you, to have the positive surveillance of nature
is a grace you don't want to pass through human life without experiencing,
because you won't know what it means to be human if you don't have this experience.
And maybe I'm making a really severe recommendation here, but it's truly
heartfelt. It's not intellectual. If you don't know what it's like to have a living place
look kindly on you, wow, it's like a fish that's never been wet. I mean, that somehow was kept
alive in some bizarre laboratory of intellect, right? You want to, trust me, if you think things
you enjoy are good, you should understand the origin of goodness and it's not in things.
It's in positive relational surveillance of other beings living places and in play with them and in
in relation with them and adventuring together and being one body together, knowing that
you can sense that this place knows me and loves me and as I love it and that, you know,
I am its human body and it is my organismal body and this kind of thing. This is some really
wonderful stuff that's part of why people are really interested in intoxicants is because
they hope to have some taste of that. Unfortunately, I think intoxicants
with some few exceptions are more inclined to interfere and to put a frame there that you
might be better off not having, you know, not having intrude.
Now again, I'm really just introducing this topic. I think I have another video or two
about it but and I'm not really that interested in the whole quantum physics argument about
even though, you know, I could use it as an analogy about the intent being like, you know,
mechanical observation in quantum physics that transforms and collapses the cloud.
It's a really useful and interesting analogy and I'm not dismissing it. I just don't want to
reinforce it because then we'll have a frame, right? Yet, the analogy has important features.
There's the living places and the living beings. They are fields of potential just as we are and
as we come together, those fields of potential start to disambiguate in the way in a way that
I'm reminded of by the request of the glance in the tundra, right?
And when we look directly at something,
if our gaze is like touching with our spirit, looking very directly at a thing
that could be seen as intrusive or insensitive, right? An approach from the side is often useful
and one of the things that's nice about humility when it's true is it helps ensure that my gaze
is one of reverence and offering and is plaintive and is respectful.
Now, these may seem very subtle things and perhaps in our modern environment, they are.
But they must, there is crucial to me that we recover
the faculties and relationships that are ejected into the void
of intellect and statements and concrete disambiguation and naming and all of this.
Hmm.
Which isn't to say those things are only bad again,
where they overwhelm and deprive us of opportunity, that's too intrusive.
Maybe it's in the wrong context, right? Intellect has appropriate contexts
for its intelligent application.
And intellect is capable of forming
sort of returning dimensionality that would otherwise be dismissed to thought and conception.
So, these are a few of the things that were on my mind, but I've not yet spoken of time much.
And so, what I'm going to do is just say a few things.
Each of the organisms and the organisms that compose the organisms, their cells,
these are layers of living temporality.
And they're so profound and so staggering because each organism is at once
individual-like, while at the same time always being an organ in this multi-layered,
astonishing manifold of life and being and awareness.
So, they're both, they're not, they're never completely individual and you can't make them
that way even in a lab. You can separate one cell from all other things and look at it.
And that's a really weird thing to do because in nature that doesn't really happen and I'm
not sure the walls of the laboratory and the walls of the enclosure actually successfully
accomplish concrete distinction of a cell because there's all these layers that aren't merely space
in which the cell participates and of which the cell is an instance of.
So, the thing about time is that it's relational. You have to have at least two things in relation
to have time at all. And if those things are beings, the kind of time you get is completely
different than if they're objects. Oh, wow, a condor. So, there are trillions and trillions
and uncountable trillions of organisms on Earth alive right at this moment.
And each one of them is a local experiencer of time and producer of time in relation with other
beings. So, time is some amazing. Time is a many-splendored thing that our models of it
flatten and crush down to, well, metrics. But time is, by splendid, I mean,
diversely embodied, expressed, experienced, enriched in the between of all beings.
And I noticed today something surprising. I'm a fan of Alfred Korshepski and he refers to,
in his work, he talks about how one of the things that differentiates us
from other organisms is that we are time binders. But I think what he means is that we bind time
cognitively, conceptually, linguistically in formal representational cognition. And what he
means by that is we transfer the history of what we've done so far to our children
in a layer that isn't merely, that's like supra embodied, the layer of thinking and minds and
stuff, right? So, he says that we bind time in this way. I'd probably have picked a better
phrase, but I understand what he means. We undergo in language and in culture and childhood.
And thus, assets, well, we hope they're assets. In many cases, they're deficits
that were previously established in our language and conceptual context and time, culture,
so on. These are transferred and we undergo uptake and are thus transformed by them.
And I think that's reasonable. It's not a bad model. It seems to match pretty well what happens
for most of us, though it happens uniquely for each one of us. And one of the things that often
isn't discussed here is the difference between declaration and connotation, right? The associations
that a concept or a word or a phrase has for us as a unique individual,
as well as those that it commonly has in generalized populations.
But that's not really important. What I noticed and what I was very surprised by was
that we're time skippers. We keep inventing new ways to skip over what would have otherwise
involved relational investment, presence, care, concern, awareness. Our species has this
fascinated addiction to finding new ways to skip over the space in which relation would otherwise
occur. And we call these technologies, right? If you have to walk through a landscape, you're
going to have one kind of, you know, you're going to have a very relatively intimate relationship
if you're not just distracted with that landscape and all, you know, and the continuum between the
beginning and end of your journey. If instead you're on a horse, you're going to have a different,
very different, because now you've included another organism with you and its senses and
yours start to get mixed together and something very interesting is going on there.
But you can go faster than you can on foot. You can get across the gap quicker. And if you
use a bicycle, you can get across the gap quicker if you use a motorcycle quicker, a car quicker,
a jet very quick. And in fact, when we do this with a jet, we usually experience this kind of
illness that we call jet lag, but actually it's us having skipped time, right? We went into a
relational superposition over time and distance and we traveled between two places faster than any
organism ever did in the history of the world, most likely. And so part of what's happening
is just temporal displacement, right? The temporalities in which we're enmeshed in a given
place, like my apartment or this park, are very unique to that place. And if suddenly I not only
leave them, but I go into a position where they're no longer very relevant or present,
and then I travel over a great distance very quickly and then I land, right? I've skipped over
the interval. And this strange desire has intruded into every aspect of our lives
so that instead of having adventures, we watch shows. We observe people who planned
for us to observe them enacting things which are not real for them.
That's some pretty interesting diagnostic material there. But yeah, I noticed and was
surprised that it's not just that we're time binders, we want to skip over the interval.
And all of our technology is what the things we call conveniences. These are primarily
methods of skipping, relating with things, mindfully, presently, heartfully, with awareness,
with meaningful,
with meaningful purpose of intelligence and care. And one of the things that happens as we
keep skipping over these intervals, and introducing new ways to skip and new kinds
of skipping and new distances to cross, which we've done very adeptly while pretending we're
connecting stuff and people, is that the pace of intrusive, non-relational time skipping
seductions keeps increasing. And along with that, there's a whole array of noise,
electromagnetic, audible, relational. And in the absence of the relations that we otherwise
would have pursued and embodied and experienced, something very malignant is seething, in my view.
So we aren't just time binders, we're time skippers. And the more different aspects of our
life we are encouraged to skip over for convenience, the more we become profoundly attached in a
weirdly superficial way. I know it sounds oxymoronic, but I did mention that paradox might be important
here. We get profoundly attached in a very superficial way to representations,
because they represent the time we were absent from. And those can be objects like newspapers or
printouts or books or even garbage, right? Because not having lived in the time, we may cling to the
the the artifacted remains of our failure to do so as if it held the promise of returning that
time to us, which it doesn't. But this may be an aspect of why each of us variously hoards certain
kinds of things unless we don't. When I walk here in the garden, I return to something
resembling living temporality unless I'm making a recording.
Even then I'm still in the field of it, right? It's nearby and I'm sensitive a little bit.
But it's when I walk without my device that I'm actually, I've got a shot at being present.
Observation, intent, time.
The transformations possible under the
encouraging gaze of the positive observation of a living place where people we love or
hope to have meaningful relationships with.
Thanks for joining me.
Hmm
