Hey everybody. Welcome. I don't know if you can see, but the sun is quite golden as it's
beginning to set and in the tree on the in the old dead tree on one of the upper right-hand
branches, there's a hawk. So before I begin, I'm just gonna talk for a few minutes about a
couple of topics. One being the idea of the new year. Because I was, I wrote a post about this
last year, I guess. And I often, you know, I have a Facebook account and I don't really talk much
about my personal life there for lots of reasons, but I use it a bit like a notebook. And I have
for a long time now, probably at least 12 years. In any case, last year I posted something about the
idea that I think our calendars are nonsensical. And so are machines like that one. In fact, I think
those machines should just explode. I really wish they would actually. Oh, I'm gonna get my phone
shadow. Wow. I haven't really had that problem before in a video. That's kind of, it's kind of
trippy. So I have to come at it from the side here to avoid the phone shadow. I don't know which
side is my best side, but this side probably has less moles. So yeah, I think our calendar is
nonsensical. And it's a weird representation of a repeating metric that while it conserves some
resemblance to the procession of moons and the sun in the 365 day cycle that we call a year,
actual years should have varying lengths if the idea is even meaningful. And I think the idea is
somewhat meaningful. We consider it, though the concepts are a little iffy, we consider it to be
the measurement of one orbital cycle of the earth around the sun, presuming, and I think this is a
huge presumption, that the important thing the earth is doing is orbiting the sun. And that
that's got the right precedence of value. Because what we tend to neglect in our common conceptual
ideas is that precedence is produced by how you participate in something, not by the idealization
of it. Thus, in a question earlier, a friend of mine asked something like, I wish I could remember
the exact statement, because it's important, how would one derive an orientation in a situation in
which there were no directions, or in fact, the possibility of directions, or orientation was
precluded. And I said something like, an orientation is an idealized thing. You couldn't produce an
orientation, but you might be able to orient here, which is a behavior, right? And this places the
precedence on the experiencer, rather than on the abstraction. And this is one of the central
problems in thought and language for human beings for thousands of years. And by problem, I don't
mean, oh, here we have a conundrum. I mean, something that will get us all killed and destroy the
world, right? That's what I mean by a problem. This is a terrifying nightmare. It's not some
trivial philosophical, you know, diversion. So my friend said, yes, yes, that distinction is
valuable. I understand it. Because he gets that there's no such thing as ideals. And that abstractions
are nothing like human experience. And the first, my first response was something like, well, in a
situation in which there's no direction. So this question comes from a philosophical problem about
a sphere, a being who is a sphere, right? Like the earth, for example, except the earth isn't a
perfect sphere, but hey, close enough, same with the sun. The sphere is distorted by various forces
and situations, we might call them distorted. See, that's the weird idea. For the humans, anything
that diverges from the perfect abstraction is problematical. So that's a distortion, right?
Which it should be the other way around. The denigrat- the derogatory idea should be the ideal,
not the deviation from the ideal, which is natural and factual and ordinary, right? But for humans,
representational cognitives like us, we think, oh no, the ideal is where the precedence is. And
anything that diverges from the ideal is less than perfect, imperfect, and thus to be looked down upon,
right? To be valued less, to not acquire the precedence.
Hilarious. So I think my initial response was something like, and again, the problem comes,
I have to keep backtracking, because I'm so excited that I lose my train of thought.
Imagine that we're talking to a being that is a sphere. And it's a sphere that lives in a space
in which there are no distinctions available in the space itself. In other words, there are no
heat gradients, there are no other central objects like stars, there are no magnetic gradients.
And so if we were talking to a being like this, how might we attempt to communicate the ideas of
forward and backward, right and left, up and down, even maybe before and after, if there's
nothing to distinguish the space, right? So this is an interesting question.
Okay, so now that I've posed that question, I have to come back to my previous thread.
The precedence lies not with the ideal, but with the experiencer, not with the abstraction,
which is a model in which we've evicted participation, sensation, relation, right? For the sake of
an ideal construct, which appears to be generally or universally the case. And this brings up the
problem of what we consider normal and abnormal, ordinary and non-ordinary, and all these similar
matters, right? And these judgments, I have a number of friends who are constantly at pains to
determine whether their behavior is normal or not, because they think, according to the common
custom, that if their behavior is not normal, then something's wrong with them, right? Because
there's only two sides, right and wrong, for the mind that makes abstractions and believes in them,
right? You're either correct or incorrect. That's right or wrong. It's good or bad. It's these bipolar,
mono-valued, mono-dimensional contrasts and conflicts, and there isn't anything else
to this mind that thinks this way. Now, of course, when I think about things, I like to think about
them in continuums, continua, right? So there's a spectrum from the most severe imaginable extreme
of A to the most severe imaginable extreme of B, which appears to be its opposite, but is probably
an aspect of a circle, one of the dimensions of which, right, the sort of what we get in the
continua is basically a semi-circle, right? It's a half-circle, but there's an underneath, and if
we expand the dimensions, there's this dimension, right? There's the third dimension where the
circle becomes a sphere, and there you can add additional dimensions beyond that, and we should.
So I tend to think in continua, but then I also add to that a layered array of topologies where
there are complex conjugates of qualities instead of yes or no, black or white, good or bad,
you know, desirable or undesirable. And in fact, even the ideas of desirable and undesirable
are deeply determined by what happens in the future, which is something we cannot ordinarily
conceive of. We can think of it, so I guess we can conceive of it in a way. What I mean when I say
we can't conceive of it is there are certain relatively ordinary predictions. If I drop this
glass on cement from a height greater than five inches, right, it may break. If I drop it from a
height of 17 feet, it will shatter, right? So there's certain kinds of predictions that we can make
that are relatively, obviously they are reliable, they are consistent, right? They are consistent
with our experience. But what we don't know is if I shatter this glass, what future consequences
will ensue other than the shattering? How will the shattering of this glass affect me?
How will it affect future situations and circumstances? All of these things are unknown to
us. And in order to determine that the shattering of the glass is the important event, we evict
all of the other repercussions or consequences as trivial. We decide, well, those are trivial
things because what I'm actually concerned about is what happens when I drop the glass.
But the future of the universe is what happens when we drop the glass. And certainly that's
inconceivable to us in the sense that it is impossible to predict or encompass the consequences
with our representational consciousness, our evaluative consciousness, our rational or logical
thought. All of these things, these are impossible things. Now it doesn't mean here's the big argument.
Are we in fact actually or potentially in possession of faculties that might allow us
to encompass the consequences much more completely or
effectively in terms of predicting futures? And let's face it, predicting futures is very
fucking important for every organism. If in the garden, if the blue jay or the sparrow
decides to move from one branch to another, it has to check very carefully. And it doesn't just
check. It's checking for predators, particularly raptors, because raptors are the most serious
predator around here for small birds. It's also checking for humans because humans are dangerous.
Humans can throw things or shoot things. Birds are aware of this, excuse me. So
the little birds have to check primarily for hawks and raptors, but they have to do something else.
They have to intuit whether or not it is safe to move from a protected position
to a less protected position right now. And when they are doing that, they are involved in
predictive cognition. Also, they have to imagine things. They have to use memory,
the memory of the fact of the common presence of predators coupled with
their proprioceptive condition in the moment, coupled with their history, their memory of
historical situations, coupled with their capacity to imagine going from this branch
to this protected branch to that less protected branch and the consequences and all of these
kinds of things. It's not entirely dissimilar to what a human has to do to successfully cross
a busy street. We have to make predictions. And so predicting things becomes fundamentally
central to survival for at least for complex organisms, but it's reasonable to imagine
that analogs or superlogs exist for less complex organisms, such as bacteria, viruses,
and other microorganisms, or even for organs in our body, which can be thought of,
and I think it's useful to at least imagine this as distinct animals or
organisms encompassed by my skin, my distinct self, as if within us there's a zoo.
And this is a very useful idea.
I've often remarked on the peculiar
and unexpected situation that
if I put my hand on my girlfriend's belly so that I can feel her belly,
presuming I have a girlfriend, and I begin to talk to her stomach, it will begin responding
almost immediately in a way that's loud enough that almost seems like her stomach is talking.
And I've demonstrated this more than 60 times with various girlfriends throughout my life,
and they find it amazing. I find the opposite thing amazing, that we don't think of our organs
as beings. We think like, well, I'm the being, right? We're putting the precedence on the unity,
not entirely unreasonable, but we should be able to inhabit the other position as well,
where we put the precedence on the elements that form the unity, and we attend them lovingly,
caringly. So again, the problem with the earth orbiting the sun is where do you put the precedence,
right? And the problem with a year is what has the most important precedence. So clearly,
for each of us, one of the frameworks that we use to understand time is how many years we've
experienced, right? From our birth to the anniversary of our birth in the calendar.
So many things I want to talk about. I wonder if I can reach them all.
So that's an individual year. That's a way of individualizing the year, but it's not the only
way. Some people could imagine the approximate date of their conception and go conception to
conception as the anniversary. But again, they'd mostly be using the regularized calendar, which
is a little weird. I'm not sure when the actual year should formally begin. It would be some
compromise between probably the solstices and the moon cycles. The moon cycles are the little
year and the solstices would be the big year, but it's not entirely clear on which one of the
solstices we should, which one we should call the beginning, if we put the precedence there.
In some cultures, particularly some Amerindian cultures and probably other indigenous cultures,
one of the things that demarcates age is not so much when one was born, but how many winters
one survived, because winters, lots of people died or suffered terribly during the winters.
So one's age might be expressed in winters survived, right? So the year would actually
essentially become whatever the beginning of winter, which is usually starts on a new moon,
the first winter moon. How many winter cycles of six or seven moons, I think?
Is it six or seven winter moons or six or seven summer summer moons? I can't recall.
Again, it depends on where you put the precedence.
But there are cycles in which, and the animals know the cycles, right? The humans don't determine
the cycles by counting moons. They determine the cycles by watching the moon and observing
the animals in plants. So the animals in plants determine, their behavior determines, if like,
for example, the raptors don't set up nests in the moon cycle in which they ordinarily set up nests,
this will be a 13-moon year, is one protocol or paradigm that is used,
particularly in Blackfoot culture. Then you get an extra moon cycle in that year.
So again, where's the precedence? The precedence in this case is to the raptor's mate
in the sixth moon or the specific moon in which they ordinarily mate. If they don't,
we have 13 moons this year instead of 12. That's just one example of there must be
100 different models or frameworks or paradigms that are used by humans and have been used
traditionally around the world. The Vedic calendar is probably lunar. The Jewish calendar is lunar.
It's unclear to me whether the Islamic calendar is ordinarily lunar, but I suspect it is.
Because lots of indigenous peoples, maybe most of them, have lunar calendars and the idea of
January or Saturday is meaningless to them, completely ridiculous.
So when does the year begin? It depends on where we put the precedence. And what's the
meaning of a cycle? Because surely it's a relatively recent idea. Well, this may not be true.
It's probable that there were other even ancient peoples who at least had the intuition
that the moon was going around something. I mean, excuse me, the moon, maybe the moon was going
around the earth, but the earth was circling something and probably the sun. Even though we
in our written histories presume that this was discovered at some relatively recent time,
it's unlikely to be true. It's conceivable, but it's unlikely. The fact is we have no records of the
ancient peoples. So today, in America we celebrate the, you know, we have what we call New Year's Eve,
which is the last day of the previous year. And apparently,
the first second after our clocks strike midnight is the beginning of a new year,
a year that we number as 2020. I certainly never expected to live this long,
and I also believed that we'd be living in a
peri-utopian future by now, at least in my youth, I believe that. But that's because I believed the
myth, the lethally deadly myth, that constant improvements in technology would free us from
war, poverty, environmental decimation, and the other plagues that humans have instigated here
on earth. None of those things took place. What took place instead was more or less the
establishing of a dystopia, or a layered array of dystopias, a feedback loop of, you know,
ever more complex dystopian processes, things like this.
Now, I had a conversation with a friend of mine before I began this video today,
and my initial intention was just to speak briefly about the problem of temporality and calendars.
You know, these days when I hear someone coughing, it's fairly disturbing, right?
I've always been aware, during flu season and cold season, that people who are just, you know,
coughing are spreading disease because we produce aerosols.
Clouds and plumes, we produce aerosols and plumes. Clouds of microscopic and macroscopic
particles that flow all over the place. Other people breathe them in, they get them in their eyes,
they get them in their nose, and they become sick. This is how primarily the flu has always
been spread. You can get it by touching things and then touching your eyes, mouth, nose,
touching one thing, then touching another thing, spreading it there, and then touching
that thing later, and then touching your eyes, or nose, or mouth, or food. But most commonly,
it's spread by aerosols. So, you know, I've always been aware that if someone's coughing,
like in the line in the store next to me, I get out of there. I don't want to get sick.
And I don't like to be enclosed in a vehicle, like one of the trains or, you know,
buses or whatever, with other people, because they're all, it's essentially a carnival of
contagions. Now, I'm not particularly germaphobic, but I don't like to get the flu, and I don't like
to get colds. It's a miserable experience, mostly. Though it does have some upsides as long as it
doesn't kill you, or fuck you up, injure you in some way. It has some upsides, right? It resets
certain features of your body. It's a little bit like having a war inside your body because your
immune system gets hyper-activated, and that changes all kinds of conditions and your metabolism,
and so on. The primary reason that we get achy and really tired when we get sick,
at least this is the story I've heard, the description I've heard from my molecular
biologist friend, is that our cells have to change. Many of our cells start producing
immune proteins, or certain classes of cells is the right way to say it,
and that's a lot of work and requires huge amounts of energy. So, that's why we get tired
and achy when we're sick. But these days, when I hear people coughing, I'm very concerned,
because I know that that could mean death, right, or permanent organ damage,
and I think it's not entirely unreasonable that some people are concerned about the vaccine.
There are reasons to have some concerns about the vaccine. It's not perfectly safe,
and what we mean by safety isn't particularly to individuals. It's a statistical idea of
safety, right? It's generally safe for most people, but COVID is primarily unsafe for a vastly larger
cohort, and will kill some percentage of that cohort outright. The vaccine could contribute to
someone's death, but it's unlikely to kill them outright. Probabilistically, the massive
danger is on the side of COVID, not the vaccine, at least for the moment. Though I agree that
if we're going to administer a medication to hundreds of millions of people, we need to be
eight times more careful than we usually are, not less careful, as we apparently have been,
whoever we is in this case. The medical establishment, researchers, medical infrastructure, and so on.
And also, doctors don't think carefully enough about this medication. It's a political,
an ideological decision. It's a religious decision, and the religion is something like
science is real, medicine works. The vaccine is safe by declaration,
because we're putting the precedents on the statistics rather than the individual, right?
And there's no one for whom the vaccine is contraindicated, essentially, or nearly no one,
right? Someone who's going to die anyway in the next couple of days, they don't need to have a vaccine,
but there's no differentiation, which there normally must be, in any medical
application or procedure, of the differences between different cohorts of people who are
certain to respond differently to the vaccine, some of which it must be contraindicated for.
Apparently, there's no one it's really contraindicated for, or nearly no one,
so that's ridiculous, and dangerous, and not scientific, and not proper medicine.
Again, the precedents problem, right? We have the idealization. The idealization is the vaccine is
safe and effective. Then we have the actual situation. Well, for each person, it may not be
safe, and it's going to be veryingly effective. Though it is apparently true that for nearly
everyone, those people who've been vaccinated and then caught COVID had vastly less severe responses
to the disease than they might otherwise have had. However, since, again, there's a continuum
from nearly no effect on this side to lethal effect on this side, and that continuum is
going to be applied to everyone, whether or not they are vaccinated.
There are certain people for whom the risks of vaccination outweigh the benefits, because
we would not know if those people would catch COVID and be asymptomatic and have no
significant lasting or even momentary effects. So, it's a weird problem, right? It's a problem
of where we put the precedents, and it's a problem of idealization versus actual significant
idealization versus
local circumstances. Circumstances local to individuals in specific cohorts.
We have noticed, for example, that there are some cohorts that really don't appear to be suffering
dramatic infection rates. Africa is one of them. It's confusing. We don't know why.
But clearly, and there are other cases where everybody got terribly sick,
and this is the difference between idealizations and what's actually going on in the world,
right? It's the difference between the idea of orientation and the behavior of orienteering,
right? So, I had lots of different ideas about what to talk about today,
but before I began my video, and I wanted to make one, so I'm giving up some meditation time
this afternoon to make my video instead. I was talking with my friend Jesse,
and she was telling me that she'd gotten a book
that she'd been looking for for a long time because she was very interested in it, and like me,
Jesse has an interest in eccentric or exotic books, and some ancient books, too,
and apparently there's this old Greek manual of dream interpretation
called the Oniracritica, if I've got that right, which literally means
dream analysis, right? Oniro is a word particle that refers to dreaming,
so the Oniric cycle is the cycle in our day when our body expects to be dreaming,
and an Oniranaut is a dream traveler, and of course, critica probably means something like
analysis or judgment. In any case, like many ancient books of its kind, the Oniracritica
is completely useless. It's simply a litany of, if you dream about this, it means that.
A dream of a toad means you will find a tasty peach later that day on a tree,
or whatever, however it works out, right? Now, of course, it's impossible that these
these dictionaries of correspondences
are useful, and this is why dream dictionaries are mostly garbage,
because they have idealized the symbolism of dreaming.
When, to understand the language of symbolism and dreams, you have to include the context of
the person, their history, what's recently been going on with them, your insight about their psyche
and their character and so on, and all kinds of things, and one can learn to interpret the
language of dreams with some degree of useful efficacy or, again, a degree, right? Accuracy,
but the waking mind is famously incapable of understanding the nature of the dreaming experience.
In fact, it's almost directly opposed to it. It's diametrically opposed largely, and particularly
verbal and conceptual thought are not like what happens in dreaming. So, when the waking mind
gets a hold of a description of a dream, which has already been processed by the waking mind,
or we'd not be getting a description, right? Because a dream is not a description in the
same way a kiss is not a description. I challenge you to describe a kiss, right? You're going to
capture nearly nothing of that experience, or describe the experience of eating delicious food
or terrible food, right? You know, you can encompass a little portion of the experience,
but you can't communicate the flavors very well. Even the relatively sophisticated language
of wine tasting is still nothing like tasting wine, right? You know, the tail and the this
and the that, the foretaste, aftertaste, whatever. Nothing like the actual experience of tasting
the wine. You can't eat descriptions, right? You can't taste or kiss words. So,
it is however possible to develop the extremely nuanced and profound skill of interpreting someone's
dream, though it requires all kinds of little subskills that have nothing to do with normalization.
And these little dictionaries of correspondences that were produced and have been produced and are
still produced for thousands of years, they tell us something not so much about dreaming,
but about the left hemisphere or the verbal conceptual mind or
the problem of representational cognition, where literally we become confused between the
facticity of a statement and the facticity of direct experience. These two truth values
get collapsed into one, right? So that now, because I have written, if you dream of a frog,
you will find a valuable coin soon, right? Because I have written this, and it is certainly true
that I have formed or emitted these words,
that becomes confused with the factual truth
of the prediction.
So the truth, and this is a problem we've seen in
in government and in science and medicine and all kinds of things, although less so
in any science we're testing, and the reproduction of results is important.
But yes, our last president apparently just believed that because he said something,
it therefore must be true. And this is what's going on. What we see in these
dictionaries of correspondences are the beginnings in the continuum of the development
of representational cognition. There are landmarks, right? There are milestones.
And the onset of the capacity to produce these compendiums of correspondences
is portents, right? If the antelope turns left in the setting sun, hunting will be good tomorrow.
If the mouse is timid, your enemies will flee, right? These correspondences
demonstrate something about the strange continuum of the onset of, or the intensification of,
the power of representational cognition over other faculties that more or less resemble dreaming.
And it's very clear that our ancient ancestors, our very ancient ancestors,
were, they were capable of predicting and they were capable of having somewhat formalized thought.
But primarily they were dreaming. They were dreaming while awake. And over time,
you know, our species ran face first into a brick wall of the possibilities of representational
cognition as embodied in linguistic vocalization first and writing later. And that wall has been
grinding us into hamburger for thousands of years and the world along with it. And if we don't discover
and realize the problems of these issues, we will kill everything. Everything on earth will die.
And people say, oh, no, the humans aren't a big deal. They're wrong. They're dead wrong about
that idea, right? Well, the earth will survive. They don't fucking know that. This is again,
the linguistic fucking mind making up bullshit statements and thinking because it can say things,
they must be true, right? The earth is very fucking delicate. It's delicate enough that literally,
and I saw this coming 30 years ago, a single human being, one person can formulate a threat
significant enough to obliterate life on earth and can table that threat against the entire world
or simply enact it. And I know this because with the technologies that exist today, like,
that was never possible, say, 500 years ago, very unlikely to have been possible 300 years ago,
not so likely 100 years ago. As of about 50 years ago, it began to become possible.
Within the past 20 years, it's fully possible. And the onset of specific technologies,
which I'll not hear name, makes it not only possible, but likely in the modern time.
And by the way, there are aspects of representational cognition
that not only, okay, how to put this, part of the reason this is so dangerous,
let me come back to that danger in a moment. I'll just put a bookmark in the danger.
These little booklets of, you know, if you dream this, it means that will happen and so on, or
portents or similar kinds of things. These are the symptoms of the growing dominant,
the growing dominance of representational cognition as enacted in language and writing.
And there are hallmarks that you can see occurring if you look back in history. And one of the first
people that I've ever encountered who remarked on this was Julian Jaynes in his dare I say seminal
work, which contains many mistakes, but is nonetheless absolutely brilliantly imperative
and urgent. The origin of consciousness in the breakdown of the bicameral mind, he was on to
something really provocative and profound about the evolution of human consciousness. And there
are not many books about this. I think another one is The Discovery of the Mind by Bruno Snell.
There are one or two others that don't immediately come to mind, but
yeah, I'll not chase the author names at the moment. So the emergence of Bibles, skybooks,
books that tell you what everything is and what it is for and what will happen if you believe
this book and what will happen if you don't believe this book. That's another one of the
hallmarks that we're still suffering the catastrophic after effects of the emergence and the promulgation
of such books. These books are diseases. I'm not saying there are no holy beings
or that there's nothing metaphysical about human life. I'm saying that books that declare
what you must believe about such matters in incredibly crude ways that will destroy whole
civilizations are poisonous. They're deadly. In fact, one could argue that nothing other than
science and technology in the past hundred years, which we should look very carefully at,
has equaled the destructive power of these books. They have ruined lives and minds and hearts,
civilizations for thousands of years and will continue to do so far into the future.
And there are various other kinds of books that are just as deadly. So
in Snow Crash, there was the the science fiction novel Snow Crash by Neil Stephenson, I think.
There was the idea of a terrible book called a Nam Shub that obliterated
the whole, like, was deadly enough that anyone who saw it would be destroyed.
I actually don't know the story of the Nam Shub very clearly. There was another book very recently
that was really good. I don't know if I can recall the title of it, though, or the author.
In this book, a cult used psychography to figure out
how to control individual people, how to perfectly control them with language,
and one particularly unusual young woman.
I know who this belongs to. One unusual young woman
is resistant to, is capable of resisting this force, but
develops not just a word so much, but an idea and certain capacities in language
that cause humans to go insane and just kill everything around each other.
And it spreads contagiously. I think the I think the name of the book is Lexicon.
Yeah. And it was an interesting science fiction novel.
But very profoundly important in the age of psychography, social media, Facebook, Twitter,
Instagram, and so on, where we're being literally psychographized electronically on purpose
by corporations that intend to dominate and market to and otherwise manipulate us.
I did. Is it yours? I was looking for who it belongs to. I thought it might be my friend.
Oh, I'm so sorry. Well, if I see the other one, I'll find you. Okay. Well, if I see it,
I'll, I'll pick it up and find you. My name is Darren. Nice to meet you, Chan.
I'm glad that I was able to return your glove to you.
Yeah. No, I'm still talking to you. So nice to meet you, though. Okay. If I find it, I'll come get you.
It's so wonderful to have a joyful moment with another human being and so refreshing and so
different from this rather didactic, you know, lecture that I've been giving.
All right, the danger. I have to reorganize my thoughts now because
it's complicated.
Actually, what just happened is the kind of mind that I was embodying and enacting
is radically different from the form of mind that immediately replaced it when I began to
relate with directly with another human being, especially with a sense of kindness and joy.
That's nothing like the mind with which I lecture or with which I explore ideas.
Okay, now I've just found her other glove. So this is going to be even more distracting.
Now, hey, man, good to see you. And to you. Yeah, we'll talk soon.
No, I'm just making a video. I'm making a video, so I'll catch up with you.
That's my friend, Brian. He's really awesome. So again, you know, I have the same problem,
right? We think, oh, a mind is this kind of thing. No, it's not any kind of thing. A mind
depends on what we're doing with it. It's like having a hand, or it's like having many kinds
of hands, or even more like having many kinds of possible wings and many kinds of eyes within
those wings that see in different ways as those wings learn to fly. And so most of what a mind
can be, we will never experience in our modern existence. There's an old quote from Arthur C.
Clark that any form of sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable from magic,
and there's some useful truth in that quote, though I'm not a big fan of tropes
and aphorisms. I write them sometimes. I just realize that they're dangerous. They're almost
immediately ironic. So I re-quoted him and said, any form of sufficiently advanced ignorance is
indistinguishable from modernity. Now, that's a very cynical thing to say. What I'm trying to get at
is we are born with the seeds of thousands of faculties, faculties that can in fact see into
the past and the future in ways that have nothing to do with logical thought. We can learn to be
telepathic. We can speak inside each other's minds. We can speak inside each other's souls.
We can explore other bodies. We can inhabit the bodies of animals and plants and living places.
All of these things and many thousands more are available to us, but our ideas and our idealizations
and the models and concepts to which we are subjected that we imagine to liberate us from
superstition are actually at the same time cripplingly prescriptive of
terrible impoverishments that we will live with most of our lives.
Hi, Shan. Here's your other glove. I'm so happy to be able to return it to you and it's wonderful
to meet you. Have a wonderful new year. I hope perhaps I'll see you again sometime.
Okay, bye-bye for now.
She's awesome.
So that's funny. I wonder which hand I brought her first. The left or the right, it matters.
Yeah, sidedness in humans is very important, but actually
nearly all organisms are bilaterally symmetrical and the two sides differ in their way of being in
the world. And this is the important thing or not the, but this is a very important thing to
understand about the nature of being alive. So we have all these faculties, most of which we will
never even taste. And this is part of why we have these stories like fantasy novels and science fiction
in which there is magic and other intelligences and why we have skybooks, which in a sense could
be understood as early versions of science fiction. They are speculations and weirdly normative
declarations about the nature of the most important things. What is the universe for?
What is it doing? What does it mean to be alive? What is light? What is time? Why is there a world?
Why are we born? What is death? What happens after death? What happens before life? All of these
questions, right? But unfortunately, the left hemisphere, the least equipped aspect, and it's
not just the left hemisphere, right? Obviously, the hemispheres always work together in people who,
you know, have both of them, but there are situations in which certain aspects of one hemisphere
are more active than certain aspects of the other or are relatively dominant, right?
Certain aspects of my hemispheric laterality, the difference between the faculties and my two
hemispheres light up when I'm lecturing as I am now. And you can see the complete change that
overcomes me when instead I'm relating with Jan about her glove, right? And that's a radical
transformation of the moment of what we might call the moment of lateralization behavior
or inaction. And it's not just the brain. This is the another one of the idealizations. All of
your faculties are in your brain. Bullshit! The brain is nothing without a body. There's no such
thing as a brain in a box. And the idea of a brain in the box is how we got computers, which are
really fucking dangerous for human beings to have, because we don't have the intelligence that's
capable of guiding our technological development in a way that produces insight and intelligence
rather than disaster and environmental catastrophe, war, and disease. So
the onset of the dominance of what I'll call what I like to call representational cognition,
which I associate with particular modes of largely left hemispheric dominance, activity,
inaction, the story over time of the development of the relationship between humans and
representational cognition, language, and its bizarre effect on us. It's literally like we
ran into something like lexicon. We ran face first into a weird sort of coding that would not only
change the nature of the animal we could become, and part of this had to do with our discovery
of the capacity to make tools with our hands, right? Using our hands changed how we would think
and what we would become. And let's see. So literally it was almost like we ran into a meat
grinder, and what it kept grinding out was conceptual formulas, models,
prescriptions, and these weird little books, like the dream books. The dream books are
indicative of a hallmark in that process, an ancient hallmark, where the left hemispheric
aspects, the developing dominance of verbal conceptual cognition, representational cognition,
just as we, the processes that we're developing in that time,
expressed as symptoms of where we are in that process, things like these little dictionaries
of portent correspondences, what we call spells, hilarious irony there,
dream dictionaries, and so on. And that led eventually to the bizarre and dangerous declaration,
and this is a very important aspect of pseudo-left hemispheric dominance, right? It doesn't ask
questions, it declares, and it doesn't care about verity. If it can say it, it is the truth,
and if you don't believe that truth, it will destroy everything. This is the really weird
aspect of the parts of our minds and societies that echo them. See, at least in our bodies,
we have a right hemisphere that interrupts some of this shit and corrects it. You can see that
happening when I encountered my friend Jan. You can see the sudden transformation of my
consciousness, which is a beautiful thing to see, and a wonderful feeling. But our societies don't
have any corrective right hemisphere. The left hemisphere just keeps saying over and over again,
you will do the thing, you will do the function, or I will kill everything, right? And that's kind
of how the left hemisphere is, it's disembodied. That's why we have these models of idealization
of time, right? It doesn't care about nature, the moon, or any of these things. In fact, it doesn't
care about anything except its own models. And so there's this property of this kind of consciousness
that emerges particularly in certain forms of schizophrenia. And when people are triggered
to do violence, there's this property of, I will kill everything, you know? One of my schizophrenic
friends has taught me very deeply about this property, and when this aspect of his consciousness
is triggered, which he's fully capable of resisting, thankfully, the goal becomes just to kill everything,
destroy everything. If the things don't do what I say they should do, all of them should die.
This is a simple statement of this aspect's character. And strangely enough, there's a property
in dreaming. There's an aspect of the interaction between the waking and the dreaming mind that I
call the dream assassin, that is its function is to destroy the dream world. And the way that it does
that is by instigating a significant conflict or violence or terror. And when it does that,
the adrenaline collapses the dream manifold and we wake up. Now, obviously, the character in the
dream that catalyzes that process, the sort of the dream hit man, that character collapses when
the dream manifold collapses. But what if that character crossed over into our waking mind?
And now, this character wants omnipotence. And since over here, it is catastrophically impotent,
and no one acknowledges its authority, it wants to kill everything, everyone. The whole world
should be destroyed. The universe should be destroyed. The destruction of the universe should
itself be destroyed, right? It's an infinitely recursive necessity of obliteration, of a completely
disembodied process that is uncorrectable once it becomes dominantly established in a people
or a single mind. So this is part of the great danger, though there are many others. And let's
see here, I've been talking for an hour. You know, my friend asked me earlier, do you think
the transformation from oral traditions to written traditions was part of the problem?
And sure, it is part of the problem, but it's also more like part of the symptom, right?
Now instead of song, we'll have speech. And now instead of speech, which is still filled with
music, we'll have writing, which there's no music, unless you are subvocalizing.
And then from that, we'll go to code, in which there's no language, there's no music, there's
just numbers. And this is a fundamental problem for life on earth. The humans have to resolve these
matters. We have to learn to distinguish between the kind of truth, the facticity of spoken words,
the words I am speaking now are the words I am speaking. That is true, right? That kind of truth,
and the truth of meaning, embodied in one of the paradoxes that was probably not first produced
by Bertrand Russell. Oh wow, what just happened there?
Surely someone besides Russell formulated this before he did.
But many of us are familiar with the paradox. This statement is false.
Now one of the problems with that statement, the first thing we should notice about it, I think,
and there's a more complex thing that I'll introduce shortly, is that
the statement has no content. And a statement that has no content cannot have truth value.
It has to have null value, right? The value of the statement, in terms of being true or false,
is null. The same way that
I didn't see the hawk or owl take the prey, but I saw it strike the tree.
It was kind of magical. I saw it strike the tree, and then it disappeared.
I don't know how it did that. It's mysterious and magical.
So the first thing we should notice is that the statement has no meaning. Therefore,
it cannot be either true or false. It must be null. If we declare that our goal is determined
whether it is true or false, we have to say, no, it is neither. It's a null statement. It's a
meaningless statement. However, there's a more important thing to understand, which is kind of
paradoxical if you examine it very deeply. No statement shall promote itself to the order
of minds, which are necessary to interpret statements. And that's what this statement is doing
by self-reference. There's more complex statements of this principle. No statement shall by self-reference
or other means promote itself to the function of minds, which are necessary to interpret
statements, but simply stated, no statement is a mind. And statements that propose or pretend to be
minds should be very carefully dismissed. Now, the irony is that my formulation of the antidote,
in a sense, because it is universal, it does what it's telling us statements shouldn't do.
But that's a very complex feature. And it's okay if it does that as long as it eliminates the problem
along with itself, like the dream assassin eliminates itself along with the dream. Although
it's a really weird comparison that I wasn't expecting to make. So for now, as it is getting dark,
and New Year's Eve in the Western world anyway, is upon us, and we're about to enter
a seemingly impossible future. I think I will wind up my video.
We can solve these problems if we become intuitively, emotionally, and intellectually
aware of them. In order to solve them, we have to realize their natures and origins and characters.
As we do this, the problems do get solved. When I finally understood what the dream
assassin was doing in my dreaming life, suddenly it transformed and I was able to overcome it.
Now, that isn't necessarily a good thing because in my dreaming life, that being or that function
embodied as a being in my dreams serves a very important purpose. So I don't want to make that
purpose go away, but I do want to understand its nature, why it is attacking me, my dream, and
resolve that conflict. So what is required isn't just that we intellectually understand some of
the things that I've said. We have to come to realize them in terms of their relationship with
our own natures as human beings, as individuals, as collectives and cohorts and pods. We have to
understand their effect on our awareness and how to free and retrieve some of the faculties
that are otherwise completely inhibited, destroyed, or impaired by our relationships,
our common and habitual relationships with language, concepts, and representational cognition.
And we can learn so much from the ancient books and learning about the strange hallmarks and
landmarks and milestones of the development of these problems when we see things like
compendiums of, you know, dictionaries of dream symbols, a toad means it will rain, you know,
blah blah blah blah. Those books aren't particularly useful for what they are,
what they pretend to be, but they are profoundly useful in helping us to understand the history
of the development of the predicament we find ourselves in as moderns. Thank you for joining me.
I hope you have a, I wish you all blessings and joyful success in all the aspects of your life
and thought in the coming year and the coming years and even in our history. Thank you for joining
me. Bye-bye for now.
