So we're returning from part four. We've just been talking about the rattlesnakes. We're
returning four part, two part four. I just want to mention something that occurred to
me. It's almost as if there's an intergenerational transfer between the rattlesnakes and they
transfer the rattle to their children. But then if the agreement is broken, that transfer
doesn't, it stops happening. This is just in my mind.
Something happens with the body because, I mean, maybe it's just like if I just follow
in natural selection, there's just always a variety of bodies and you may or may not
be born without the little nub to make your rattle work or your tail might be angled.
I mean, what they're seeing now in those two populations, the Mojave and the Manitoba
Prairie Rattlesnake, are what they would now consider mutations.
Of course, yes.
Yeah.
All right.
So here we turn to Madge and Harvard.
Yeah.
Okay.
Yeah. So Madge Walters, oh, she had a photo of her. I've never seen her. I would like
to see her. In my stories earlier, I mentioned Marlene Walters, I think, who was on the
Blackfeet Tribal Business Council, who I was working with, with the Land Consolidation
Act. I know sometimes people get like, wouldn't that the, wouldn't that the council you're
working with? No, no. Madge Walters is a different Walters than Marlene. There is a family of
people on the Blackfeet Reservation named Walters that are not related to her. I don't
know where they got their Walter name, but it wasn't through Madge. Madge was in San
Francisco. She's very wealthy, or at least in Blackfeet term she was, because she was
able to use those three young people to buy a lot of things. And she was trying to overcome
her cancer. She was fully, like, interested. Like, she didn't want just the bundles she
wanted to store. She wanted as much as she could understand. She was trying to use these
things to help herself. Wow. And she died. But when she died, she had a considerable collection
of Blackfeet bundles and other individual sacred items and stuff. A whole, like, I mean,
I had a big, a thick pile of correspondence between her and the three young people out
here that went into this. I'm looking at a letter from her. Yeah. In which the final
paragraph is she's asking someone about artifacts or they're asking her and the final paragraph
is I do not wonder that you feel you cannot pay $600 for the blood bundle. I have never
yet seen one that I think would be worth that amount. $600. My goodness, dude. That's ridiculous.
Okay, to put that in perspective, when I transferred into to be a beaver man, I was poor. And I
still, I took a whole year. My wife and I, well, about eight months. And everything we
could get we put it put away. And we bought things and we put away money and we bought
things to give way to the people that would come to our transfer. And our family members
came forward. Well, I should say hers, not mine. My wife's uncle came forward and gave
like, you know, gave me like 1000 bucks. We should bear in mind, though, that in 1947,
that's approximately equivalent to $8,000 today. Okay, I think I paid about equivalent
to about 40 to 50,000 today. I paid enough for an undergraduate education to get the
beaver bundle transferred to me. Okay. And that's what people normally pay to enter into
like one of the bigger bundles or sacred societies here. Sometimes like it's not always like
it's not all at once. Like we probably put 20,000 into our original transfer. But then
we were hosting the ceremonies in Waterton Park. We had to buy up, you know, $2,000 TP.
We had to haul everything out there to do our ceremonies, feed everybody. Like in the
time that I was running those ceremonies, I definitely spent $40,000 to $50,000 on ceremony
stuff with our bundle to do, you know, and that's all the training. Like when you have
the bundle, that's your training time. When you get rid of it, when you transfer it on,
then there's kind of a relaxed period. Most times for beaver bundles, there's no relax.
Like the other bundles in the system, usually we have them, maybe three, four years, transfer
them, another caretaker, and you get a break while that next caretaker is taking care of
them. And the one after that will come approach you as an elder to teach them. And then you
have to get back into actual working with it and that kind of thing. And as an elder,
I mean, even though you're making, like it's all this stuff is sacrifice stuff. And you're
sacrificing a lot. And that's because, you know, you're learning a lot and you're getting a lot of
social cache with it as well, you know. But it's a huge responsibility to be the keeper
of a living library. Yeah. Huge. It's in me. And that's, you know, that's a thing. Like it's not
written down. Yes. You know, you become the living library. Yes. And you pay for that.
But that's what, I mean, it makes you a resource. It's an investment in a way, you know,
because, because you do, you do like, like that's how the elders are ultimately like
taken care of, you know, they don't got work their whole lives because they got like,
this isn't the Western system. There's no fucking, there's no fucking retirement.
And so it provides a way for the elders to be taken care of
because they have this role and the role is not merely valuable monetarily, there's reverence
for the role. Oh, yeah. Yeah. So Harvard and match. Okay, so match.
She died. She died with a considerable Blackfoot collection,
all of which her daughter sold to the Denver Art Museum.
Now the Denver Art Museum comes in possession. I mean, they paid, I don't know what they paid for it.
I probably got the paperwork on it. Mahoney does anyway, my wife, Max's wife.
Mahoney has the paperwork for it in our records. What the Denver Art Museum paid for it because
I have all that shit. I got everything. But basically they've museums
that try to create ethnographic collections are basically most, most of the, or at least at that
time. Today's a weird thing because museums are just trying to salvage themselves. And it's not
going to happen. But in those times, when, when, when, when Mad Walter passed on, this would have been
like probably the 1950s. I think if I remember correct.
The museums were still like,
if they, if they had ethnographic collections, they wanted a good representation of each culture.
What they got from Mad Walter's was five representations of Blackfoot culture
because they had five or more of everything. Oh my gosh. She had so much stuff, dude.
And so Denver Art Museum started selling it and trading. They were like, okay,
we got a Blackfoot, Beaver Bundle, Thunder Pipe, Horns Pipe Bundle, Moto Peek Society Bundle,
so the Smithsonian, we're looking at, you got a Klamath this and a Calipi of that and, you know,
that we don't have, you know, to make our work, our collection work complete. Let's do a trade.
So Mad Walter's collection went all over the fucking place to all the major museums. Denver
Art Museum kept a core, their little Noah's Ark of Blackfoot culture, and then everything they
didn't need it as second version of, they sent everywhere else. So the Beaver Bundle that I
found in the Peabody Museum in Harvard was one of these from Mad Walter's. Harvard didn't have
that piece to their collection yet. So they had got it from the Mad Walter's collection
at Denver Art Museum, and they got it for something like $350. But Magic got it for, I think, $50.
Sure. Yeah. And you can see here a kind of a terrifying trend
that's just going to continue where the Indigenous people are so poor
that they're selling their sacred history to the Colonials for a pittance.
Well, that was happened. That's not anymore. Yes. And I have to kind of explain this too,
because when I say it's like 1950, in the United States that 1940s and 1950s, when Mad
Walter's came up here was 1940, early 1940s. And she kept collecting into the 1950s, and then she
died. And then it went to Denver Art Museum, and then from there it dispersed everywhere else.
Now, when I'm talking about the 1940s and 50s in Canada, it's a different situation than in the
United States with Indians and stuff. All right. In the United States, in 1924,
there was something called the Indian Reorganization Act, a national policy that went through,
that drew an end to the era supposedly of forced assimilation.
And this said, you can keep your culture now. We want diversity here in the United States.
You can keep your culture. We're going to remove the residential schools
from your reserves. We are going to remove the federal Indian agents from your reserves.
We are going to let you make your own band councils to control your communities.
We are going to let you control your own schools and all that stuff. And you can leave your reserve
and participate in the national economy if you want. And in fact, we will offer you incentive and
move you with, you know, we'll help you get established in either San Francisco or Chicago.
My grandma went to Chicago. But this was in 1924 in the United States. The same kind of federal
legislation did not happen here in Canada until 1968. So 1970s was the big time of change here,
1960s, 70s, where like the language was lost. I mean, that happened in the 20s, 30s in the States
with most of the tribes through the Indian Reorganization Act. Again, it's the economic incentive,
or the economic incentive. You can come off reserve and make some money.
Yeah, if you want to come live in the city.
Yeah, come live in the city. And you got to learn English.
That happened in the 20s there. It happened in the 60s here. So it's a different timeline.
So when Swensunder brought Madge from Montana into Alberta, he is bringing her
into a world that was three, four decades late from what she's used to.
I see, yeah. I mean, for her, it's a treasure trove, but it's a terrifying situation
for the indigenous people. Yeah, a lot of shit was lost to her. And these young guys,
they didn't even know what they're selling. No, and they didn't give a fuck.
They'd want some whiskey or whatever. I'm guessing.
Well, those guys, they were just trying to get, but like, if you watch like a really good,
if you want to look at some, go to the, what is it, the fucking Canadian Film Board
website and watch Circle of the Sun and then Standing Alone and then the last roundup.
And these are three different films, bio documentaries on the late Pete Standing Alone
who made the first film, Circle of the Sun, when he was about 25.
And then the second film, Standing Alone, when he was about 50.
And then the last roundup when he was about 75. And you'll see when he's 25 years old,
he thinks Sundance, he thinks all the, all the ceremonies stuff is just for the old people.
He doesn't think it's for him. He thinks it's for the old people and he thinks it's going away.
And the whole documentary is about how it's going away. Like, oh, this is, this is, this
gone, right? This is the last of this fucking thing. The whole way of life is going away.
Supposedly, 25 years later, he's become in the elder.
Or he's in the society. He's in the, he's in the core of the society. He's 25 years later and stuff.
He's living it. His parents have died and ricocheted him into a situation where he
suddenly respects what this tradition has to offer. His parents died on the highway.
And, you know, 25 years after that, he's, he's the elder, elder of the horns. Like,
he's one of the top two elders and they do, they do the third film. Narciss did that film.
But, and then I interviewed him at the, we had a private screening of the last roundup,
his third film at Red Cross College with the, with the, with the guys from the Canadian Film Board.
And they asked it just like three or four of us to, to give him questions.
And I asked him, because he was 80 years old at the time and, and he was really
like in good physical standing, you know, like, like he was still like,
like his mind was all there. His body was still, you know, pretty good. Like he wasn't
like he was standing straight and walking good and he was healthy and skinny and all that shit.
So I told him, Pete, my question, what's your secret?
You know, you're 80 years old, you look so good.
Girl still like you. What's up? How'd you get that way? He said there's three secrets.
So first of all, you know, you're, you're only human and every once in a while
you got to let yourself indulge.
He was talking specifically about beer.
You know, nothing at the door. I just standing up.
Um, he's like, you can get a, you can buy a case of beer
once a week and get hammered, get really drunk and enjoy yourself.
And there's nothing wrong with that, but you don't do it every day.
Listen, number two, you got to change wives every, you know, five, six years.
He had, he had changed wives several times in his lifetime. And he kind of jokingly said,
he kind of jokingly said, I've been with Betty now more than 10 years.
I think this is the end.
It was, but number three,
stick with the young people.
Don't worry about the old people. They're going out.
Forget about those guys. Stick with the young people.
And that was something that I know was not bullshit at all that he learned from his horses
because he'd expressed it to me in other ways many times.
But he's basically like, if I want to, if I want to work on something new,
I don't work with my old horses.
You know, I raised the young horses into it.
Yeah.
All right. So we were going on a journey to learn something about Harvard.
Well, we learned about, we learned about Madge Walters a little bit.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Harvard that I want to get back to.
That's the, that's the core story.
So the beaver bundle that was on the accessions list that I received when I went to Harvard
the first time
after they kind of like gave me the, they tried to shake me off.
Right.
So you're going to have to book months in advance and this kind of thing.
They do research, blah, blah, blah.
And I'd call their bluff and they're like, okay, come down.
And then they showed me the list that they had of the, what they had in their
collections that were Blackfoot.
And a beaver bundle was high up on the list, like second, second to human remains,
which they thought we would go after that's not Blackfoot protocol.
Like we don't, we just deal with living.
The bundles we consider still be living.
Not the, not the dead.
Yes.
So I went straight after the bundle that day looking at the accessions records,
taking my notes, all that stuff.
And then I went through all their other shit and I looked at everything that they had that
day. I just spent the whole day going through their accessions records on everything they had,
figured out how they got it, where they got it, how much they paid, what they did, you know,
how everything that, you know, that I could from everything that they had, I had at that point.
So I went home with that information.
I was going to enter it into my database that I'm given to the tribe.
And that night, I got a call from George,
what's his last name?
Horse Capture.
He's not Blackfoot.
Where is he from?
Try to remember.
It's from another tribe in Montana.
I want to say he's Grovant, but I'm not sure.
George Horse Capture.
This is the Smithsonian's Indian.
And George calls me and says, who the fuck are you, basically,
not in too much of a different tone than that, you know, like, hey, we got a letter from you
at the Smithsonian. I see you've got, you know, I see you've got real old person's
permission and all of this, but I don't know who you are.
I don't know what you think you're doing.
I think you're probably disempowering the Blackfoot community doing what you're doing.
I don't think I'm going to send you any of the Smithsonian's data.
I think you can fuck off.
This is basically George Horse Capture's message to me.
So I went over to my advisor at the University of Massachusetts and told him,
I got this weird phone call from George Horse Capture.
This is what he said to me.
I get it, you know, he's like, yeah, I get it too.
What do I do about it?
I said, I don't know.
Just leave it for now.
I guess I'm not getting Smithsonian stuff or whatever.
Right.
So it's kind of left it.
A couple of days later, I get another phone call.
And this is from Joyce Spoonhunter.
So Joyce Spoonhunter is the first cousin of Marlene Bearwalters, who was the Tribal Council
member who I was working most closely with on the Blackfeet Tribal Business Council previously.
So this is her first cousin.
And Joyce calls me, Joyce is the person on the Federal Register
for the Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act.
And that act just happened to come out like that year.
It's 1995.
That act was signed.
I mean, I guess it was written in 1990, but it was only signed by George Bush in 1995.
And I didn't even know shit about it.
I mean, I kind of understood about repatriation stuff a little bit from the literature my mentor
had shown me.
But I didn't know about NAGPRA, the Native American Graves Protection Repatriation Act.
I didn't know about repatriations with museums.
All I thought was that I was putting together a guide of where the shit was in the world
so that people could find stuff to look at, to learn.
So Joyce calls me up and she's the person who's listed on the Federal Register.
And she was trained by George Horse Capture at the Smithsonian,
the guy who had called me a few days earlier.
And so she calls me up and she's upset.
She's mad.
She's like, I don't know what you think you're doing, but you're doing my job.
I'm the person on the Federal Register for Repatriation.
I'm supposed to be collecting the inventories for our tribe.
And I'm hearing from all these museums that they're getting this inquiry from you.
Who are you?
What's going on?
So I told her, hey, I was on the phone with her, but hey, man, I'm not trying to step on
any of these feet or anything.
I was working with Earl and Marlene and just trying to pull in inventories from these
museums and just trying to try to pull in inventories from these museums.
I don't know anything about this dag press stuff, but let me tell you something like
within walking distance from me, there's a beaver bundle at Harvard's Museum.
I just was in their accessions the other day.
I'll send you all my information about it.
But they have a beaver bundle right here.
And she did a whole 180 on me like in a heartbeat and was like,
do you think you can go over there and start negotiating to bring it home?
And I was like, yep, I think that's it.
Yeah, totally, right?
So Joyce Spoonhunter invited me into repatriation.
She was the lead for the Blackfeet Nation on repatriation.
She's the only person listed on the Federal Register for it.
And she's the one that said, Ryan, can you go negotiate this?
So I did.
I contacted Harvard.
I said, I'm interested in coming to have a meeting talking about bringing that beaver
bundle out of the museum back to the community.
I'm representing the community.
And they said, well, we have this new repatriation liaison called Emery-Victor Scout.
Emery-Victor Howe, sorry, Emery-Victor Howe, and she'll help you.
So Emery gets in contact with me to schedule a meeting, and she is very, very French,
like overwhelmingly French accent.
And I don't know, dude, I was probably 23, 24, dealing with dealing with a middle-aged
French academic working at Harvard.
And I know what the fuck to do.
So I bought two bottles of wine from the Willamette Valley where I grew up in Oregon.
Really good wine.
Really good shit.
And when I went to Harvard to meet with Emery, I brought this wine.
As a gift.
And she was like, Ryan, do you buy me this one because I'm French?
No, are you French?
I didn't even know.
Somehow or another, I won Emery's heart.
I think it, I don't know.
I feel like it was kind of through the wine thing.
But that was just a gateway.
I think I would have won her anyway.
I won her heart, like really won her heart, like she was in love with me.
She was married.
But she loved me.
And right away, she was like, okay, we have to be very careful.
This means that they're going to try to stop this repatriation.
She started fucking coaching me, dude.
This is where they're gonna, this is the angle in the law that they're gonna use against you.
You have to make sure you craft your argument against this
and against this.
And she fucking taught me how to craft a repatriation claim to beat Harvard.
Wow.
And it was, it was beautiful.
Yeah, and, you know, and they had to go through with it.
Yeah, I mean, this is where Harvard School of Law is.
It didn't put her in good terms with the museum.
Of course.
Yeah.
Not surprising.
And they didn't know the full extent of like how she'd help me either, you know.
Right.
They just thought she was the go-between, but she was really,
like, I would give her, okay, this draft and she'd be like, oh, look out for that sentence.
They're gonna pick that apart, you know.
And she really, she really coached me to help beat,
so where I could fight every other museum after that without a problem, you know.
Yeah.
There was a transfer there.
There was.
Right.
She transferred you the power to fight museums in a way.
She did.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Can you hold that thought?
Yep.
Okay, I'll be back as soon as the processing is done.
