Hello everyone. Thank you for joining me. I'm, as usual, out walking in the botanical
gardens this afternoon saying hello to many plants and animals that I love and some of
whom I have a close relationship with. And one of the things that's interesting about
that is that the news gets around in a way us moderns might find surprising. So that,
for example, if I am close with an animal, if I have a relationship with an animal or a plant or a
tree, it's like I'm participating in a non-ordinary network that is certainly invisible to conceptual
thought. And perhaps that's part of what I mean when I use this word non-ordinary. I don't
actually mean, or the phrase, conjunction, I don't actually mean, well, I guess I have
different meanings in different contexts, which is how I try to use words and how I try to think
about both the flexibility and dangers of language. But I don't really mean supernatural or
metaphysical, although nor do I not mean those things. It's just that that's not what I'm emphasizing.
When I'm using the word now or the phrase now, what I mean is unlike our common ideas. And that is also
kind of a strange thing because there are many, many human beings who are aware of the intimacies,
the faculties, the relationships, the gifts, well within the reach of our common humanity. And many
people practice these intimacies in their own sometimes unique and sometimes common ways. But
when I know an animal or a plant in a living place, the funny thing about it is that word gets
around. And that language might be a bit conflicted because it's not words that get around. But
something like the news travels. Other creatures become aware that I respect and adore the living
beings, and that I have a practice of relating with love and attentiveness and presence with them.
And so, for example, if I make a friend of relatively easy friends to make usually, but if I make a
friend of a blue jay, this will change my relationship with all the local birds. And it will also
change my relationship with the trees and the plants and the animals. And if I make a friend of a
raccoon, or an opossum, or a skunk, something very similar happens. The news travels. And I don't
think it travels by talking. And without being able to describe or explain the living network in
which this news travels, I'm deeply aware of it, respectful and reverent about it. And unlikely
to dismiss it with low-hanging clinical explanations of things like, well, of course, if you feed an
animal, other animals see this, right? But the relationships are actually quite complex because,
for example, when I first began to relate with some jays that I love, who know me well now,
I used to put some food in a specific spot in the garden. And because I was so focused on the
jays, I wasn't paying attention to the fact that the hummingbirds nearby were quite upset about
this. Because, well, in a complex way, the simple explanatory framework is that the hummingbirds
have a very intimate relationship with the blue jays. And it's not merely enmity, but they're
aware that the blue jays pose a threat to their young. Because the blue jays will eat hummingbird
eggs. And so will crows, magpies, other corvids, perhaps some hawks, though unlikely. Turns out
that the hummingbirds that nest near hawk nests have a fledgerate of about something around 80%
according to literature. And those that don't have a fledging rate, successful fledgerate of
something around 15 or 20%. And this is, of course, because the corvids, well, again, what's
actually going on is really, really complex and not like our explanatory paradigms. And I think
it's important to highlight this so that we don't forget. Because once we have an explanation or
model, it's really easy to believe it and to think that it's sufficient or that I know what's
going on. I've learned to resist that urge over time. And it requires practice for most of us.
It appears that the corvids don't want to approach the nest sites of hawks, which can prey on them
directly, not merely on their young. So there's a very complex web. And in the beginning,
while I wasn't paying attention to the hummingbirds, and they would be very vocal. But it took me a
while before I got the message, you know, they're very vocally telling me, hey, our nest is near
here. It's not, we're not happy. And it's a problem for us. If you keep bringing the blue jays
toward our nest. So eventually I learned to pay attention to that. And then the hummingbirds
relaxed. But for a while, they weren't too happy about me. So the news travels in different ways.
And there's so many different features of this situation on my mind that I'm going to have to
take a few moments to organize my my path. One of the simpler things I can say is that the internet,
as we understand it with humans, which I think we rather poorly understand it actually, rather
than us having an internet, and much like many of our other technological innovations,
our tools seem to possess us. This is a very strange situation. You can imagine how confused
you'd be for more reasons than one, if you saw a car riding a human down the street. But this is
something like this. This trope resembles our situation. We think we're riding our technologies,
but they are riding us. And they're extremely expensive in ways we have no systems of accounting
for. But the internet is a derivative of something accessible to us in relationships with living
beings, places and each other. Also with origin and knowledge, and perhaps the most peculiar
technology of all, language. The technology with which we structure memory and preserve it over
time, preserve those structures over time, exchange them, place them in competition, not only with
each other, but with ourselves, and perhaps even with life on earth. I was just listening again to
my dear friend, Ryan First Diver, to his his phenological lecture on the current moon cycle,
and Ryan is one of the unusual people in my world who's deeply aware of much of what I speak of and
am concerned about. And has been a wonderful ally and teacher and companion in my own path of
learning, which for me sometimes seems to go far too far more slowly than I would prefer.
And to proceed by millimeters rather than inches or feet or miles, though there are
occasional sudden leaps. And Ryan, along with being just a brilliant human being, he's an
embodiment of lineage knowledge that has been preserved and transferred within Blackfoot communities,
perhaps for thousands of years. What an incredibly rare gift it is to have a friend like this,
particularly in our modern time, when the originally indigenous peoples and their languages
are disappearing and undergoing wave after wave of what we might refer to as colonization. I guess
when we use this word, we often think of the peculiar disjunction between nomadic peoples
who live on the land. And of course, not all of the peoples who live on the land are nomadic,
because the necessity of moving about depends very deeply on the transformations of living
places over lunar and solar cycles, and perhaps cycles we have no idea or concept for. And so
there are settled indigenous peoples, and there are still some nomadic indigenous peoples. But
when we use this word colonization, I think we think of the stories surrounding the histories
and tragedies surrounding the invasion of territories by city builders, and largely Western
colonial powers. But it's also useful to think about it in the same way we might think about the
colonization, the idea of colonization that we might get from infection with certain forms of
bacteria or viruses that colonize us and live in and as and with our bodies, sometimes neutrally,
sometimes beneficially, and sometimes catastrophically. One of the things I like about Ryan
is that he's surprisingly humble about the his role as someone who is embodying and preserving
and nurturing and sharing from these ancient traditions. You can find his wide range of lectures
on YouTube if you search for Ryan first diver, two words, and particularly if you add to that
phenology, that's P-H-E-N-O-L-O-G-Y, then you can find his phenology lectures which are
in my perspective one of the most valuable and astonishing things available on the internet.
And this is in my mind today, not merely because I was listening to his lectures,
but because of an experience I had last night that brings full circle something precious to me.
Before I'd been introduced to the idea of phenology and I want to be clear there's something much
deeper here than any kind of study can reveal, vastly more deep and more accessible and differently
accessible. Accessible to our interiority, to our essence, to our souls, to our hearts,
to the origins within time and embodiment of our minds. There's something much much deeper than
any kind of study will reveal and it's this asset that is precious to me. Though I value also the
the study and intellectual knowledge.
So
before I knew that phenology existed, before I knew that there were people who studied living time
over cycles of the sun and moon, but since the moon has a faster pulse,
it's more the moon cycles have a faster pulse, they're more accessible to us.
In the west we have this idea of seasons and we ordinarily count them as four,
winter, spring, summer, fall and we see this as a circle or cycle.
But each year there are 12 or perhaps 13 depending on
the specific circumstances in the living places. There are 12 or 13 moons
and although there were solar societies, probably throughout history,
societies that marked time by the sun, most of the ancient and indigenous societies that I've
become aware of pay very close attention to the moon.
So that it becomes a demarcation, each moon cycle from the new moon to the new moon
or from the first crescent to the last crescent or the next first crescent.
The time when the moon is gone is a very important
mysterious situation and of course there are wonderful ancient stories,
origin stories and teaching stories and magical stories, mythos stories around
the origin of humans and their relationships with the sun and the moon and the morning star
and what is sometimes referred to as the false morning star
and also with the dipper stars and the Pleiades stars.
But these are rarely presented as objects, in fact I've never heard it done.
They're presented as beings of a non-ordinary whose scope of existence is very different from
those of us who are merely embodied. So long ago when I first came here to San Francisco
I looked around for signs of life and I'm particularly fascinated by specific forms
though I love all the forms pretty much without exception.
I'm not super happy about things like you know fleas or mosquitoes or something but I still love them.
So when I first came here I was new to this living place and I really saw it as a city
and not a living place and I saw the park and the garden as human invented representations
of living places. That was a bit naive over time I came to understand that anywhere there's life
is a living place even if there's a difference in the accessible depth and diversity of a wilderness
and the accessible depth and diversity of a backyard or even the little square of cement
that has been cut away in front of a house in order for some plants to be growing there.
And one night well because when I came here I was very curious I started to look around for
the forms of life I remember from my childhood and I have to tell you it's important to understand
that in the 60s and 70s there were vastly more forms of life all around every place I lived
even in the cities I lived they were mostly small cities.
Unfortunately over a very short period of time most of that life disappeared.
All kinds of insect species disappeared bird species disappeared amphibians are among the first
to go when there's an environmental problem because they're very delicate.
And so the species of frogs and toads and salamanders and newts lizards and snakes that I
had occasionally or sometimes regularly encountered in my childhood these became very rare as I got
older and this was due primarily to environmental toxicification of a wide range of kinds but one
of the most devastating of all was the widespread use of DDT as an insecticide in the 60s and 70s
if I remember correctly certainly in the 70s when Rachel Carson of course wrote her brilliant
book Silent Spring about this problem and I consider that to have been an act of heroism.
But as I got older the creatures I adored largely disappeared.
All kinds of different spiders and insects beetles and moths butterflies dragonflies
they went away and they didn't come back.
And when I came here I thought the gardens here and the park would be a perfect place
to find some amphibians and perhaps some reptiles.
But I was mistaken.
I've turned over hundreds of logs and pieces of wood in the gardens and in the in the park
and I've never yet seen one frog or amphibian not one salamander not one newt.
In fact peculiarly Golden Gate Park is built on what used to be sand dunes
and these days when one turns the log over although
it may be different today than it was back then I'll try it.
Let's have a peek.
Very little.
Some spiders but one of the surprising things is that under the loam in the gardens
even though we're three or four miles from the ocean there are thousands of sand fleas
and these are the detritivores that are native to this area.
And I think it's hard to outcompete them.
They're staggeringly numerous
and you find them wherever you lift up some of the loam.
This is uncommon.
Ordinarily these creatures aren't found more than a mile or two from the ocean.
But perhaps some 25 years ago I was out walking in the evening
and as I recall it was a full moon.
Now of course in western culture we think of this as one specific moment
in the time of one day in the cycle.
But indigenous cultures weren't so concerned about exactitude in numerism.
At least when thinking about the moon cycle so that for the three days around the new moon
it may be understood to be the new moon and the full moon might be on a specific day
but also for a few days around it it's still relatively full.
So one night I was out walking and I'd looked everywhere I could think of
and found no evidence of amphibians here.
There used to be a little exception I'm not sure if it will survive.
Here in the gardens there is one specific pond where there were unusual frogs.
But I think during the pandemic that man-made pond wasn't continuously filled
and one of the important reproductive cycles may have been overcome by the lack of water
so that the eggs did not survive.
We will find out this spring.
And of course the indigenous peoples who follow the moon
they have something more like 12 or 13 seasons and they don't tend to think of spring and fall
though there may be exceptions.
Sorry 12 or 13 seasons.
The moon seasons.
And phenology is in part the study of the transformations
that are available to our perception both somewhat objectively in the sense of
ah these birds have just returned from far away or these animals are now making nests
or these insects or animals or plants are mating now.
So there are some easily observed features of each moon cycle that we can remark upon.
But there's something much much deeper that's very difficult to speak of
in common western conceptual thought.
There's a vast layered web of intimate relationships, transfers of gifts, mutual aid,
hunting, predation, reproduction, mating.
And these relationships and their invisibles are old in a way our common language
is very ill-equipped to frame to our thought.
But they are accessible to our participation should we choose to engage that way.
And they are perceptible to aspects of our minds and our bodies and perhaps our essence,
our spirit in a way that has more in common with dreaming than it does with thought.
And this may be in part why many indigenous peoples have profoundly developed traditions
not merely around dreaming as we think of it, the thing that happens at night when we're asleep.
But something deeper, more rich, more diverse, more profound
that partakes of a similar character in awareness and consciousness.
And so we might benefit from understanding that the dreaming we have at night
is the resurgence and the invitalization and the healing and the reformation
of aspects of our humanity with which we are ordinarily not familiar.
And one of the reasons why psychedelic drugs are popular in culture is
they have the capacity to forcefully shift our awareness and consciousness
from its ordinary forms and activities back towards something we might think of as more
essential, ancient, lost.
And though it's not my goal here to denigrate these medicines and these drugs,
I would say that it's important
to be careful and cautious about suddenly forcing our consciousness into another form,
even if it resembles something innate in us that's natural.
The conversation around these substances would for me be very complex and nuanced,
but I think our modern inclination to sightsee, spectate is problematical
for us and our development and the development of our intelligence and awareness.
So long ago one evening I was walking during the full moon
and I often noticed very small tiny things.
It's not that I only look at the ground while I'm walking,
but partly because I do not wish to kill things by accident
and it's pretty hard to avoid that as a gigantic monstrosity,
which humans are compared to small, very small creatures.
Nonetheless, I try to pay some attention and not just because I don't want to do harm,
but also because I want to see who is around.
And this is one of the strange things about English and Western culture.
We refer to plants and animals as what?
That's what is around, which inclines us, the connotation is that of an object,
a manipulable object, a disposable object, something we can ignore,
destroy, manipulate, test, experiment on, and so forth.
I've been fascinated by science and biology throughout my life. However, once I understood more deeply
the processes involved, I became really troubled
by the idea of a knowledge way that saw insufficient moral or ethical necessity
in their relationships with living beings. And what I mean is
to kill and torment animals and insects and plants and fishes and amphibians and mice and so on,
for the sake of producing what we refer to as scientific knowledge,
which is most often very mechanical, abstract, disembodied, and gets employed for purposes
I think we might object to if we understood them more deeply. I would, many of them.
It's not that science is particularly bad, science is an array of methods.
Rather, it's again the problem with our tools riding us and our strange propensity to keep producing
these kinds of tools and these kinds of relationships with our tools.
I think we don't have enough respect for this danger.
In any case, long ago I was walking in the night, the moon was shining,
and I saw on the ground something resembling an earthworm, but it wasn't.
It was a newt, the kind of small, chocolate brown, worm-like looking thing that you would just think
was a worm unless you looked close enough to see its very tiny legs and the fact that it has a head
and a tail. And I was completely shocked. I thought, oh my goodness, somewhere around here
newts are hiding, and I've never been able to find them, but for some reason on this night
they are out.
So, I was very surprised. Hello. To see a few newts out on the cement in the night,
and I realized, ah, it's the full moon. There must be something going on. There's a special event
happening here right now, today, where the newts that are ordinarily hidden emerge,
and they don't merely emerge. For some reason they can be found on the sidewalks, not a good place for
newts, and a few of them had been crushed by people stepping on them.
And so I realized, I just had this realization, oh my goodness, it must be that there's one special
moon time in the year when the newts emerge here in the city from their hiding places.
But it did not occur to me then to record that time and place. And so all that I really knew,
you know, later, was there's some full moon where the newts come out to mate.
Now some of these things were presumptions, right? Of course I never saw them mating.
Perhaps they were doing something else. And that's possible, yet it seems unlikely to me,
because I wasn't merely thinking about what was going on. It was as if the newts themselves,
having been somehow sensitive to my fascination with them, my reverence for them,
gave me a gift of understanding. Something was transferred to me in this way.
And that gift became very important for me. Now of course it wasn't the first
phenological event that I'd ever seen, right? I knew that the bees will make new hives in a
certain season. The butterflies will transform in a certain season. You'll find the caterpillars in
one season, the chrysalis in another, the butterflies and moths in another. I knew these things.
But I don't think I'd ever had any experience of these events being tied to the moon.
It wasn't until later, having been exposed to some degree to the sort of western myth of
Surround the Moon primarily, which is derivative of other knowledge systems and stories.
It never occurred to me that the living beings might be hitchhiking on the celestial beings
and their transformations. And if there's one thing that's staggeringly beautiful and obvious
and profound about life is that everything is drafting on each other. It's much easier to
accomplish certain imperatives under specific circumstances that support, nurture, protect,
catalyze these living temporalities of the world.
And all of the creatures, they hitchhikes the wrong word. Drafting is a little closer.
They take advantage of the transformations in flow, relation, time, temperature
that occur throughout each moon cycle, each solar cycle.
And this topic's infinitely deep.
You can certainly see humans hitchhiking, drafting on each other's thought, activity,
awareness in a way that we could understand as opportunistic. Birds traveling together
magnify their sensing abilities and their resilience
in ways that are extremely complex and in ways that involve each of the individuals we might,
each of the animals we might see as an individual, but also transforming those individuals
by giving them special roles in groups, flocks, schools of fish, so on.
So long ago, I saw the newts and I realized this is something very important.
And I linked it to the full moon in my mind, but I didn't know which full moon.
And so for many years, I think I saw the newts twice in the past 30 years here, so.
But I didn't know when. And I expected that it would be one of the moons that we associate
with spring, perhaps June.
And last night, I was walking and talking with one of my dear friends in Israel.
And I saw on the ground for the first time
in more than, in probably more than 20 years, I saw that one of these newts had been crushed,
which meant it had been out. And this was two days after the full moon.
And it had been there long enough that I could ascertain it was very likely
that this full moon in Katoi is the one where the newts emerge from hiding, perhaps to mate
and renew the ancient cycle of life and relation they embody.
And I was unhappy that the newt was dead, but I found, but I was happy because now I knew
in which cycle this happens, which means next time, if I live, I will be able to go out and see them
on the full moon in Katoi. I mispronounced it slightly. It's more like
something like this.
And so that was astonishing. I was so happy to have come full circle,
to have learned something of the moon cycles and their unique,
the unique transformations and relationships that are renewed and re-embodied by the living places
over the cycle of a year. Now, of course, there are longer cycles. There are cycles that are 10
years long. There are cycles that are 50 years long. There are all kinds of
complex synchronizations in organisms over time. I think I remember hearing that I can't remember
the exact interval, but some scientists had discovered, I often get really worried when I
hear this phrase, scientists have discovered something. I'm like, well, that thing will be
dead quick. And this is too often the case. When it was ascertained that the
bristlecone pines were among the oldest organisms on earth, an arborist or biologist took a core
sample, not understanding that the nature of the bristlecone pine is to have a very thin
sort of strand of living tree buried within layers and layers of material that's no longer
actively live. And in taking a core sample from this tree, he killed it. And this happens over
and over again. We find something very old, we kill it. We discover a new life form, we kill it,
and bring it back to the lab for dissection, classification, measurement, and so on.
That's a deeply tragic loss for us, also for the beings who are killed, obviously. But it's tragic
for us because killing is a really shitty way of knowing. And killing simply to gain mechanical
understanding might be even worse, often is worse. So I get very nervous when I hear that
scientists have discovered something new about life or life forms, because it's not clear to me at
all that that discovery is going to be beneficial for us as living beings, or for the beings with whom
we relate, and those that science turns its awareness towards, or scientists turn their
awareness towards. And I would say that the purposes, there's something wrong with these
purposes that produce clinical knowledge. Not that I'm opposed to clinical knowledge,
or necessarily the methods we use to derive it, but there are vast layers and branches of those
methods and domains, and many more layers and branches of how that knowledge is eventually
applied and for which purposes that I find terrifying and wrong, fundamentally wrong.
So last night, after discovering the newts, or anute, and realizing the full moon has just passed,
completing that 30-year circle. Oh, so I was telling a story. The scientists had discovered a
patch of microbes in the Arctic that appear to draft on long-term solar cycles,
so that they might come to life and reproduce, and I, again, I can't remember the interval,
but let's say once every 300 years, or 1,000 years, or 5,000 years, they're following intimately
transformations in the Sun, Earth, Moon relationship.
And I found that so amazing, but this is just an example to illustrate that our temporality
kind of naturally limits us to scopes that are at least within our lifespan
and rhythms that are relatively easily recognizable from our human temporal perspectives.
The moon cycle is a very accessible perspective,
and I guess it works out to 28 to 29 days, but I'm not sure about that.
So I took a picture of the newt, the crushed newt that I found.
Not really as a memento,
but as a reminder of which day this year that happened on. And, of course, we can use various
systems together. We can have the sort of Gregorian system overlaying the moon cycle systems.
But what's deeply important to me is not these systems, though their capacity to draw us in
to deeper, more meaningful relationships with living beings in places is profound,
and this is what I find, you know, part of what I find provocative and beautiful.
I'm more interested in the invisibles. I'm more interested in
the aspects of knowledge that are not conceptual, not intellectual,
not descriptive in the sense of being models or representations, but that are transports,
that are doorways, that our interiority under some circumstances is invited into relation with,
meaningful deep relation. And the story of last night continues in a strange and unexpected way.
So on part of my walk, there's a very steep hill.
And I take this route in part for exercise because there's some good hills and I'm getting on in years.
And as I was ascending the hill,
there was a peculiar event. I was still on the phone with my friend in Israel and
a rather troubled man across the street began to try to communicate with me. Of course,
I had my earpods in and it was clear that he was nervous and fraught and he asked me
if I might be so kind as to make a phone call for him, or rather he asked if he could use my phone.
And I explained, well, I'm on the phone, so let me tell my friend I'll call them back.
And I caused the call, branded it, and then he explained his predicament and why he couldn't
use his own phone and asked me to make a call for him because people were going to come
and take away his belongings in this coming week if he didn't receive the protection of an ally.
So he wanted me to call and I did that for him and he was pleased
and offered to pay me, but I told him that his comfort was more than sufficient.
And then, you know, that little adventure came to a close, but as it did, because I didn't have my
earpods in and I have walked up the street 50-60 times in the evening. As that adventure
drew to a close, I realized that I was hearing something I've never heard in the city and
I've been around it a lot. I'm not saying I know it really well and there are no frogs here, but
the lake that surrounds Strawberry Hill had one bullfrog, and I know of the frogs in the little
pond, but I've never heard their nocturnal chorus, and the nocturnal chorus of frogs
is an incredible thing, an astonishingly beautiful, deep, rich thing, and a doorway to something
if only we could understand how to respectfully and reverently participate in that doorway.
It's a doorway to other intelligences in nature and time, or so I understand it,
and so I was shocked. I was hearing the nocturnal chorus of many, many frogs,
and I called my friend back and I said, there are many frogs here. I think I'm going to go looking
for them, come with me, and maybe you will hear them, and she could hear them eventually over
the mic. Now the situation was quite complex. I was near a schoolyard. The schoolyard had multiple
levels above that. There was a hill, and when I first went back to find the frogs that I
remembered hearing, there was no frog sound. There was the ordinary, or the extraordinary,
really evening chorus of birds, but no frogs. And without needing to complicate the story,
it took a while, but I was very concerned that what I might be hearing wasn't frogs at all.
There was a machine emitting frog sounds, because if you go to certain places in Golden Gate Park,
you will find machines emitting the sounds of living things,
recordings. Now of course you can usually tell they are recordings because there's a regularity to
them that's unnatural. So I wandered around for a while and I thought maybe the school has put in
speakers to produce frog sounds so that the children who go there, I don't know. I mean,
you finish the statement for me. Personally I despise these recordings and the incessant
replacement of nature with representations, machines, pictures, recordings, so on.
But after careful exploration, and again when I first went back there was no sound,
but it started up again. And after I explored for a bit, I found out where the frogs are,
and they are definitely frogs, and there must be hundreds of them, and there are different kinds of
them. So there's a little pool of some kind up on top of the hill above the school, and that pool
is filled with frogs. And isn't it remarkable that on the same night
that I discovered a newt, I also found the first place I know of around here
where there are many frogs. And I was so happy to hear them.
And they are certainly aware in their own embodied way, probably not in a conceptual way,
of the transformations of threat and opportunity that happen
in very small intervals within a moon cycle. Each of the animals is like a kind of living time,
and by this I don't mean a clock. I mean a time being.
And their relationships form symphonies within symphonies, and these symphonies are not
our ordinary concepts, ideas, and clinical knowledge
are catastrophically insufficient to encompass what this means, what is actually going on
in the living music of beings in relation underneath the sun, underneath the moon.
And my friend in Israel could hear the frogs, and it was really beautiful.
Now of course, if anyone chose to, though I think they'd be missing out if they did,
they could presume that those two events were quote-unquote mere coincidence.
And we have these ideas in English and in Western cultures
around correspondences and synchronicities, but I'm very mistrustful of them.
I'm mistrustful of the ideas.
It doesn't mean I pay them no attention. I take them with a lot of salt, so to speak.
Yet we have these derivations and frameworks and models and ideas
because there is something in our experience
from which we derive them, and that's something I am very sensitive to,
and there was more than a hint of it here last night with the amphibians.
The way my friend Ryan presents phenology is
shaped in such a way as to be accessible to moderns, and so
it will sound a bit like an academic pursuit.
If that's the kind of ear we're listening with, but if we listen more closely,
we will see that Ryan hints here and there and sometimes directly introduces
non-ordinary aspects of traditional Blackfoot knowledge ways.
And of course, even when he is pronouncing the Blackfoot names of plants and animals,
we're getting a gift there of experience with a language vastly older than English.
And somehow in the sounds of that language,
there's something exquisite, rare in our experience, deeply profound,
and related to the living layers of intimacy in relation
that have survived
the terrible repercussions of colonization and genocide and omniside.
So for me, this is deeply medicinal,
and although the surface may look academic to some, and involves
modern academic ideas and perhaps biology here and there, folds some of that in.
Ryan's really good at making a soup that's accessible to modern people,
while still carrying in its broth the living heartbeat
of these peoples, their ancient traditions, their intimacies and understandings
their agreements and treaties with living places, living beings,
and the origin of life, the meaningful purpose of
soil and light and water,
their marriage, their children, their histories.
And frankly, I'm deeply humbled by all these things.
Knowing of them does not make me feel smart or important,
and quite the opposite. I feel the living places and beings and intimacies and relationships,
these are true in a way that humans have never made a network like.
The news that emerges when we're engaged
in relating with the transformations over each moon cycle, should we so choose
to become involved in this way, is absolutely trustworthy, and it's of a kind never found
in language, never found in concepts. It does not exist in models,
in the same way that a kiss does not exist in models, an embrace does not exist in models.
One being giving their life so that another may survive is not a model.
It's a relational transfer.
In the dimension of being.
It's a recognition, not merely of mutual concern,
but of mutual embodiment,
that our very bodies are the results, our minds are the results of these relations,
conserved and continued over unimaginable expanses of living time.
In this garden that I now walk in, 60 seconds might be more time than humans have ever measured,
because the humans measure time flatly with machines.
But living beings are embodied time, and all of them have different temporalities
that, as I've mentioned, become symphonic together.
And so, if we look just to the microbes, if we take just one form, the very tiny life,
we would likely find that some, we might establish in description some kind of conversion rate,
so that, let's say, an hour is approximately commensurate with
to be conservative a month in the life of an individual bacterium.
But in this little garden, there are more bacteria than there have ever been human beings.
And so, there are trillions, at least, of bacteria, all existing together,
hitchhiking on each other, supporting each other, opposing each other, colonizing,
arising, disappearing, reproducing.
And trillions and trillions of months
of comparable time happen in one minute in this garden,
in the same way that one human year is actually 7.8 billion human years,
if there are 7.8 billion human beings uniquely participating and experiencing it,
participating in and experiencing it.
And from this perspective, time is nothing like our ideas.
And in fact, could be understood as shockingly sophisticated dimension of relationships.
I wouldn't throw away flat time, but I don't believe in it. It's not real.
It's a convenience of description, measurement, modeling, useful, but deceptive.
We've all had experiences where a few hours might seem to last for months
or pass in what seems like no time at all.
And so, even our own temporal experience is in conflict
with the measured specificity of mechanical time.
One of the peculiar skills and abilities of our kind of animals is to produce
these sorts of representations. It's unfortunate when they ride us
into tragedy, confusion, blindness, loss of sensing, loss of relation, loss of intimacy.
And then, of course, when this happens, often these losses are represented
in photographs, theories, measurements, descriptions, commodities, transactions, so on.
There's a bizarre problem with Western thought.
And it's not merely Western thought, of course. It's just difficult for me to find a good
label or badge for it. Sometimes I just call it modernity, but that's a very
inexact word, very blurry, very vague. What does it mean?
But I suppose I mean the models of meaning, value, relation, time, identity that we inherit
and then tend to crystallize as we grow older.
And how bereft they are and dismissive
of our true nature as living beings and intelligences, as expressions of the entire
history of life, not merely on Earth, but in all places. For the life on Earth must be an expression
of the context with which and for which it arises and departs.
And this is why you'll often find me taking a critical slant or perspective
on what I refer to as a formal representational cognition.
But of course that's been a part of our toolbox for a long, long time,
evolutionarily. If indeed time is actually linear, another idea that I doubt. It looks to me
like there's something going on where the future is feeding back into the past.
And this moment is emerging both from the past and the future and is deeply profoundly related
in its expressivity, what it is expressing.
Time is among the most mysterious of ideas.
And I'm fascinated by the small
advancements I've been able to make in my thinking around temporality, life, intelligence, and light,
water, space, time.
It's beautiful to be able to share the story of the Newts
and to know that there are still some here and to have discovered a frog colony
during this moon cycle, katoi, which means approximately
we may require some assistance with eating. There's a couple of interpretations Ryan's presented
in his lectures and they're all useful. I wouldn't dismiss any of them.
But this refers to the great difficulty of obtaining food in the latter part of winter.
Many beings are starving. And this presents the opportunity to forge relationships by sharing food
and to nurture. And what is the word I'm seeking here to
to to celebrate and renew
these relationships and our own humanity.
For those of you who are interested, I hope you may take some time to listen to some of Ryan's
lectures and to participate in his missions, perhaps even to support them.
For I consider them invaluable and beautiful and noble in their way.
I've been watching the ground pass by me as I walk. And now that I've paused and I'm looking at the sky.
There's a there's a photic driving phenomenon.
This is the capacity to preserve
behaviors and situations in our nervous systems. For a short time,
usually beyond which they were being employed. So when I watch the ground flowing past me
for 20 or 30 minutes under my feet and I then look up to the sky, it appears
that the clouds are departing away from me. In a way not entirely dissimilar to how when one is
standing in the surf, one feels pulled backwards as it surges toward us and pulled
toward the ocean as it recedes.
I find this experience profound. The clouds are not doing
what my eyes and my felt senses transmit to me. Instead,
because my nervous system was doing was engaged in this particular form of seeing
where the ground is flowing past me and this also works with water. If you watch one spot on water
that's flowing long enough and then you look away, you may see your vision warping and flowing
in ways that aren't commonly familiar to us from unintoxicated states, but ways we may have
some familiarity with from states of illness, ecstasy, or intoxication.
Psychedelics seem to produce various kinds of driving phenomenon like this or
one moment.
They may also disinhibit features of our nervous systems
that are ordinarily engaged in maintaining stability.
Some of these may be inhibited. I think others are excited, catalyzed,
but to have one's vision flowing and changing
opens us to the perspective
that there are other ways of sensing
familiar to our bodies, unfamiliar to our expectations and thinking.
And when I see that flowing
with my eyes as the clouds recede away seemingly, I feel something unusual as well
and it's not merely disorientation, it's recognition, it's a memory of another way
of having a mind, a way that more resembles our experience while dreaming
than it usually does our experience while awake.
Perhaps today we have been dreaming together with the living places,
the plants and animals and insects, the waters and land and mountains, the deserts,
the forests, the rivers, the lakes, the oceans, the islands, planes, the meadows,
the frozen places, the secret places beneath the earth, the secret living places in the sky,
perhaps today, in remembering and speaking of these matters, we've opened a door together,
a door familiar to our humanity and our nature as animals and organisms
and often unfamiliar to our common modern habits of thought, description, speech,
behavior. I hope this may be the case in a way that is worthy and virtuous.
Thank you for joining me.
Perhaps soon we may remember together
how to participate
with the living beings and places in the news that is most trustworthy and true
and almost the polar opposite of what we're used to thinking of when we hear the word news.
I look forward to learning together again soon. Thank you.
