Hello, everybody. Welcome on a late night walk in a hot place that is now a bit breezy
and cooler in the night. A friend of mine was recently telling me that sometime
after our first conversation, since we were children, about four months ago, he had some
dreams about me. And in the dreams, I was driving a specific make of car. And it turns
out that, in point of fact, I have been driving that certain make of car. And it's not my car.
Perhaps a week after our first conversation, since we were children, I had a dream. And I wrote this
down in the morning, as I sometimes do when I can recall my dreaming. I had a dream that I met a
sort of scruffy, overly enthusiastic little dog. And the next day, I met that dog.
Now, a wise skeptic would introduce some facts here and say, oh, yes, but are you sure you did
not mention the make of this car in the conversation that you had? And in all frankness, I can't be
sure. Might have. And then the skeptic might say, well, as you've been near this dog for a while now,
perhaps you had seen it previously. And it only registered subconsciously. And this came up in
your dream. Now, you can see that if we're very, very picky and careful, we may be able to find
plausible explanations for implausible phenomenon, presuming, of course, that precognitive dreams are
implausible, or more severely impossible.
Now, for that to be true, for them to be impossible, and even for them to be implausible, we would have to be able
to explain every such event in all of human history. Every event where a situation we're traveling toward in the
future is foreseen in a vision or a dream, and then to some reasonable degree of similarity between the vision and our
memory of it, and the event that occurs. Because certainly, in the visions, some things might be different in the dream. And
another skeptic would argue that since we're talking about dreaming, this is a matter of post hoc memory adjustment. I don't
really remember the dog in the dream. This dog matches closely enough. Therefore, my memory of the dream changes to
include this specific dog. And I mistakenly believe that somehow I had seen the future, so to speak, in a limited sense. The
language is a bit confusing because someone who can see the future probably see all futures. All of the future, right? The
future isn't a future. It's all the future. So we can use extreme language to be dismissive and say no one sees the future. They see
future situations sometimes, apparently, in dreams or vision, or dance of awareness in our minds, which sometimes becomes extremely subtle and
discerning under certain circumstances, or in certain people, in certain moments. Now, there's a thread through most of these
stories of precognition. And the thread is one of intimacy. Clearly, my friend felt very close with me, and was very concerned about
something. And that concern focused the faculties that are capable of seeing something of the future.
In general, most of us are taught either that there's certainly no such thing as precognition, an idea I consider to be impossible. In a way, it's almost like you're dancing along with the
conversation partner, and they pause for a moment and you supply the word that they were looking for, and they laugh, and you laugh. Surely, you didn't have their mind. And yet, the intimacy that exists in that relational situation starts to create evidence for shared minds, or even minds synchronizing together.
And so someone who is highly synchronized with a series of related events might guess the next beat without much difficulty, because now they're seeing from a perspective outside they're limited, I'm just me, mine.
I don't think we should be too fascinated with precognition itself. That would end badly, I suspect in most cases, there'd be some exceptions. Rather, what's interesting is that it's possible, or not that it's possible, meaning that we have the capacity as human beings to reliably and
invariably have these kinds of experiences. The two that I mentioned are trivial, but personal to me. And they're recent experiences, they're not distant memories. The conversation with my friend happened today. And I'm very close friends with that dog and its owner.
So, what I think is fascinating is that somehow in our cultures, there are two or three different branches of culture that would relate to this. There are the skeptics who, let's face it, are reasonable to be skeptical,
unless A, they've had the experience themselves personally, or B, some demonstration has been made to them personally that is overwhelmingly convincing.
So, we have the skeptics, and most of what they're skeptical about is not precognition. So, it's really easy for them to point out successes that this perspective entails.
Then we have the believers, and this is many branches on this little branch. People who are religious about this, or find it so astonishing that the coherent stability of their everyday mind is disrupted by their fascination with this.
And it's implications.
And then you have religion, and whether or not such things are described as the fruit of evil, or a sin, or bad magic, idolatry, whatever you want to make of it.
Obviously, any such actual senses in human beings would be an exceptional threat to religions because they would have to either embrace it or not.
So, the skeptics, the believers, and the religious.
Now, not all precognition happens in a vision.
There are many examples of forms that are not visual.
Someone has an incredibly good feeling about a situation, which turns out to be wildly good for them.
Another person has a significant foreboding, and something really disturbing happens.
They may even have a foreboding that includes the kind of disturbing thing that turns out to happen.
And the complexity here is teasing apart those feelings and their seeming focus, or the events that take place, because somehow our orientation in awareness and behavior and emotion, all of these things, intelligence.
It seems to evoke, to some degree, it seems capable of evoking situations in the future for us.
Certainly, some people stumble into things, but brilliant young women and men, Mary Shelley, who wrote Frankenstein, Helen Reddy, the folk singer,
just some names off the top of my head, Lynne Margolis, the evolutionary biologist, Dorian Sagan's mother, Carl Sagan's ex-wife,
and well-known people like Goethe and Einstein, Wolfgang Pauli, and mathematicians and physicists and such.
They chased something into the future, and that certainly produced direct results.
But I suspect that our orientations have a stranger way of affecting how things turn out, so to speak, although they never completely turn out, do they, unless the story ends?
By which I mean to indicate that situations continue to evolve after their high, low, mid, or unusual transformations.
We often refer to one's heartfelt goals and aspirations as dreams, probably not an accident this, it's correlation.
Though I am not saying that dreams are fundamentally precognitive, though I will say I think they're metacognitive, that's not ordinary cognition going on, but cognition is somehow involved, or consciousness is involved.
Now, if any human in all of history had even one dream in which they saw a future situation that later, by all lights we could bring, appears to be,
would have come to pass.
And I wouldn't necessarily have to see a later one.
If Joe has a dream that Tina's cooking a souffle and calls her in a faraway city to discover that she's just found herself in a cooking class and they made souffles,
this qualifies, and things like this are happening all day long every day.
So, one of the things I'm at pains to testify to is that I know these experiences are real and they are true.
I don't need a commonplace explanation for them, nor do I require a religious one.
Instead, it is clear to me that minds form networks, and the networks have transports that are not physical. They are relational.
A man has a dream about a specific place in a city he lives one night.
The next day, in that place his wife meets her long lost sister, and they discover each other there in that place.
This is the nature of how cognition works in groups of humans.
Because we're isolated and fed stimuli through electronic devices all day long, this is not much of our experience.
And, to be honest, there's a vast portion of this kind of experience or experience that gets labeled this way, or narratized as this, which is not reliable.
And there are all kinds of delusions that simulate the non-ordinary faculties that we are all born with.
At the same time, there is a vast library of techniques to spuriously confuse spectators producing results that appear to be psychic.
So we have the authentic and the spurious, and we have the skeptics who don't believe in the authentic, but certainly are aware of the spurious.
And we have the believers, wide continuum, huge range of different ones, each believing different things for different reasons, and talking amongst themselves, and publishing books, and so on and so forth.
And most of that behavior is confused.
But these faculties are natural to all human beings, and they take different forms in different people, in different places, in different cultures, in different times.
And it's very confusing for those people.
Some of those people have both things. They have both authentic functioning of such faculties and delusion.
And, in fact, the authentic functioning of such faculties often leads to delusion, because the attempt to explain them to oneself and others is fraught with almost irresolvable complexities
of tangled social constructs and ideas and concepts and science and religion.
And the fact that delusion does permeate the field, but it permeates just about every field.
So that shouldn't be surprising.
Of course, I've read many, many stories about the topic of time travel and precognition, various kinds.
Of course, what we're talking about here is very narrow precognition. Again, no one knows the future.
This kind of experience, precognitive experience, is ordinarily, most commonly associated with single events.
One thing that happens. I meet the dog. I drive the car.
Someone who could see the future would be a prophet. Even the people who see the future of business, they have dreams, they have visions,
whether we conceive of them as something that happens in a dream-like state or an aspiration.
They have a vision and they chase it. We say, in English, they bring it to life.
I think the crucial point is that the network of minds has precedence over local minds.
And it's always been this way for humans. But primary features of the network between us have been captured by deleterious processes.
