Hi everybody. I'm here in the AIDS Memorial Grove in San Francisco's
Golden Gate Park and I've been listening to Eric Weinstein's podcast with
Alex Friedman. Some of you might know of it. If you're interested in related
topics, it's really interesting. I don't intend to talk a lot about that podcast
at the moment, but I do want to sing the praises of one person and those who
support her. Her name is Alexandra Elbakian, if I've got that right. And in
the podcast, Weinstein is justifiably singing the praises of a young man who
died of despair while he was trying to defeat a kind of evil empire that
profits on the research that all of our money, taxes we pay, three times over
supports. And Aaron Schwartz is a guy who believed that the results of
scientific research should be free to everybody. He got in trouble with the
powers of the bee, powers like JSTOR and Elsevier and other authorities who
profit wildly from the redistribution of scientific research our money paid for.
And I found it interesting that while Eric Weinstein was singing Aaron's
praises again justifiably, he didn't sing Alexandra's. Alexandra in 2011 founded
SciHub. SciHub is a website that has had to evade authoritarian persecution since
2011 and has so far done so relatively successfully. And it makes available
instantaneously to anyone with an internet web browser scientific papers
that otherwise are secured behind very expensive paywalls. And what that means
is that ordinary people can read science. In case you think this isn't
important, I want you to look at the situation our nation and all the
nations of the world are presently in as regards the relatively confusing crisis
that we're facing. And to understand that without education, without intelligence,
right, we're going to end up in a society that makes science fiction dystopias look
like birthday parties. Now I'm not trying to claim that science is the answer to all
of our problems, or that scientific research always gets it right, or that
there aren't dark forces within the bastions of academia, or corporate, you
know, states like America that have agendas, right? There are, because there
are companies like Dow Chemical and Monsanto and Bayer and other
companies who are powerful enough to use, to produce and use research for their
own ends. And so they can propose via their sort of privatized researchers
that glycophate isn't incredibly toxic, or doesn't do genetic damage to human
beings and ecologies and things. They can propose that, you know, GMO organisms are
the future of feeding humanity, when actually they're the future of feeding the
bank accounts of a small amount of tyrannical autocrats and kleptomaniacs. So I
just want to take a moment, I'm not even sure, you know, really what, what I'm going
to talk about today. I want to take a moment to celebrate Alexandra and Syhub,
because she took Erin's dream and brought it to the next level, and she's a
name nearly no one knows. Most of my friends who are in the industry are
unaware that, meaning the industry of science, many of them anyway, if not
nearly all of them, are unaware that Syhub exists. Nobody, everybody paid a lot
of attention to Erin, again, justifiably. No, no problem with Erin's brilliance
and his foresight, his perseverance, the risks he took, the pains he suffered. But
Alexandra succeeded, and created a method whereby people with access to the
data behind paywalls could contribute that data to a public accessible
infrastructure, where other people who wanted to read science about anything
could retrieve it for free on a moment's notice. And that's, in my view, genius, and
I'm not sure why we're not singing Alexandra's praises or why Eric avoided
mentioning her, since he's yelling at Lex about what we need to do to bring
prodigy and genius and amazing minds back to life in an academic environment
that keeps them chained to paychecks and shit. And it's really interesting because
Eric's kind of an angry intellectual genius, and he's not furious, right? He's
not, he's not up there yelling at Lex, but he is puzzled that Lex isn't upset, and
that's reasonable, because people who care about intelligence or the future of
life on earth, or, you know, the nature of human prodigy and assembling
contexts in which it can emerge and be understood and be celebrated and grow
and find purchase and survive, right? Eric wants us to return to something like
that. There's all kinds of things I disagree with Eric about. I don't claim
to be as smart as him or, you know, to have earned some right to disagree with
him or anything like that. In fact, I don't think I need to have those
credentials. We can just simply disagree, right? We can have different
perspectives. He thinks we need to get off the earth, for example. I think
simultaneously that if there's a way to get to other earth-like planets, we
should be working toward that for sure. But for the moment, there's no nearby
earth-like planets we can get to, and this place is a paradise, and space is
catastrophically inhospitable to life, right? You got hard radiation, no
resources, projectiles flying around at, you know, thousands of miles per
second. It's a bad idea, right? I'm not saying we shouldn't go there. I'm
saying the idea that we're going to establish some kind of foothold in the
solar system that will allow us to sort of back up the biosphere, in a sense,
right? Which is something I truly believe is important. Unfortunately, we've
kind of already failed. If you burn down the Amazon rainforests, you've burned
the library. If you wipe out the oceans, you've burned, you've done the modern,
absolutely horrific meta-equivalent of burning the library of Alexandria, or
burning all the libraries on earth, right? Because you're... What the humans
don't seem to realize is that nature is so explosively intelligent that the
biomolecules that you could discover in a square acre of the untouched Amazon
rainforest are more advanced than anything our species will ever produce. So if
you burn that down, I guess you could understand that as some kind of an
opportunity for corporations to sell you really crappy, extremely primitive
analogs of what we might otherwise have found there. Yeah. And this is a big,
this is a big part of how Western capitalism works, right? You take
something incredibly beautiful and astonishing and prodigious, you wipe
that out so people have no access to it, and then you sell them crappy little
counterfeit remnants of things that remind them of what you wiped out. Yeah.
That's basically how our culture works. And because the people know inside
themselves, they're carrying, they're carrying forms of prodigy, so
astonishing that none of the fictions they've ever heard have even hinted at
them. And they're hungry for the opportunity to awaken those things
within themselves. Nothing in their culture that they will ever encounter
will catalyze or celebrate that. In fact, they'll be punished every time they
try, and that punishment will start happening in kindergarten. This is
how our educational system works. It's not actually an educational system
anymore than if you took thousands of birds and started snipping off their
wings, telling them that birds are made for walking. Eventually, when
birds no longer see other birds with wings, they'll believe you. They'll
think, oh, we are creatures of the ground. And if anyone suggests wings to
such birds, those people will say like, well, you have a supernatural
fantasy. You're insane. But actually, human beings are born with an
astonishing library of wings inside ourselves. And unfortunately, we
encounter cultures that not only despise those wings and tend to attack
them, they're desperate to sell us back these sort of broken counterfeits at
ever-increasing prices over time. And this unfortunate situation is what the
modern generations have inherited from our ancestors. And most of us are
extremely confused and relatively helpless. And we have no idea how it is
we might remedy this situation. Or even if it is remediable, most of us have
never realized we had wings in the first place. Yeah, so if you don't
realize that you're a bird, you're going to be content crawling around on the
ground with everybody else that's crawling around on the ground and kind
of celebrating it if somebody manages to make a little hop. Now, I hope you'll
forgive my wild enthusiasm here. But crisis is one of the catalysts that can
occasionally, under some circumstances, cause people to remember some of the
astonishing faculties, abilities, histories, and relationships that
comprise the noblest aspects of our human interiority. And I have never
forgotten the thirst that I knew as a child for genius and prodigy. I have
never forgotten the visions I was endowed with by authors, women, and men, and
sometimes even children, who showed me a world that was at once familiar and
beyond the entirety of my common experience. And I, as a youth, also
felt that it was at least conceivable that somewhere near at hand, I might
encounter actually intelligent other beings, hopefully human beings, but
possibly beings from either another world or maybe even another dimension,
right? Because as a reader of science fiction, one of the common tropes is that
something happens, something unexpected, and the humans are suddenly in relation
with an advanced intelligence of a form unfamiliar to us. I think the capacity
for that encounter is much closer at hand than we could possibly imagine. In
fact, it's so close at hand, unless we're very lucky or very diligent, we'll never
discover it. It's actually in our hands. And I don't mean that metaphorically. I
mean something like your hand is the sign, the existence of your hands is the
sign that that relationship is already going on. But I don't expect people to
discover that. That's a bridge too far for nearly everyone I've ever encountered.
And even when I first began to understand it, it was, you know, a bit hard to
swallow, so to speak. But the highly advanced intelligences that we might
hope to meet in space or that we might consider to exist possibly in some other
dimension or, you know, excessively near to us are still interesting to me. Those
are real possibilities. However, the history of anomalism and the topics that
we point toward with ideas about aliens and UFOs and things like this, those
topics are very, very complex. And they have, I believe, a lot to do with things
that are distinct from the direction that I'm wanting to travel here. In other
words, they may not have to do with our capacity to encounter nonhuman
intelligence. They may have to do with other mysterious things that we don't
yet have categories or language about. They may even have to do with the nature
of our minds or perhaps our activity in the biosphere, which it should be
clear is omnicidal. It kills everything. You know, I heard someone say the other
day our species is a predator. We're not a predator. We're an omnicide. We kill
everything. It's not about preying on stuff. We just kill things for convenience
or because if stuff stops moving, we feel safer. You know, something like this,
which is not only abjectly insane and unsurvivable. It very rapidly feeds back
into the origins of our own consciousness and intelligence with catastrophic
results. So as our species is wiping out the anciently conserved biomes of Earth,
our capacity for intelligence is plummeting catastrophically. Now there
might be one or two, you know, there might be some small group of individuals
who can resist that free fall to some degree, or maybe even recover their
wings because they're falling in that way. But most of us probably won't. So one
of the places where we can directly encounter intelligence is so
astonishing and ancient, profound and profuse, that they exceed the sum of
everything we've ever thought or written as a species is in the living
beings that we are still lucky enough to exist in relationship with. Without
needing to explain in detail, I want to communicate to you my
own sense and I'm not trying to convince you or ask you to believe me or
you know, if you're curious, go and look on your own and I think you'll find that
what I'm talking about will have proven to be an understatement. But the living
beings that we are surrounded with, these redwood trees, the birds you can hear in
the background, the beehives, the ants, the whales and dolphins, the octopi, the
cuttlefish, the sparrow, the hummingbird, the bat, the badger, the bear, the beaver,
the giraffe, the rhinoceros, the lion, the tiger, the wolf, the coyote, the raccoon,
the opossum, the mouse. These creatures are not intelligent in the highly limited
capacities we're used to recognizing and relating with directly. They are not
intelligent in the way that we have, for example, at least I think they're not.
Maybe they are and I've overlooked it, by the way. There are some people who've
suggested this. They're not formally representational cognitives. They don't
use tokens to refer to things and they don't use regularized verbal language. Yet
they have, they are exemplars of forms of intelligence that our human conceptual
intelligence has been too fucking timid to imagine, let alone recognize. Okay. And
if Eric wants something to be pissed about, Weinstein, he wants to be angry
about something, he should be angry about that. We're living on a world surrounded
by intelligences that exceed the wildest speculations of our most brilliant
authors and we're busy kind of, you know, rubbing our chin going like, where are all
the smart things. If you were to take the atomic activities of one of your animal
cells, let's say a monopethylial cell from your lungs, for example, and just
examine that activity over the course of a second, and you were to try with all
your might to simulate all of the intelligence of the activities of that
cell as it interacts with the rest of your body and the universe and the history
of life on earth and the proteins and the, you know, the enzymes and the things
that the humans have named with scientific, you know, with biological
research. What you'd find is that the activity of a single cell over one
second is incomputable. The entire history of human computation would be
some unimaginably minute fraction of what a cell is doing, not just in a second,
in a thousandth of a second, right, just one cell, okay, and your own body is at
present estimates about 40 trillion cells and within those cells there are
organelles and, you know, within those, you know, there are mitochondria, there's
like all kinds of fancy protein production going on. Our cells are doing
miracles that our seemingly advanced technology is nowhere near understanding.
So we're made, we're actually made of the intelligences of
intelligences that wildly exceed the things we would hope to meet in outer
space and the world, the living world around us is an embodiment of the
relationships between these intelligences. Our people in our rush toward
technological ascendancy have overlooked something that no technology will ever
come near to approaching and we have over stood life and that is a tragedy we
must resolve together. We must cease to over stand the living places, the living
beings, the history and purpose of character of life on earth and there
are portals and purposes that make that mission accessible, compelling and
productive in exactly the ways that we're starving for inside, in exactly the
ways that that hunger makes us vulnerable to predators who want to sell us
counterfeits of this. I'm not angry in the same way Eric is angry or about the
same things and I'd be shocked if he were to listen to my little tirade and
find anything interesting about it at all. He'd probably just dare me to show
him what I meant but his capacity to form that question and present it to me is
the evidence that answers his challenge. We presume that our distant ancestors were
ignorant and superstitious because they didn't have science and they didn't
build machines and certainly when you know Spanish warships showed up somewhere
in you know South America or America and disembarked soldiers with armored you
know and weapons and horses and stuff, not to mention diseases, plagues, the
indigenous peoples there were decimated, their ways of knowing were
obliterated by the forceful incursion of the colonists but it is naive. It's
unforgivably naive to suppose that that means that the tribal and indigenous
ancestors who we must all trace our lineage is to if we are to believe the
stories suggested by Darwinian evolution and then at some point we were animals,
at some point we were all without technology as we understand it and to
suggest that that the knowledge of those peoples is all superstition and make
believe is provably wrong and dangerously insane. Now I'm not suggesting that we
return, that we go back in time and try to become like our ancestors. What I'm
suggesting is that there's a manifold of living intelligences on earth that our
ancestors were familiar with. They knew it intimately, the way we intimately know
our relationship with the light of the sun or oxygen or water and we can recover
those relationships and we should, I'd say we must although you know I'm not
trying to command anyone to do anything. But no matter what may come in the
future, we should be willing as people as individuals and groups to say we've had
enough of having our wings clipped off in childhood and being sold chains in
answer to the hunger in our hearts for flight. Instead we must recover together
the capacity to recognize and celebrate the essential interiority of our
humanity with all of its faculties and intelligence, with all of its nobility
and awesome scope and origin. And we should do this with both urgency and
humility for the gifts we carry were not established by ourselves, they were
established in relation with the living places of which we are expressions. If we
cannot understand that, our capacity for understanding has been largely silenced.
So I am hopeful having had direct experiences of the things of which I
speak that obliterated my wildest hopes and imaginings. I am hopeful that someday
we may learn to establish contexts even if it's only four or five of us and
maybe that's exactly how it starts with a tiny little group tightly knit,
curious, impassioned, capable, skillful, intelligent. In the shape of our hands
there is a secret. Each of the members is unique and they're joined together by a
unifying body, the palm. Your own body is not dissimilar, you have five
appendages joined together by a unifying body. Each of your arms and legs has three,
you know, segments and they end in stars. Your head has two segments. This structure
is an analogy of a method that could take us not merely to the stars but to the origins of our
own minds and potential for intelligence. And that is my hope and that is my dream.
And today and for some time now that has been my mission to try to return to common human
experience, the unimaginable prodigy, intelligence and abilities that are natural to our humanity.
I think it's time our species stopped pretending that crippled crawling was flight and actually
had some direct experience of taking to the air again together with and for each other and the
history of life on earth. Thank you for joining me. May we return to the skies of the origins of
our minds together. Bye bye for now.
