There's a lot of ambient sound where I am.
I live in an urban center.
So there's a lot of machine noise.
And the sonic environment is filled with boxes and channels.
It's highly articulated so that it can be difficult to tell where sound is coming from.
I've been to one who is orally attentive and intelligent and focused because often one's
first encounter with the sound has been reflected and changed by many angular structures, unlike
anything that ever existed in nature for most of the history of life on Earth.
And I'd like to meander around a rather dangerous hyper topic.
And for the sake of simplicity, I'm going to call it red and blue.
And we can imagine that for plants and animals, especially for insects, color carries information.
Not just information of the kind that we think of, but a kind we would have a hard time imagining
if it weren't for the sounds of human voices living information.
So that my voice doesn't just carry the words, it doesn't completely or explicitly carry
my ideas or my senses or hopes or the completed thought and understanding images of what I
attempt to paint with them, but the very music of it carries something of my soul, the spirit
of my origins and intelligence, my self as an expression of nature, humanity, the history
of life on Earth, time space, the sun, everything.
So in my voice there's dimensions of living information that are probably infinite.
We could perhaps discriminate and analyze some of them, but it would be impossible to quote
analyze all of them because a living mind or an organism of any kind isn't fundamentally
analytical, it's in a superposition over in all possible analyses.
And so no matter what we might analyze, we'd be missing most of what's there for a living
creature.
In the same way that a machine would miss the feelings that would happen if I suddenly
started raising my voice to yell or if I raised the pitch of my voice in the cute way that
we do when we talk to children, a machine might be able to technically understand the
implications of such a move, no machine would feel the feelings that we get when we receive
living information.
Even if it's been artifacted and compressed and transmitted and reflected off of many
angular structures and machines or as with sound in buildings and cities.
So for most of nature, all those creatures with eyes and even those without them because
they all have skin.
And for all those creatures of nature, light and color are living language and in the same
way you can smell a scent and recognize it, they can see and sense aspects of light and
sound as flow that are living information, not merely analytical data, not merely tactical
data, all kinds of impossibly amazing modes and domains of data so that most organisms
on earth live in an unimaginable flowing stream of novelty, endless novelty.
Those humans who know what it means to have had madness or psychedelic experience or a
very unusual dreaming experience or perhaps a moment of authentic ecstatic escape from
the shell we live in, will know something about what I mean by that novelty.
The madness of course is the shadow, it's dark shadow of our relationship with novelty
and the psychedelia is a kind of almost a cartoon version of novelty, much less terrifying
than the real thing.
So for most of nature, except the people like us who have representational minds that are
prone to fly deceptive completeness to concepts and identity, color and light and waves are
an endless foaming turbulent sea of living information and in this sea there are two
fascinating polarities that are easily identifiable even to us with eyes, red and blue.
Now red and blue are not ordinary colors because we know about light and sound waves, a peculiar
feature that in sound in English we call the Doppler shift and I don't know precisely
what it's called, oh yes in light it's called the, we might call it red shift or blue shift.
So that we understand that the frequency of wave like phenomenon has this peculiar quality
where an approaching source to put a three-part symmetry very simply, there are three parts
to this symmetry I'm just going to talk about, the most, the simplest one, an approaching
source will shift, its light will shift toward blue as the frequency increases and a departing
source, the light will shift toward red.
You can hear that happening maybe in the engines that you might hear in the background as the
frequency of the departing source lengthens, I hope it's not the wavelength I may have
it backwards but it's okay I'm not a physicist.
So we can just notice that the color blue kind of tells us that some sort of a source
is approaching and color red tells us that something is departing and the analogous feature
in sound waves is the increase in frequency and decrease in frequency or pitch and again
I'm not a physicist but essentially an increasing pitch indicates approach and a decreasing
pitch indicates departure and so in sound an increasing pitch is blue and a decreasing
pitch is red.
Now you may have heard a bird in the background it goes something like doodly doodly doodly
doodly doodly and what it's doing there is literally going red, blue, red, blue, red,
red, red, red, red, red, in a very peculiar way where it's telling the universe something
about it's own personal sort of speech, not that the word has a person, it's own organismal
presence in red blueness. And it's advertising that with intelligent music. And humans may
think this has one function or something like this. It no more has one function than what
I'm doing now. In fact, compared to what I'm doing now, it has a lot more functions. Humans
are very deceived because we have sort of mono dimensional methods of signaling and
communication. Whereas nature would never waste time in a single dimension. She's always going
to signal in 50. And of course, when we do that authentically, we can't help doing that. As long
as we're speaking instead of typing, there's a bunch of dimensions there that are infinitely rich.
Once we're typing, however, all of those are missing and have to be somehow supplied by the
poor recipient. Yeah. And of course, it's gotten to the point where even when we're speaking,
this doesn't work because we're so focused narrowly on things like the words, possible
interpretations, possible critiques, possible objections, possible inversions, right? So we're
kind of stuck. But isn't it fascinating this feature of redness and blueness? We can see it
all around us in everything we do. We can see it in our feelings as we approach and depart from
one another, or even from situations. Yeah, there's a blue increase in frequency. Yeah,
and we enter the thing, we feel that we may feel frightened, nervous, etc. which I'm having right
now, right? And then we're in the thing. And then as it departs the frequency, or the wavelength,
whatever is correct, shall we say the pitch slows down. And we take a deep breath. And our breathing
might even increase during approach. Yes, our pulse rate might increase in our two chambered
heart. And with which has something analogous to approaching and departing, right? Approaching,
needing oxygen, departing, and also with other peculiar qualities, and departing oxygenated.
Each word that we use has something like this. And the siren is one of the strangest phenomenon,
because a siren is a phenomenon that in sound is going red, blue, red, blue, red, blue. So it's
saying I'm approaching, departing, approaching, departing, approaching, departing. That's a very,
very strange thing to be signaling about. Nothing in nature signals like that. But then,
because the siren is siren is also happening in sound and its source is often moving, it's
triply peculiar, because now it's going red, blue, red, blue in sound. And it just so happens that
we've chosen red and blue lights to put on top of them as well. That's not an accident, by the way.
So it's saying approaching, departing, approaching, departing, approaching, departing, and light,
and in sound. And then we can't detect it in light, but in sound it's Doppler shifting.
And dogs can detect this. Probably all animals detect it, but for dogs it is both terribly
confusing and painful, unless they are deaf. And part of that confusion and pain is the
combination of the Doppler shift effect and the sonic effect of the siren. So isn't it
strange that we would make a vehicle, and that vehicle would be the most urgent vehicle,
the vehicle that interrupts everything, no matter what's going on, no matter who it's
going on for. And on this vehicle we would put red, blue, red, blue, and we would give
it a sound that says approaching, departing, approaching, departing, approaching, departing.
And we would name this after a kind of, after a story figure, after a mythical figure in a story
whose song draws brave souls to their doom with illusory promises, sort of mad seductions
and such, at least in the story I believe of Odysseus. Yeah, the siren is known for this quality,
right, to be both irresistibly compelling and ironically deceptive. And it's very strange
in our culture today that we've sort of seen lots of evidence of this, right, where the
agents who operate and the systems that those agents express that operate the cars with
the red and blue lights that make the sirens in many of the domains, but particularly in
those where they're tasked to protect us. Something strange has happened and they're
attacking us. And so the sound of the siren that once always meant for nearly everyone,
the arrival of aid and intelligence and intervention from above, hopefully in a very good and peaceful
intelligent and human way, has come to mean nearly explicitly the opposite. And then when
we all hear the sound, which those of us who live in cities here regularly, we know this.
We know what the sound, what that red, blue, red, blue represents. Now it's also fascinating
that we have a sort of, there's been some public dialogue about boys and girls in colors. And
we've always sort of, you know, associated blue with boys and pink with girls. And it's
kind of funny because boys tend to be very penetrative, right? And they also tend to
kind of up the ante, so to speak, in general, in all cultures. I mean, you can look around
and find some exceptions and you can find exceptional boys, feminine boys, masculine boys. But whether
we acquire, excuse me, whether we suppose that masculinity and femininity have any specific
behavioral qualities or something like that, we just notice kind of something basic that
the boy is approaching and the girl is receiving, at least during the reproductive act. And
the boy, you know, makes kind of fast pulses, right? Something like an approaching star
does, faster pulses, a star approaching from far away will emit, will shift into the blue.
And the girl makes receptive pulses and much like a star receding into the distance. The
man when upset may yell, of course, this is cultural, you know, yeah, but, and the girl
is perhaps more likely to whisper. And the man may raise his, how should we put it, his
volume and tends to use tone relatively narrowly, whereas the girl will use her music. And again,
this is inculturated too, right? Yeah, we can see that also the girl bleeds and the
man doesn't. The girl makes redness. So that, those features all together really fairly
clearly associate the soothing departure of tension, right, with the woman, right? And
men go to women for the soothing departure of tension, right? So you can kind of see
that blue and red go a lot, lot deeper than it looks on the surface and that even in the
songs of the music of my voice right now, I'm making a complex pattern of approaches
and departures. And also of how should we put it, bridges of gaps between them. And
not just in one domain, but in many at once, right? Not just in the domain of having said
things. If we're at all, if I'm at all succeeding, your mind is following itself to new ways of
seeing and thinking about the nature of waves and signals in reality, rather than in, you
know, how we conceive of things. We have all these metrics, yards and feet, seconds and
hours, things like this. But in reality, there are two metrics of unity. Around here, the
speed of sound is what represents one in terms of speed down here in this medium. And
in electromagnetic waves and longer distances, the speed of light represents one. So all
other speeds should be portions of those, right? Those are the fundamental metrics. In
many cases, we've replaced those fundamental metrics with things like feet and miles and
yards and seconds, hours, days, months, calendars, etc. But nature tells us what unity means,
what one is. And that should have priority over all of our systems. And when it does,
we would easily see that addition is blue and subtraction is red. I mean, multiplication
is blue and division is red. But there are situations in which those properties may change
and become more complex. We wouldn't say boys are blue and girls are red. We would notice
that masculinity, perhaps, has peculiar obvious aspects of constant approaching with tension
and also a kind of a red inside that draws the man to discover the red inside himself
in the feminine, in space, in the gaps between things, in silence, in origin. And we would
see where the waves settle down. And the woman, or not the woman, but the woman in our figure
here, we're just making a figure, we're not talking about men and women. The woman in
our figure, she likes excitement. She wants adventure. She would like a really fun way
to make those waves come faster and such so that she gets to sense what she's like,
what the blue core of her being is like, and is as herself. So truly, the red within the
blue and the blue within the red, and all the myriad ways that they can become people,
not just as a person, but as a person, as a person, as a person, as a person. And that
is a person, but as a moment of a person, as a moment of personation in a situation.
So we can see no one's explicitly blue. No one's explicitly red. It's impossible, right?
In fact, most of reality is the conversation between them. In billions of dimensions, we've
never even been, we've been a bit too timid to approach, especially in language. And for
the purposes, we ordinarily pursue such questions. There's a gentle mist now in the air. And it's
filled with green signals in light to my eyes. And it's filled with green signals in light
to my eyes. And the songs of many birds, they're buried in the noise of machines, also in dimensions
we cannot see. And they're being reflected back to me by the edges of buildings. But even
after having been thus processed, artifacted, contended with, inhibited, buried, counterfeited,
and re-represented, when a living ear is in that field, it's filled with green signals.
There's an incredible intelligence of conversation there. And it's amazing that understanding
color and unity, color, waves in sound, waves in light, is fundamental to the possibilities
of our physics, language, relationships, mathematics, music.
Meaning, heartbeats, bodies, cells. This is a unimaginably universal pivot. And I'm grateful
to have been able to orbit it a bit creatively with you today. So, thank you. I guess the
signal here goes toward red.
