So, I'm Darren Stevenson.
I'm here with my dear friend, Ryan Furstiver, Nitsutapi, man.
And we're having some discussions about early attempts to repatriate cultural material.
Things that have been essentially stolen under the idea that these are natural history items and then ensconced in museums.
So, Ryan, please start wherever you want. We could go back to the meteorite situation if you're willing and keep a book.
I'll talk about the meteorite, but maybe I just want to tell a Harvard story.
Okay, great.
Because that's where we were. We can return to New York in the history when we get there.
And I know for my camera thing, I'm going to fuck this all up, but you're just going to have to deal with that.
All right, so in 1993, I started working with the, I've been in 1994, I started working with the Blackfit Tribal Business Council in Browning, Montana.
I was a student in Boston at the time. I have Blackfit heritage and I was studying, studying all things Blackfoot while I was in school.
And one of the things that was going on at the time, I think it was 1993, there was a, in the US, they had proposed this Land Consolidation Act for the tribes.
And what they were thinking was, you know, when the reservations were first established in the states, each male had a household was given so many acres of land proportioned out to, you know, I think it was like 214 acres or something.
But it's since split up, split up, split up through the generations so that now, you know, somebody coming in might only have an acre of land if that, you know, and so it's hard to make money off of that land when you don't have much of it.
And so the government was proposing, well, let's re-consolidate those original tracks and then have the families that live on that space who are obviously, you know, closely related to the original title owner, have them come up with some kind of business plan to work that land.
And then support them to do that. So this was the 1993 Land Consolidation Act. And I thought it sounded really fishy, you know, because I'd like, what? You got to take those original land tracks back into trust.
And then these guys got to like figure out a business plan. This is a First Nations reserve. What are you thinking, right? Like, what's up here? This sounds fishy. And a lot of people in Indian country were thinking that at the time, you know.
And so I looked into it and because I was going to school in Boston, I was fortunate to have access to Federal Reserve libraries.
And so I could go look up the communications, the transcripts of communications between the Bureau of Land Management and the Bureau of Indian Affairs and, you know, the Senate and the Bureau of Indian Affairs, everybody that was involved in bringing this act to Congress and having it passed.
I could see every step of the way and their plans. I got their plans on paper and everything. And it was wicked, dude. They had five tribes that they were set up to start this Land Consolidation Act on.
And the Blackfeet Reservation in Montana was one of them. And the Bureau of Land Management had mapped out where all of the important subsurface resources were.
Of course.
And so those were the places where they were going to do the experiment, take it into trust.
And their whole plan was to mine that shit while they had it in trust.
And it would be a long time because it's hard to get those families to work together, you know, on those original land trusts that have been broken up over 100 years now, you know.
And so I brought all of the paperwork to Maj. Walters, who was on the Blackfeet Tribal Council at the time, an Earl old person who was the chair.
He's the longest, you know, he was used to, he is the chief of the Blackfeet in Montana.
He's passed now. He just passed the other year. But for most of my life, he was the chief of the Blackfeet in Montana.
And he always had, I always had his blessings with the shit I was doing. But I brought this stuff to them.
They went to Washington D.C. with it and shut it down.
Okay. And that kind of gave me an inroads with tribal government down there.
Like I didn't do it on purpose to like, you know, create any inroads or anything like that.
But that's what it gave me some relationships through doing that research that I just thought needed to be done.
Because I thought the Sutton bullshit's going on here, you know, and it sure was.
Yeah, it's like a re-colonization.
Yeah. Yeah. Well, the process still continues today.
Of course.
Yeah.
And by the way, back then, your name was Ryan Heavyhead.
Yeah.
Well, no, it was Ryan Hancock.
Ah.
That was even before.
Okay.
Yeah, my name was Ryan Hancock.
And so.
Anyway, I helped them stop that Land Consolidation Act from being instituted.
And basically, you know, mine in the shit out of the reserves.
And then I was invited to some things in the, in the subsequent summer season in Montana that gave me access to black foot art and ceremony.
And I wanted to know more once I once I started, you know, experiencing and seeing that I wanted to know more about it.
So I was going into my last year of undergraduate studies in Boston and I proposed to my mentor there that I do some kind of honors thesis regarding black foot art.
And he gave me the summer to think about what I want to do.
And I never came up with anything, you know, very interesting when I came back to him at the end of the summer.
You know, I had my experiences.
Up here to talk about, but I hadn't reviewed any literature done, you know, I didn't have a scholarly question at all.
I just wanted to know more about black foot art.
My whole interest in getting into anthropology and native studies to begin with was just an identity quest, you know.
So for me, it was just like, learn more, learn more.
So I had seen some things I wanted to learn more.
And he gave me a stack of books when I came back at the end of summer with no good question.
He gave me a stack of books and he says, go away for three weeks and you read these.
You have to read them all and you have to come here and be prepared to talk about them.
And then we'll formulate some kind of question, right?
Together.
So I went away and a lot of these books that he gave me were books that were problematizing.
Museum and academies work with Indigenous art all together.
And in there was included a little like privately published thing where somebody had gone and surveyed all of the museums in England, Scotland and the United States.
And put together like an inventory of all of the California Indian items in those museums.
Just as a resource for the tribes, basically.
So I went to the museum.
I went to the museum.
I went to the museum.
I went to the museum.
I went to the museum.
I went to the museum.
I went to the museum.
I went to the museum.
Just as a resource for the tribes, basically.
It was called Times Flotsam.
I even forget the author's name, but it's called Times Flotsam.
And it was just this inventory of European museum stuff.
And when I like, I read a lot of good stuff in those books he gave me.
But when I seen that little thing, I was like, oh, there's something I can do.
It's right back to that.
Just like I had just done with the land consolidation.
Here's something I can contribute.
What if I found out where all the black foot stuff is?
And I did up an inventory and I give it to the tribe.
Right.
This was the idea that I got out of his stack of stuff.
And I ended up getting a little grant through my university to carry out that research.
I went to try to find out, like, okay, where do you find out where the museums are that have black foot material culture?
If you wanted to look for black foot material culture in the world, in its museums,
what resource would you turn to to tell you where to go?
Right.
Nothing.
There were these like, there's these like phone book sized nation by nation museum guides
that have these listings that the best you get is like native North American,
you know, native North American culture, native North American, you know, whatever, anthropology or ethnology or whatever.
Right.
You don't get tribe by tribe.
And so what I had to do is go through all of those world country guides,
find the places that had native North American collections, copy their addresses and all that shit,
and then send them a letter, every one of them.
So I sent over 4,000 letters.
What?
Yeah.
I had, I had a little grant from my, from my, my, because I was doing an honors thesis.
I had wicked like, you know, they were going to support me, whatever.
But they had a little small, like undergraduate honors thesis.
It was like, I don't know, a thousand bucks or something, but bottle of stamps.
And I sent out 4,000 letters.
I bought a post office box in Boston.
And I collect, and I got Earl old person to write me a letter from Montana from the, from the Blackfeet tribe.
He's the chief saying, I have his blessings.
Please give this guy our inventory of what's in your museum.
And I start getting dump loads of mail from all around the world, you know.
And then it was interesting because some places that you wouldn't think would respond to you responded.
Like for instance, the Vatican, they gave me a really good response.
They sent me photographs of everything that they have, along with the, you know, descriptions and accessions information.
And they were like, they were very clean and, you know, this is it, right?
This is what we got.
But then there were museums like, like Harvard Peabody Museum, for instance, which was, you know, like within walking distance across the river from where I lived in Brookline.
And they didn't send me anything.
And, you know, for months, I didn't, I didn't get any response from them.
And I'm like, they're one of the major North American museums for, for indigenous collections.
Like why, why haven't they given me a response?
And so one day I decided to do like a strategic spy mission and go to the museum and see what they had on the map.
So I went over there, walked through their exhibit and I've seen for blackfoot material, they had a women's society headdress.
It's like, it's like a buffalo headdress with horns.
They had yellow kidney.
He was a beaver man from Montana in the turn of the century.
They had yellow kidneys, scalp lock suit.
Like his buckskin suit with the scalp locks from the Scarface story.
They had a couple of horn spoons and a pair of moccasins on display.
As well.
And so I went home and I called them up the next day.
And I said, hey, you know, I'm a researcher from University of Massachusetts.
And I've, I sent you guys a letter a couple of months back.
I haven't had any response asking for your inventory of blackfoot materials as part of a project.
That I'm doing with the black feet nation from Montana.
And I, you know, I'm just wondering when you guys are going to respond.
And then they got, they said, okay, hold on the line.
They got, they got whoever need to talk to me.
One of their curators came back.
I think her name was Susan if I remember right.
But anyway, I'll just call her Susan.
So Susan came back and said, came on the phone and said, well,
we didn't respond to you because we really don't have anything of significance at the P body.
That's black foot.
I mean, we have a pair of moccasins and a couple of horn spoons.
And I said, that's funny because I was in your museum just yesterday.
Looking through what you have on exhibit.
And I've seen that there's a women's society headdress there.
And you have yellow kidneys scalp lock suit that's considered a sacred bundle.
And I would like to come make an appointment to come to your museum and look at your other accessions information and find out what else you have that's black foot in your story.
And so she went away for a couple of minutes from the phone, Susan, and then came back and said, well, it takes, you know, like here at Harvard, you have to schedule months in advance to get to come and do that kind of research.
And so, you know, if you want to do that.
And I say, yeah, I'm here.
So schedule it, you know, put it on the calendar.
She went away for about three more minutes, came back on the phone and said, can you come in next week?
Well, she was just bluffing me, dude.
It's all a fucking bluff.
So anyway, she schedules me to come in there the next week and I go in and I've just got, you know, a notebook and shit.
Like, this is like reading the internet and shit really, you know, like going on, I don't know, we just barely.
And so anyway, I went in and I went through, you know, their files.
Susan met me in their accessions department and gave me this paper.
And which had a list of all their Blackfoot items.
They'd finally put together a list for me.
And at the very top of that paper was human remains, which there was a skull there.
And then right underneath that, the next item on the list was a beaver bundle.
And then went down from there.
There were several sacred items, bundles, and then, you know, a lot of other things that the collection was significant.
So I told her, well, I'd like to look at the accessions files on this beaver bundle first thing, you know.
And so she gave me that and I started taking all the notes.
They got that bundle for like 300 bucks or something, you know, from the, they got it from, what is it then?
Denver Art Museum, you know, there was a trade that went on and Denver Art Museum got from Madge Walters.
And Madge Walters was this lady from San Francisco, who was very rich, who went to,
but had some kind of terminal cancer. She went to Browning.
She met with a Swimsunder. I think it might have been Mike Swimsunder's dad.
The late Mike Swimsunder's dad, who's in my lineage for the beaver bundle.
He brought her to Blood Tribe, where she got to witness and participate in the Sundance.
And she connected at that time with three young people here.
Eugene Creighton, Frank Redcro, and
he was a woman, I want to say Ethel, but he's a big sorrel horse.
Madge Walters was her last name, big sorrel horse. Three people that Madge Walters, young people, like in their like early 20s.
And she connected with them. They all had parents and close relatives in major positions in the societies and in the Sundance and such, and they started selling her things.
Sometimes they would fake it. They would make the shit themselves and sell her a replica that she couldn't tell the difference.
But going through the museums, we can tell the difference. Sometimes they would sell her that stuff, but a lot of times, once someone with a major bundle was passing on,
they would go in and acquire that bundle for a very small amount of money.
Sometimes 35, 50 bucks.
Can I interrupt you with a question here for a moment?
Sure.
Explain to the people listening something about what a beaver bundle is.
Alright, so beaver bundle, for instance, the thing that I ended up repatriating from Harvard in this story is the embodiment of the original treaty between human beings and animals.
You know, in this area, like the Blackfoot territory of North America, which is substantial, it's like the Upper Missouri and Upper Saskatchewan drainage basins is two major, the headwaters of two major river systems.
And this goes back to like when the beaver bundle came in was the same time that dogs were domesticated because they're part of that story.
So that's how old this goes back.
And about how long is that to go?
I have no idea.
I mean, I can tell you what the scientists think.
I don't know what if they're right.
Did I make a guess?
This before there are horses, right?
Oh, 5,000 to 8,000 years ago.
That's what I was looking for.
Yeah, at least.
At least to have domesticated dogs.
Here.
And not only that, but like, I think it's even longer than that, because here you have like Eniskim at sites, which are, which are, which are buffalo stones.
They're like these fossils that look like buffaloes, but they, they're part of a ceremony that is, that became part of the beaver bundle after the beaver bundle already existed.
And those things are found, you know, those Eniskim are found at bison sites here in Alberta going back like nine, 10,000 years.
So I think it's all the beaver bundles even older than that.
Like, you know, very, very old.
It's the first medicine bundle in the Blackfoot tradition.
I know it like nobody knows a lot of people out there don't know what medicine bundles are, whatever, but you know, in this case, without going through the whole, the whole origin of that, it's really a bunch of skins from animals who gave knowledge to humans in a treaty agreement situation.
Yeah, this is the humans and the animals coming together in relation.
Yeah, under the auspices of an agreement that they have together that they form together and the bundles the embodiment of those agreements if I'm understanding something.
Yep.
Okay.
Yeah. And so, you know, that bundle is very fluid.
Um, new, like animals bring new things in animals and plants, bring new things into the bundles through humans.
And then humans have experiences that the beaver bundles end up kind of like,
like say somebody has has an experience where they themselves are given some kind of very important knowledge
from an animal, like in a spiritual way, like they have a dream about it, and it's vivid and the animal tells them in their head, talking to, you know, like,
and a beaver bundle owner might look at that person and watch them for a little bit and see what happens with that.
And if it seems to be that they that they think that their experience was very valid, they got something beneficial that should, you know, that the people should adopt.
Then the beaver man, woman might go to that person and and ask to kind of buy that gift into the bundle.
And so the beaver bundles constantly absorbing things and then and then putting things out too.
So if they have somebody has that new experience, say they have experience where,
you know, like what has happened, the thunder, you know, the fun, the thunder came in conflict with people and the humans relationships with animals is what kind of saved them from that conflict.
The animals dealt with the thunder on behalf of the people, the crows in particular,
and the thunder was made to kind of make amends to the people for for something it had, you know, it had done.
So it was giving the people a bundle that would protect them from it, you know, not only thunder, but it's close associates, which included bears.
And in order for that person's experience to be legitimated and brought kind of into the Orthodox tradition so that the bundle was like validated by the community, the beaver bundle would feed it and give some things from the beaver bundle into that bundle
to validate it.
So beaver bundles kind of the hub, hey,
you know, because the original, what matters is the treaty between the living beings here. That is the beaver bundle.
And also it's a kind of library of transfers.
Yeah, totally.
Transfer meaning when something profoundly sacred powerful or meaningful is given out or brought in.
Yeah.
Yeah, it's a ceremonial process to the transfer of course.
Yeah.
Okay, let me ask you to pause for right here. Can you hold your thought.
I will.
The reason is the recording is about to end so I have to restart it to continue recording.
Cool. So hold your thought and we'll be right back.
All right, so I just want to clarify a few things before we continue. We're going to go to the bookmark of the woman in San Francisco.
Right.
And we're going to say again.
Matt Walters.
We're still talking a little bit about the beaver bundle and I want to just hear from you.
What is the meaning of a transfer we've said a little bit about what the beaver bundle is explain if you will a little bit about transfer.
Well, you know, transfer is is being given a way of doing something.
If it's a major transfer.
A lot of times it's being given a new way of life.
When it's a beaver bundle transfer, that's what it is. Hey, it's being given a whole new way of life and a new role. It's a, it's a
What do you call it?
It's a, it can be a rite of passage. It can be as simple as somebody teaching you how to make a sandwich.
It can be as complicated as, you know, someone training you in something extremely specialized that maybe two or three people on the face of the earth know about, you know,
all that stuff can be transfer, you know, when it when it comes to the black foot way of life and stuff.
You really need to be exposed to those bundles in order to get the core philosophies.
You don't have to take care of a bundle necessarily.
Just, you know, be in the community and exposed to them and such to get some of those core philosophies and if you from, you know, if you don't do that you can be black foot and not be black foot almost.
You know, you can, you can, you can, you can be here and grow up here and well not really everybody here is exposed to the bundles we all we all got that core core shit but if you if you never, if you never lived here and been exposed to that then
you know, it's, it's, you know, you don't got the culture, you don't got it, right. It's just it's, it's in, it's in those bundles. It's not a religious thing so much.
It's cultural but it has these kind of religious underpins, you know, because you can connect all of these things to these bundles, these bundles have these origins that are, you know, very like legendary origins.
Mythological things.
You know, animals and people sitting down and making treaties and shit, you know, yes. Yeah.
I want to get back to Harvard but absolutely.
I just want to say I don't want to, I don't want to leave, I don't want to leave questions unanswered. Do you have a couple things and feel free to correct me because you know, it's an outsider.
Right.
But the bundle seems to me to be something that we don't really have in the West, an idea of.
It's like a library of histories and relationships and traditions that is itself alive.
Yeah, it's a living thing.
This is what I want to be really clear about.
Yeah, the bundles are living being and when you're taking care of it, that's a living being that you're taking care of.
Yes.
And you have to nurture it.
And you have to tend to like, you know,
everything like all the kind of crazy shit that you would with any human being, living being.
It is not, we don't have a category for this in English. There's no category for this.
Only the category of living being, but never we would think in English that something that we would be likely to view as an object would be a living being.
Yeah, and there's like, we're going to get into some of that too.
When we talk about Harvard.
Okay.
I just wanted to just take a moment and clarify a few of those unusual things because without understanding this, you're not going to really have any hope of even conceptualizing what a bundle is.
No, well, you know, like a lot of people have asked me to try to explain concisely what the beaver bundle or any bundle is.
It's really difficult with a beaver bundle.
The most concise explanation that I have is that it is the living embodiment of a treaty between the humans and the animals.
It is tangibly a role of mostly animal skins and other artifacts that have come into that bundle.
Paint, tobacco, tobacco seeds, stick calendars.
With the beaver bundle, there's a lot of things wrapped in it, but it's mostly animal skins.
And the ceremony is a reenactment of the treaty.
And, but, you know, interestingly, the dances follow a progression like an annual phenological progression of animal mating.
So that the dances are mostly animal dances.
Well, they're all animal dances, but they follow a sequence through the season that you're speaking toward.
Whenever you're in Blackfoot ceremony, you're always speaking toward whatever's happening and going to happen in the like very near future.
And that's, you know, that's just a renewal of the treaty every time that goes on.
So the beaver bundle does this twice a year at the end of summer and at the end of winter.
There's just the two seasons really formally recognized and there's words for that transition.
They go and go between them like fall and spring and fall, but they're not really seasons per se, you know, their transition points between summer and winter.
Between time.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Well, it's, it's just the transition.
There's not even, there's not even a between time.
There's not a gap.
There's summer and then winter boom, boom.
It feels like that here too.
Like when he thought story comes, you know, the cold arrives.
That's what it's literally called, and it does boom, and it's here.
You're you were in summer last week.
You were wearing shorts and t-shirt.
And now you got snow and it's sub zero.
You know, and then
associated with each of the
beings or elements in the beaver bundle. There are songs.
Yeah.
Well, that's the thing like each of the animals.
Well, the beaver bundle is the thing.
Nobody knows how many songs are in the beaver bundle.
Hundreds and hundreds have come and gone.
But there is a core group of songs from the, from the original
treaty and some of the major things that have happened.
That all of the beaver bundles have kind of like.
Like, because there's more than one beaver bundle at this point.
Right.
There was, there was originally the one and an origin story to that.
And then other people had experiences where they were told to create beaver
bundles and such.
But they had to do it through the original.
Right.
So it's all got the original link to it.
Right.
It's all got something tangibly, like physically from the original.
I want to imagine the situation where, for example, you have a fire.
Yeah.
And the fire has been started from a pole from a previous fire.
Yeah.
And it goes all the way back to the first fire.
Yeah.
And so this fire right in front of you has the first fire in it.
Yep.
By analogy.
Exactly.
Exactly.
Yeah.
Precisely.
Yeah.
Yeah, that's good.
Yeah.
Because things, things wear out in the bundles, like physical things.
Of course.
You have to replace them.
We're talking 10,000 years plus maybe, you know.
Yeah.
You have to replace things when they wear out.
But it's like the fire, like you say, hey, it's the same fire.
You know, you get after, you have to feed more wood in that fucking fire.
Right.
Yes.
Yeah.
So.
So yeah, the beaver bundle.
The animals.
All gave their robes.
Which is their, which is a symbol of protection.
Right.
Their robes.
What they, what they use to protect camouflage themselves, all that stuff.
Think about that.
You know, that's what they, they gave that.
And then they sing a song or many songs.
And in each of those songs were other things like how they get their medicines, how they
hunt their foods, how they make their homes, how they live with their spouses, how they
raise their children, like all of these kinds of things.
When, when human beings, like in this story of the, of the beaver bundle origin, the animals
looked at the human beings as the most recent arrival, basically.
Like a very recent arrival and ill equipped, ill adapted.
We can't run fast.
We can't swim very well.
We can can't climb trees very well.
We can't fly at all.
You know, we're weak.
We're soft.
We're slow.
We don't have a road.
We don't have a road.
We don't really have no road.
They could have called us like no road.
Okay, but all right.
In the origin story of the beaver bundle, there's something about not having a rope.
Because there's a point where not ski, who's the tiger salamander, steps up to
the bundle and right away, the other animals start mocking him because he doesn't have a
rope to give.
He's not given anything physical into the bundle.
There's no rope.
You don't got no fur, no feathers, no nothing.
And so the animals were mocking him.
They're telling me he's just naked.
He doesn't have anything.
Why is he even here?
I don't understand it, you know, and he got mad.
And he's saying this song, which I know.
And then he, and then he left the lodge.
His wife was still there and she hung out.
I don't know why she didn't leave, but that's her.
Anyway, he left.
And the song that he's saying brought on a deluge rainstorm so heavy that the lake
that they were camped next to the waters were rising and threatening to flood out
the ceremony for the rest of the night, the whole, like, you know, the whole tree.
And so the animals begged the salamander's wife to bring him back and stop the rain.
And she did.
And then with another song.
Which I know.
Those were his contributions to the bundle, those songs.
And then right after him.
Ironically.
The frog that the chorus from stood up to contribute to the bundle.
And the Nam ski.
The tiger salamander who just been mocked.
Said the same criticisms to the frog.
The fuck are you doing here?
You don't got any, anything to give to this bundle.
You don't even, you're just naked.
You don't, you don't got anything to offer.
And he, and he pushed him.
He pushed him on his chest.
And the, the frog fell down on his back.
And he fell down.
And he, and he had his hands up like this.
By his head.
With four fingers on one side and three on the other.
And he, he told the animals. Yeah.
He told them.
Seven.
I'm giving seven winter moons.
To the humans during which all of your hides.
All of your, all of your beautiful robes are going to be so thick.
So lovely.
The humans are going to be hunting you and wanting to kill you.
Kind of a curse.
Because let me be clear about what he's saying. He's saying, um,
It was winter.
All of you people who have robes,
your robes are going to be so thick and warm that the humans will
hunt you for those robes.
Yep.
So what he's giving to the humans is the capacity to wear the robes
of the other animals in a way.
Yeah. Well, he's, he's giving them a very long winter.
Oh yeah.
But he's given everybody a long winter.
I see.
And the frog is the one that hops between the seasons.
You know, when it comes to the moons, there's a,
there's a black foot moon called Metsi Kapisaki,
some, the frog moon.
And that's the one that it's either a winter or summer moon,
depending on whether it's a leap year and it will leap into the
summer if it's a, if it's a leap year, the leap year,
the leap, the extra moon, the 13 moon always comes in the winter.
As far as I've come to know.
Between two specific other moons.
What's that?
Between two specific other moons.
Yes. Well, the frog is always where, where he is.
He's between, yeah.
It's between Saaki, some, the duck moon.
And Apiskitsa, the flower moon.
Ah.
That's where the frog will be.
That's when the frogs mate.
A lot of the, you know,
all of the stuff around the beaver bundle has to do with the
mating time.
A lot of it. Yeah.
Yeah. That's it. That's the recreation. Yeah.
Okay. I have a question.
Yep.
What did the humans give?
The humans gave a scalp.
You want to hear the human story? Yes, please.
All right.
Because all of the animals,
they're giving a whole library to the humans.
Yeah.
Making a treaty with them.
What do the humans contribute? And what is the agreement?
This is what I want.
Okay.
And we'll get back to match, but this stuff's important.
Yep.
There are.
Two different.
Human contributions into the beaver bundle.
Both of them are scalps.
One of them comes from the.
Scabby round robe story.
But the scalp is not really the important thing that comes from
that story. So I'm not going to tell that story,
even though that's one of the scalps that you'll find in the beaver
bundle and some other stuff from scabby round robe as well.
This is, this is another whole like.
Another, a big story that happened.
That brought a whole bunch of new things into the beaver bundle.
There's several in, you know,
you can imagine thousands of years of history,
how many times your main corpus has to change and have, you know,
resolution.
There are still core moments.
There are like heartbeat over those thousand years where there's
something very core that is transferred.
Yeah.
Or included.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So a big woman him.
Scabby round robe is one of these stories that some of that stuff
comes from.
So some beaver bundles have scalps in them associated with scabby
round robe.
There's a, there's a other scalp in there.
In some of the bundles.
And, and Mahoney in my bundle has this scalp.
And it comes from a story about a pistol book.
How old child.
Who was a big gunny.
One of the Blackfoot tribes is called be gunny.
That was his tribe.
He had this dream.
This is way, way back.
You know,
I don't even want to try to imagine what, how many years ago or
whatever.
But he had a dream.
That him and his.
His, you know, close brothers and cousins and stuff.
Went and really.
Super successfully raided.
Their southern neighbor.
The petiques in that ones.
The snake people.
The show show me.
And so.
He convinced his brothers and cousins, let's do this.
Let's go down there.
I know it's going to be like we're going to, we're going to come home
so rich.
We're going to steal all their, all their stuff where you get all
these, you know,
Vowlers and stuff.
Let's go do this.
So they all start following him.
They pack up.
And they're going on a, on a, on a multi day.
Mission to go down there and try to actualize this dream.
But.
Every time they sleep and they travel mostly at night.
Hey.
When they're going on these raids, they travel at night and they
sleep in the day in the, in the, like.
Usually in the, in the thickets.
You know, find some coolly with.
Like really close.
Choke cherries are down by the river.
With willow, close willow and stuff.
And you, and you just sleep during the day and keep cover and
then travel by night.
Make your way to the enemy.
And then.
Or to, I don't know, it's not even enemy in black foot.
It's more like opponent.
Cause all like the language is all in gaming.
And there was a system.
There was a, there was a system, a point system.
Which I don't, I don't have all in my head.
But killing people was low on the point system.
Yeah.
You know, high on the point system is taking away.
You know, vital resources.
You know, take away.
Namah gun is what they call a coup in black foot,
but that's literally acquiring a gun.
Yeah.
Taking their, taking their, their, uh, what, you know,
whatever that is, whether it was a bow before and whatever,
taking their weapon, you know, taking their stuff that they
used to, um, to retaliate against you and to hunt.
Like it's all, like back then it's all very utilitarian too.
You know, because the more, you know,
the more resources he got, um, the,
the bigger guy you were, like,
especially once the horses came in, hey,
horses really changed everything.
Um, I think this story is like way pre-horse though.
It's certainly pre-gun by a long shot.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So anyway, these guys are going down south to,
uh, to raid their enemy or to raid their opponent,
the snake people.
And every time they sleep, the brothers, the cousins and stuff,
they start having their own dreams and their dreams aren't as nice.
Wow.
They're fearful dreams.
Wow.
They see themselves dying.
They see bad things happen, you know,
or they see, you know, they're scared when they wake up from
their dreams and so pretty soon, like, you know,
a couple of days in people start turning them back.
They're not, they're not going to participate, you know,
and his closest cousins and brothers stick with him further,
but eventually them too, they're just,
they're all having dreams that are ominous and bad, you know.
And, uh, they, they're like, Hey, man,
like we want to trust your dream and everything,
but like we got trust ours too.
And so, um, so they back off.
Uh, and he's like, all right, go ahead.
You know, my, uh, you know,
you know, my relatives are not worth anything.
Do you want to have some food? Go.
I have a, I have a dog here that's a pet sitting.
Ah, yes.
Who's been here now 24 hours and not eating.
Yeah.
You can't tell whether where the owner is if he gets to go home,
but if he's coming, why is this happening?
Oh, it's a great stress down.
There we go.
You're going to eat, aren't you? There you go, Jimmy.
Oh, um,
Oh, where are we?
His, his cousins have turned back.
Oh yeah.
Now he's on his own.
Yeah.
I'll child.
He's on his own.
And then a storm approaches.
He's decided in his mind, he's going to go.
Down to the opponents.
And he's just going to go write nuts on them.
And do, you know,
like he's probably going to die.
It's a suicide mission.
He's going to let them take his life because his,
he's so like him, you know,
humiliated and upset with his relatives for not continuing with him.
Anyway, the storm is coming.
And he finds a crag.
In some rock.
In the Coolies to climb into.
And you can go deep into this crag to get out of the weather.
But it gets, you know, dark, dark.
In there.
Pitch black dark.
In the cave.
And.
In that cave, he's kind of like, you know,
the storm is raging and shit outside and he's just kind of like
hanging out in the cave.
And then he bumps into something.
And he starts feeling it.
And then he realizes this, this is another fucking guy in here.
Like standing right here, you know.
And his heart's racing.
He doesn't know who the heck this is.
It could be an enemy anything.
He starts like frantically kind of feeling this guy.
He's already touched him and felt him up a little bit to like,
before he came to the realization that's a fucking person, you know.
So he starts touching him a little bit more to try to figure out.
Like, does he have anything on him that I can tell what,
you know, what kind of person this is.
Something like symbols and shit, you know.
And he can't find nothing.
In the dark.
And so ultimately he takes a risk.
And he goes like this.
And he rubs his fist on the guy's cheek.
Like this.
This is the sign for be gunny.
Which is his tribe.
He was telling him who he was.
Which is a huge risk.
And the other guy puts his finger on owl child's chest.
And does the zigzag.
Cross his chest.
And he's telling him he's bit sick.
See now.
The snake person.
That's their opponent.
And so again, like.
Owl child's heart starts racing.
Because he thinks this is it.
Like any second he's getting killed.
Or kill, kill or get killed, you know.
But he doesn't, he doesn't, he doesn't move on the guy.
And then they, they,
they keep trying to like use.
Sign language on each other's bodies.
To try to start communicating things.
And when the storm lets up, they go outside.
And they go full into playing sign language.
Which was the lingua franca.
Of the time, you know.
And.
They realize that they actually have super similar stories.
This guy was coming up north to raid them.
With his brothers and all that shit.
And his guys turned back and chickened out and all that.
They're mirroring.
Yeah, they're very, they're very much mirroring.
There isn't really any big difference between them, so to speak.
You know, the symbols.
You know, that couldn't even show up in the cave.
What the fuck do those really mean?
You know, why are we hanging on to those?
We're not really very different.
They start like.
They start a real conversation.
Maybe we should.
Maybe we shouldn't be opponents.
Yeah.
So they divide, they put together a scheme.
Each one.
Is going to cut.
A little piece of scalp.
A braid like.
Off the other guy.
And take it home.
And tell the story about the, how they, you know.
Went.
You know, even though everybody abandoned, they went there and they
fought the enemy and all that shit.
And.
And then they were going to, they knew that.
People would question.
Because they're each missing a breed too.
Right?
Of course.
So they devised a plan to bring their people back to meet at the
certain spot under the auspices that they were going to prove.
They're going to show them the dead body of the enemy.
You know.
And they went and actualized this.
And brought their people back and visit.
There's a whole long story.
About the kind of interaction that happened there.
But suffice to say they ended up.
The two guys owl child and the.
And the.
And the snake man.
They traded lives.
They traded lodges.
They traded wives.
They traded everything.
And so.
And so.
Like they just entered into each other's tribe.
And took on that person's identity.
And then they encouraged people to.
Camp together for a little while at the end of that summer.
And make relationships, which they did.
Everybody was getting along.
Many long-term relationships were made.
Hold on.
I gotta call my dogs.
Oh.
Jenny's the Dalmatian.
She ate.
And then wanted to go out. That's good.
She's been going out, but she hadn't eaten yet.
She'd been too stressed.
Oh, Jenny.
Let's go in.
Let's go.
So a lot of good relationships were made.
And at the end of the season, kind of, when the sea,
like they had this, like you can't campus one big camp for very
long, you know, that's very harvest time.
Right.
Only when there's enough resources to feed everybody.
Yeah.
Right.
So as, as winters approach, and you got to break up in the
smaller, smaller camps, and it sucks for everybody because they
like to be together, you know.
So, so the people in this new camp were kind of grieving that
they had to leave each other.
The teenagers were especially having difficulty dealing with
the younger people.
Having difficulty dealing with the separation.
And so while everybody was already starting to move out,
they kind of lingered on and played some more games together.
And one of the games that they played was a hoop and arrow
game.
Where you throw this, this ring is dividing into different
segments and stuff.
And then you try to pass a dart through an arrow through it,
you know, and depending on what part of the hoop you hit,
you get different points and that kind of thing.
At the end of the game, two boys seemed to be tied,
but they disagreed that they were tied.
They each thought they actually beat the other and they start
arguing about it.
And in the end, the big gunny boy picked up a weapon,
I think a stick, something simple,
and killed that snake boy, the younger guy.
And that rekindled the whole feud that they had supposedly
overcome.
And, you know, so for me, like, there's, you know,
and this is what, like we have, we have a dance in the beaver
bundle that has that ring that they played with.
And the scalp.
And it involves the links, which is the embodiment of Morningstar.
The links dances that scalp around the hoop and stick.
And, but the song.
The song that goes with it is a, is a song about, you know,
the, it's a, it's now used as a victory song.
But it's a, it's a song that says, you know, the snake man,
he cried anyway.
And it's, it's a weird thing, like I get from this story, like,
there's very court, like, you know, basic anthropological stuff
that I get from this story, you know, like we are, we are all
human.
We are all, like, basically the same in all of our motivations
and the ways that we carry out things and all of this weird,
we're, you know, at core, we're all the same.
Imagine that these symbols divide us like the visual thing.
First of all, and if we can take out that element,
and all, you know, if we can take out that element, we can get
much closer, but then the next divisory issue is distance.
It reminds me of the divisions in the hoop about saying it's
important.
Also.
We got about very well,
we got about one minute and then I have to record again.
okay can you hold your thought here well this is this basically the end of this
story that's the owl child story and that's what the owl child scalp in the
bundle yes yeah well no his enemies scalp well he's a snake
snake-boy scalp the snake-boy scalp with the with the hoop sometimes also with
the with the dart but what does it mean the snake boy cried anyway the snake
boy died this yeah yeah well he cried anyway the snake the snake man because
he when he was being killed you like in the Q games the point systems if you're
getting killed and you cry you know that's not good okay we have to stop
there hold that thought I'll be back okay all right we're back okay I want to go
back to your question what did the humans contribute to the bundle and what
was the agreement what were the agreements also yeah that's that's where
I wanted to go okay because I recognize yeah I was thinking in terms of that the
tangible bundle which would be the scalps like the humans the humans robe is in
there too in in essence but but yeah the agreement in like what happened was
there wasn't gonna be an agreement like the the the animals had stolen this this
human's wife this human what's so happy the white grass was his name which is
still a family name here they had stolen it the animals had stolen his wife the
beavers in particular charmed her taking her away and he was left with a with a
with the infant son who had no way to feed and he in turn stole the beavers
favorite grandchild young pup albino pup special pup and was holding it in
ransom and there was some negotiations that took place but ultimately then the
beavers called on all of their like all the animals that rely on them which are a
lot of different animals in one way or another they're connected with the beaver
with the beavers and so they called on all of their friends to come and
participate and they brought their bundle and the guy's wife back and they're
and transferred him their bundle which was seven predators that were dangerous
to beavers bears wolves eagles there's seven of them now there's seven of them
in that original bundle and and because Matoya be he had he had had these like they
weren't dreams he cried he cried himself to sleep every night without his wife that
his young wife and then this old man was coming to see him he didn't know where
the old man came from spirit spirit being was coming to see him and tell him
um the old man was telling me your wife isn't dead this is what's happened you know she got
too lonely because he was he was a ridiculously skilled trapper but it required that he spent
all his time with nature and he was he was not spending the time with his with his girl
and he wouldn't let her bring her sister she was like can I bring my sister over to the camp
because she could keep me company no no too many people up here spook the animals
gotta keep a low profile you know can I go like stay with my parents and stuff while you're up
here visit with my parents and they're in their clan hey I want you here with me what you hear
with me and so she got you know bored and lonely and the beavers noticed this and then there was
a be a bachelor beaver that kind of like transformed himself to look like a like a handsome young
man charmed her to go with him and eventually led led her what's up what's up jenny you want to go out
I think they think there's something outside all the dogs are barking it's okay it's okay you guys
no there's nothing out there look I'll look out the door I'm looking out there's nobody
just a snowy neighborhood
all right go to bed you guys chill up
so
there wasn't going to be a much of a negotiation because
um like they brought this bundle to him that they consider very sacred and they brought his wife
back and they were like all we want is our pup and he and he refused and he refused based on what
this old man the spirit man had been telling him hey um he held on to that pup
and then this emmoni see
the otter addressed the other animals and said
but the nerve of this human being
they only just arrived here
and he's making like your most sacred bundle is not enough for him
you know look at the sky and this is where this is where right right came into the story
it was through the otter the otter was ready to dance and he is like look at you know look at
this character sitting here he's soft he's slow he's weak can't fly can't run worth a damn
can't fend for himself
why don't we just yeah why don't we just all gang up on him and eat him be done with it
you know and this is this is when the the elder beaver
kind of stepped in because the animals were considering it
oh it was it was an obvious solution you know he wasn't accepting their offer
it was a good offer fuck this guy you know and who is this guy like he's got you know nothing
so um but the elder beaver said okay yeah we can like it'd be easy to kill this guy
you're right he's nothing like as far as like a physical challenge now it's nothing
we'll kill this guy like a heartbeat but um
the other humans are gonna learn about this
there's a lot of other humans they're gonna learn about this
because when you do something like that you can't keep it secret it's gonna come out no
so
we could go that route
and be done with this tonight right right here right now
um but that's not really what I called you here for
like I need you guys's help I think rather than establishing that as our future
in relation to these humans these people um we should maybe help them
compensate
for some of their shortcomings you know they're not really adapted to live here we've been living
here a long time give them some of our knowledge about how to live here and live here well in
relation to each other how to like all the all the core stuff how to live here it's a way of life
in this place and if we teach them that then in turn they will have respect for us
and they won't just kill us because they're afraid when they see us
they'll kill us some of us to eat us
but they'll have respect for us we've lived here a lot longer all of our
all of our you know the things that we've learned
you know estomato we've embodied it
they haven't embodied any they're born and they don't have any that instinct stuff
so we will give we'll share with them some of what we have and they practice that in the future
they'll have that
and and and live respectfully so that was what the humans ultimately signed up well that was what
the animals ultimately signed on for
you know
you don't really get a sense of whether he was a philosopher or not
or a politician or anything he was a trapper right but he was he was told by this old man in
these in in these encounters not to give that pup up not to agree to the to the whole thing until
until it was a sign that he would recognize
that it was okay to do that hey and that did come at the end because all the animals gave things
gave their robes gave their songs and then the old beavers you know again he's like okay
like look at this this giant this giant bundle and we've given you so much of our knowledge and
stuff right all i want is my pup and and
what do you hope he didn't feel like he'd seen what he needed to see
like whatever was supposed to be his cute so there's still there's still people here who haven't given
anything and there was there was these two people like each one beside the door
two like everybody that came to that transform themselves to look human-esque like that's part
of the story too if you really tell the story in a good blackfoot way you describe it describe
you know the different animal beings that came in there but they tried to make themselves look
human-esque and they were grotesque they freaked out matoyapi so much he couldn't he couldn't
hardly bear to look at them because they were so like frightening you know
and there was these two they were they were on either side of the lodge door
or that had these robes pulled up over their heads like buffalo robes
and um those two haven't i don't know what's going on there you know they haven't given anything to
the bundle and who are they and then they they pulled back their their robes and the and the one
was that old man that had been coming to him in the night and then the other one was an old woman
and they started singing their songs to give to the bundle and when they started singing their songs
then it became immediately apparent that this is the sun and the moon yeah and they they gave a
lot of songs and then when they were done go come eat some the night the night sun opened the
the lodge door and called in this boy who brought in these two animals that nobody had ever seen
one of them was black and one of them was white the male was black the female was white
and he he led these two animals in and he and he said that this is uh you know he he started singing
songs and this was um the morning star of course and
and what he gave to the bundle were the dogs
um
the lynx tail is also like the actual person who embodies the morning star in the ceremony
wears the lynx tail um but he brought the he brought domesticated dogs
dogs nobody'd ever known them before and he said this this this uh black dog this male dog
will haul your bundle when you move from camp to camp you make a travois and he'll carry your bundle
this female dog is going to make more dogs and you're going to give these dogs to the humans
these dogs are going to protect all the humans they're going to look out for you whenever
any dangers approaching they're going to alert you they're going to get between you and the danger
and that's that's what he gave and that was when matoya api
said that he had got what was needed and uh he agreed to the to the treaty
and he would share with the humans what they'd you know what had gone on and he would change
his name from matoya api to natocianipi the sun came down brings brings down the sun
basically yeah natocianipi which became another famous name for beaver men
um now
alan my my my elders um grandfather was one of the what was the last that i know
natocianipi the last brings down the sun but he won't be the last there'll be there'll be others
yeah
so that's what the humans gave to the bundle
that's that's kind of like that's uh that's more than i expected to talk about what a bundle is
but you have any questions i was talking about harvard i was trying to tell a harvard story
i know we're gonna get back to mad but um
the human gave
the the beaver pup back the human gave the beaver pup back the human gave
um the human gave uh
uh
like in natocianipi like mutual respect uh
like before this is a guy who his whole operation his whole life had been
and i'm finding the fanciest looking animals killing them preparing their skins and you
know selling it to people trading it bartering it and stuff like all he was was a it was a
was a killing machine and very inserted into the natural world and it wasn't you know for food
it was just for things like robes and stuff you know
just for getting the fanciest you know the albinos and the mixed color patterns and
different animals and things you know um that's what he was known for he he was the trapper
extraordinaire that was the original beaver man
and he gave the pup and he gave respect what about the contributions of the sun and moon
these are not his contributions no those come in on this those were those were things he was
waiting for he was right those came in on the side of what the animals would offer to him right
okay so the pup and mutual respect
which isn't minor not trivial anything else
no that's basically that's basically it the mutual respect is the big thing the pup
is just a symbol just like his just like his son who is not able to to feed without his mom
keeping the beaver pup from his parents is is endangering the future generations yeah this is
what we're talking about yes yes they're just symbols future generations and yes yes yes the
children yeah so in order to save the children the future generations we must agree to have a
mutual respect where we can coexist yes us with the animals and that the the mainstream culture
today does not have that hey no it's more than that though too unless i don't understand something
or i'm making something out can i go on a tangent yes a little one
i work with rattlesnakes uh that's a that's a that's probably a
out of my income my annual income probably a tenth of it comes from wrangling rattlesnakes
in the heart of blackfoot territory in lethbridge where i live this is like this is like the the
nexus of this is you know this is the heart of blackfoot territory and there's a huge rattlesnake
population pray rattlesnakes and i'm the guy uh that gets called when a rattlesnake shows up
at in somebody's yard and the human being
needs something to be done about it uh you know like you're you're not allowed here
to kill snakes it's against the law i know in the states you're still allowed to kill snakes
almost everywhere yeah here here in alberta where i live um you are not allowed to kill any of our
natural snake species you will get up to a 30 000 fine in five years in prison
wow it's it's a it's a criminal offense um
so given that you're not allowed to kill a snake if you can't just coexist with one
real easy then you end up calling the rattlesnake guy and that's me i took on that position
because i've been around snakes all my life but also because of the beaver bundle because i
thought this was a way to kind of honor my role as a beaver man and the rattlesnakes this is why
i want to go on this tangent the rattlesnakes i find are the best symbol in my mind of that treaty
that was made yes yes i know where you're going and please keep going there with the beaver bundle
yes with white grass yes why are they the best symbol because there are venomous snakes all over
the earth but only here in the americas do you find this thing called a rattlesnake
and a rattlesnake co-evolved with human presence here it's a it's not a it's not an old old thing
having having rattles on a snake it's something that co-evolved with humans and
i think you know if it was a situation where cultures demonized so to speak the the snakes
like the main even so to speak just straight up demonize them well yeah well obviously christian
culture does but there's other there's others cultures that just are snake haters but don't
necessarily demonize them they're just like because they don't have rattlesnakes they have
these other snakes to just fight them with no warning right we have rattlesnakes why do we
have rattlesnakes because we agreed to coexist with the animals in all of the animals including
the rattlesnakes there's no way that rattle evolves in a cultural situation with humans
they're going to respond negatively to that rattle and just kill the snake
when they're warned that rattle only evolves if it has the effect that it needs to have which is to
say leave me alone and people you know back off um that doesn't happen everywhere else in the world
because everywhere else in the world they don't have this agreement maybe you know yeah so let me
rephrase what you said and now um you know we've had hundreds of years now of of a of a different
cultural influence here in the americas and we are starting to see pockets of rattlesnakes
that are changing um there's a mojave mojave rattlesnake uh where a lot of the young snakes
are being born with a with a crooked tail that can't rattle uh and there's um there are prairie
rattlesnakes the same species that are here in blackfoot territory uh just a couple provinces
east of here in manitoba there's a pocket of prairie rattlesnakes where the newborns are
being born without a nub to form a rattle on and herpetologists do believe that this is because
the persecution of the rattlesnake you know the the snake in general yeah um and that you know
now having the rattle is evolutionarily or natural selection wise not a good thing here
because of the cultural system of the humans in other words the so the rattle where it doesn't
warn the humans off successfully goes away
yeah i mean if the if the rattle goes off and and kill the snake oh there's a snake there kill it
right yeah then then the rattle goes away yeah over time yeah over time that's the way natural
selection works right like blackfoot knowledge is very aligned with with some of the core
mainstream science and ecology knowledge too and natural selection is not it you know
it's it all it all plays in there like um i think that's why we have the rattlesnakes here
is because natural selection playing into a eco social uh situation a context
where there's an agreement we're not just going to kill something just because it's here
you know just because it shows up there is there there are blacks of protocols around um like if a
bird enters into your house a flies in on its own kind of thing um people would kill it
and i think that's just because of the you know the situation with
if you live in a teepee which is always open it's never never entirely closed
and you start and you and you and you give grant
to any birds to come in you're you're gonna have a problem same with anything like if you
you know like there is a beaver beaver story about a mouse
that started taking up residence in this guy's bundle and he had a conflict like i'm not supposed
to have a problem with the animals right but here's this mouse dug into the side of my bundle
what do i do and he ultimately decided to let the mouse live there and the mouse would go and
raid other people's um tobacco stores in the night and bring them back to his bundle
and so it turned out being a good thing there's some songs associated with the mouse um
but you know i myself experimented as a beaver man letting mice come into my modern house
it's not a good idea they might not bring you tobacco no and i i think in the past letting
birds into your teepee was not a good idea you know yeah but but other than that kind of a thing
that little space that's a controlled space right the little the little uh yeah other than that little
space um we're not allowed to kill things other than for food you know yes yeah or you know
like there's plants that are used for different things and stuff of course
but you know you have to have a good reason to be taken out some life not just because you're afraid
of it or just because it's a ice or or whatever you know like what we do today yeah yeah
so i'm gonna recap this and then we're gonna start again okay uh
the rattlesnakes are a good example of the agreement because they are an excellent example
of the agreement because they have rattles right and so they could if they don't have rattles
just simply wait till you get close enough to them maybe you don't notice them maybe you're
afraid of them whatever then just bite you but because they have rattles they alert you
and they ask they've got another step like all of the venomous snakes they're very first
um self-defense is camouflage yes so they will just sit very still and hope that you just pass by
right but if that doesn't work and you don't just pass by and you're gonna injure them
threaten them if you come i mean you have to come within four or five inches of a snake to get bit
in reality yeah so if you if you come that close to it that means his life is threatened
and it's gonna bite you now rattlesnake has one more step in in mitigating that
um conflict that you don't find anywhere else you find it in north america
because i think this is the agreement in north america that we're not just going to kill each
other for being there and in under that circumstance the rattle can evolve
if you don't have that circumstance then all it does is alert the human before it gets bit
to the snakes presence and the human hates the snake and kills the snake yes
all right let me try to recap this one more time so
the the rattlesnake is an example of the agreement it gives you the chance
to remember to respect the animal because it warns you thoughtably warns you right in a way
that everything recognizes this sound very distinctive sound
and so where that treaty has been well kept where that agreement has been kept the rattlesnakes keep
their rattles in some places where that agreement is not kept by the humans the rattlesnakes begin
to lose their rattles that's right now there's no more warning and the first thing camouflage
turns out to be very problematic for the human because the human will die yeah the human can't
see them right blind essentially yeah all right hold that thought one more session
i'll be back okay yep sounds good
so we're returning from part four we've just been talking about the rattlesnakes we're
returning four part two part four um i just want to mention something that occurred to me
it's almost as if there's an intergenerational transfer between the rattlesnakes and they transfer
the rattle to their children but then if the agreement is broken that transfer doesn't
stop happening this is just in my mind something happens with the body because i mean like i mean
maybe it maybe it's just like if i just follow in natural selection um is there's just always a
a variety of bodies and you may or may not be born without the little nub to make your rattle work
or you know your tail might be angled i mean what they're what they're seeing now in those two
populations the mojave and the manitoba prairie rattlesnake are um what they would now consider
mutations of course yes yeah that are all right you know all right so do we here return to madge
in harvard yeah okay yeah so madge walters oh she had a photo of her i've never seen her
i would like to see her um in my stories earlier i mentioned marlene walters i think who's who was
on the blackfeet tribal business council who i was working with with the land consolidation act
i know sometimes people get like when that the when that the council you're working with no no
madge walters is a different walters than the marlene there is a family of people on the
blackfeet reservation named walters that are not related to her um i don't know where they
got the walter name but it wasn't it wasn't through madge madge was in san francisco
she's very wealthy um or at least in blackfeet terms she was because because she she was able
to use those three young people to buy a lot of things and she was trying to overcome her cancer
she was fully like
interested like she she didn't want just the bundles she wanted the story she wanted as much as she
could understand she was trying to use these things to help herself wow um and she died
but when she died she had a the considerable collection of blackfoot
bundles and other individual sacred items and stuff um a whole like i mean i've i had a big a thick
a thick pile of um correspondence between her and the three young people out here
that would i'm looking at a letter from her yeah in which the final paragraph is she's asking
someone about artifacts or they're asking her and the final paragraph is i do not wonder that you
feel you cannot pay six hundred dollars for the blood bundle i've never yet seen one that i think
would be worth that amount six hundred dollars my goodness dude that's ridiculous okay to put
that in perspective when i transferred into to be a beaver man i was poor
and i still uh i took a whole year my wife and i well about eight months
and everything we could get we put away
um and we bought things and we put away money and we bought things to give away to the people
that would come to our transfer and our family members came forward well i should say hers not mine
um my wife's uncle came forward and gave like you know gave me like a thousand bucks
we should bear in mind though that um in 1947 that's approximately equivalent to
eight thousand dollars today okay i think i paid about equivalent to about 40 to 50
thousand today i paid enough for an undergraduate education to get the beaver bundle transferred
to me okay um and that's what people normally pay to enter into like one of the bigger bundles
or sacred societies here sometimes like it's not it's not always like it's not all at once
like i like we probably put 20 000 into our original transfer
um but then we were hosting the ceremonies in waterton park we had to buy up a you know
two thousand dollar tp we had to haul everything out there to do our ceremonies feed everybody
like like in the in the in the time that um
that i was running those ceremonies i definitely spent 40 to 50 thousand dollars
on on ceremony stuff with with our bundle to do you know and that's all the training
like when you have the bundle that's your training time
when you get rid of when you transfer it on then there's kind of a relaxed period most times for
for beaver bundles there's no relax like the other bundles in the system usually we have them
maybe three four years transfer them another caretea carekeeper and you get a break
while that next carekeepers taking care of them and the one after that will come approach you as
as an elder to teach them and then you have to get back into actual working with it and that kind
of thing and and as an elder i mean even though you're making like it's oh it's all this stuff is
sacrifice stuff and you're so you're sacrificing a lot and that's because you know you're learning
a lot and you're getting a lot of social um
cachet with it as well you know um but it's a huge responsibility to be the keeper of a living library
yeah huge i like it it's in me yes you know that's a that's a thing like it's not written down
yes you know it's in me yes i you know you become the living library yes yes and you and you pay for
that um but that's why i mean it makes you a resource it's it's an investment in a way you know
because because you do you do like like that's how the elders are ultimately like taking care of
you know
they don't got work their whole lives because they got like this isn't the western system there's no
fucking there's no fucking retirement yeah yeah and so
it provides a way for the elders to be taken care of
because they have this role and the role is not merely valuable monetarily there's reverence
for the role oh yeah yeah so harvard and match okay so match she died she died with a considerable
blackfoot collection
all of which her daughter sold to the denver art museum
now the denver art museum comes in possession i mean they they paid i don't know what they paid for it
it's probably i probably got the paperwork on it my home he does anyway my wife max wife um
my home he has the paperwork for it in our in our records what what the denver art museum paid
for it because i have all that shit i got everything um
but basically they they museums
with the the try to create ethnographic collections are basically
um most most of the or at least at that time today's a weird thing because museums are just
trying to salvage themselves and this isn't this it's not going to happen but um
in those times
when when when mad walter passed on this would have been like probably the 1950s
i think if i remember correct um
the museums were still like
if they if they had ethnographic collections they wanted a good representation of each culture
what they got from mad walters was five representations of blackfoot culture
um because they had five or more of everything oh my gosh she had so much stuff dude
and so denver art museum started selling it and trading they were like okay we got a blackfoot
beaver bundle thunder pipe horns pipe bundle moto peak society bundle uh so this masonian
we're looking at you got a uh a klamath this and a kalapuya that and you know that we don't have
you know to make our more our collection more complete let's do a trade
so mad walters collection went all over the fucking place to all the major museums
denver art museum kept a core mm-hmm their little Noah's ark of blackfoot culture
and then everything they didn't need it as second version of they sent everywhere else
yeah yeah so the the the beaver bundle that i found in the pee body museum in harvard
was one of these from mad walters uh harvard didn't have that that piece to their collection yet
so they had got it from the mad walters collection at denver art museum
and they got it for something like 350 dollars right but magic all that got it for i think 50
sure yeah
and you can see here
a kind of a terrifying trend that's just going to continue where the indigenous people are so poor
that they're selling their sacred history to the colonials for a pittance well that was happened
that's not anymore yes and i have to kind of explain this too because when i say it's like 1950
the united states that that 1940s and 1950s when mad walters came up here was 1940 early
1940s and and she kept collecting into the 1950s and then she died and then it went to denver art
museum and then from there it dispersed everywhere else now when i'm talking about the 1940s and 50s
in canada it's a different situation than in the united states with indians and stuff all right
in the united states in 1924 there was something called the indian reorganization act
a national policy that that went through that drew an end to the era supposedly of forced
assimilation that said you can keep your culture now we want diversity here in the united states
um you can keep your culture we're gonna we're gonna remove the residential schools
from your reserves we are going to remove the federal indian agents from your reserves
we are going to let you make your own band councils to control your communities we are
going to let you control your own schools and all that stuff and you can leave your reserve
and participate in the national economy if you want and in fact we will offer you incentive
and move you uh with you know we'll we'll help you get established in either san francisco
or chicago my my grandma went to chicago uh um but this was in 1924 in the united states
the same kind of federal legislation did not happen here in canada until 1968
so 1970s was the big time of change here 1960s 70s where like uh the language was lost
um i mean that happened in the 20s 30s in the states with most of the tribes through the indian
reorganization act again it's the economic incentive or uh the economic incentive you can
come off reserve and make some money yeah if you want to come live in the city yeah come
live in the city and you gotta learn english you got that happened in the 20s there it happened
in the 60s here so it's a different timeline yeah so so when swindsunder brought madge from
montana into albert he is bringing her into a world that was three four decades late
from what she's used to i see yeah
i mean for her it's a treasure trove but it's a terrifying situation yeah for the business people
yeah a lot a lot of shit was lost to her and these young and these young guys
they don't even know what they're selling no and they didn't give a fuck right they just wanted
some whiskey or whatever you know i'm guessing well those guys they were just trying to get
but like if you if you watch like a really good if you if you want to look at some um go to the
go to the um um what is it the fucking uh canadian film board website and watch
circle of the sun and then standing alone and then the last roundup and these are three different
films um bio documentaries on the late pete standing alone who made the first film circle of the sun
when he was about 25 and then the second film um standing alone when he was about 50
and then the last roundup when he's about 75 and you'll see when he's 25 years old
he thinks the sun dances he thinks all the all the ceremony stuff is just for the old people
he doesn't think it's for him yeah he thinks it's for the old people and he thinks it's going away
and the and the whole documentary is about how it's going away like oh this is this is this
gone right this this is the last of this fucking thing the whole way of life is going away
supposedly yeah 25 years later he's becoming the elder nice or he's in the society
he's in the he's in the core of the society's 25 years later and stuff he's living it his parents
have died and ricocheted him into a situation where he suddenly respects what this tradition has to
offer his parents died on the highway and you know 25 years after that he's he's the elder elder
of the horns like he's one of the top two elders and they do if they do the third film
Narciss did that film um but and then I interviewed him at the uh we had a private screening of the
last roundup his third film at redcore college uh with the with the with the guys from um the
Canadian film board and they they asked that just like three or four of us to to give him questions
and I asked him because he was eight years old at the time and and he was really
in good physical standing you know um like like he was still like like his mind was all there
his body was still you know pretty good like he wasn't like he was standing straight and walking
good and he was healthy and skinny and all that shit so I told him um Pete my question what's
your secret you know you're 80 years old looks so good
girl still like you what's up how'd you get that way he said there's three secrets
so first of all you know you're you're only human and every once in a while
you got to let yourself indulge
he was talking specifically about beer
you know nothing at the door I just standing up um he's like you can get it you can buy a case of beer
once a week and get hammered get really drunk and enjoy yourself
and there's nothing wrong with that but you don't do it every day
what's the number two
you got to change wives every
you know five six years
he had he had changed wives several times in his lifetime and he kind of jokingly said
I've been with Betty now more than 10 years I think this is the end
it was but um number three
um stick with the young people
don't worry about the old people they're going out
forget about those guys stick with the young people
um and that was something that I know was not bullshit at all
that he learned from his horses because he'd expressed it to me in other ways many times
but he's basically like if I want to if I want to work on something new I don't work with my old
horses ah you know I raised the young horses into it ah yes yeah
all right so we were going on a journey to learn something about Harvard
well we learned about we learned about Madge Walters a little bit yeah yeah
Harvard that I want to get back to that's the core story so the beaver bundle that was on the
accessions list that I received when I went to Harvard the first time
after they kind of like gave me that they tried to shake me off
right so you're going to have to book months in advance and this kind of thing they do research blah
blah and I'd call their bluff and I'm like okay come down and then they showed me the list that they
had of the what they had in their uh collections that were blackfoot and a beaver bundle was high
upon the list like second second to human remains which they thought we would go after
that's not blackfoot protocol like we don't we just deal with living the bundles we consider still be
living not the not the dead yes so I went straight after the bundle um that day looking at the
accessions records taking my notes all that stuff and then I went through all their other
shit and I looked at all everything that they had that day I just spent the whole day going
through their accessions records on everything they had figured out how they got it where they got
it how much they paid what they did you know how everything that you know that I could from
everything that they had I had at that point so I went home with that information I was going to
enter it into my database that I'm given to the tribe and that night I got a call from George
what's his last name horse capture
he's not black
where is he from
I remember
it's from another tribe in Montana
I want to say he's grovant but I'm not sure
George horse capture this is the Smithsonian's Indian
and George calls me and says who the fuck are you basically not in not in too much of
a different tone than that you know like hey we got a letter from you at the Smithsonian
and I see you've got you know
I see you've got real old persons permission and all of this but I don't know who you are
I don't know what you think you're doing I think you're probably disempowering
the blackfoot community doing what you're doing I don't think I'm going to send you any of the
Smithsonian's data I think you can fuck off this is basically George horse captures message to me
so I went over to my to my advisor at the University of Massachusetts and told him you
know I got this weird phone call from George horse capture this is what he said to me I get it you
know he's like yeah I get it too
what do I do about it sour no just leave it for now I guess I'm not getting Smithsonian stuff
or whatever right so it's kind of left it a couple days later I get another phone call
and this is from Joyce Boone Hunter so Joyce Boone Hunter uh is the first cousin of Marlene
Bear Walters who was the tribal council member who I was working most closely with
on the Blackfeet tribal business council previously so this is our first cousin
and Joyce calls me Joyce is the the person on the federal register for the Native American Graves
Protection and Repatriation Act and that act just happened to come out like that year it's 1995
that act was I mean I guess it was written in 1990 but it was only signed by George Bush in 1995
and I didn't even know shit about it
I mean I kind of understood about repatriation stuff a little bit from the literature my my mentor
had shown me but I didn't know about NAGPRA the Native American Graves Protection Repatriation Act
I didn't know about repatriations with museums all I thought was that I was putting together a guide
of where the shit was in the world so that people could find stuff to look at to learn
hmm you know yeah and so Joyce calls me up and she's like she's the person who's listed on the
federal register and she was trained by George Horse Capture at the Smithsonian
the guy who had called me a few days earlier and so she calls me up and she's she's upset she's mad
she's like I don't know what you what you think you're doing but like you're doing my job
I'm the I'm the person on the federal register for repatriation I'm supposed to be collecting
the inventories for our tribe and I'm hearing from all these museums that they're getting
this inquiry from you who who are you what's going on so I told her hey you know I was on the
phone with her but hey man I'm not trying to step on any of these feet or anything I was working
with Earl and Marlene and just trying to trying to pull in inventories from these museums I don't
know anything about this dag press stuff but let me tell you something like within walking distance
from me there's a beaver bundle at Harvard's Museum I just was in their accessions the other day
I'll send you all my information about it but they have a beaver bundle right here
and she did a whole 180 on me like in a heartbeat and was like do you think you could go over there
and start negotiating to bring it home and I was like yep I think that's yeah totally right so
um so Joyce uh spoon hunter
invited me into repatriation she was the lead for the Blackfeet Nation on repatriation
she's listed on she's the only person listed on the federal register for it
and she's the one that said right can you go negotiate this so I did I contacted Harvard I said
I'm interested in um coming to have a meeting about talking about bringing that beaver bundle
out of the museum back to the community I'm representing the community and um
um and they said well we have this new uh repatriation liaison
called Emery Victor Scout Emery Victor how sorry Emery Victor how and um she'll help you
so Emery gets in contact with me to schedule a meeting and she is very very French
like overwhelmingly French accent
and I don't know dude I was probably
23 24 my goodness dealing with dealing with a middle aged
you know French academic working at Harvard
and um I know what the fuck to do so I bought two bottles of wine
from the from the Willamette Valley where I grew up in Oregon
really good wine ah really good shit and when I went to Harvard to meet with Emery
I brought this wine uh as a gift and she was like Ryan
do you buy me this wine because I am French
no are you French I didn't even know
um somehow or another I won Emery's heart I think I don't know I feel like it was kind
of through the wine thing but that was just a gateway I think I would have won her anyway
I won her heart like really won her heart like like she was in love with me
um she was married you know but she loved me and right away she was like she was like okay
we have to be very careful you know this means that they're going they're going to try to stop
this repatriation you know like she started fucking coaching me dude
this is where they're gonna this is the angle in the law that they're gonna use against you
you have to make sure you craft your argument against this and against this and she fucking
taught me how to craft a repatriation uh claim to beat Harvard wow and it was it was beautiful
yeah and you know and they had to go through with it um
yeah I mean this is where you know Harvard School of Law is it didn't put her in good
terms with the museum of course yeah not surprising they didn't they and they didn't
know the full extent of like how she'd helped me either you know right um they just thought
she was the go-between but she she was really like I would give her okay this draft and
she'd be like oh look out for that sentence they're gonna pick that apart you know and she
really she really coached me to help me so where I could fight every other museum after that
without a problem you know yeah there was a transfer there there was right she transferred
you the power to fight museums in a way she did yeah yeah yeah can you hold that thought
yep okay I'll be back as soon as the processing is done
so this is actually part six and we talked about her helping you understand how to argue against
Harvard the museum she works for yeah to succeed in repatriating Blackfoot traditional longings
yeah yeah so that was that was Emery Victor how she she helped she helped me out to make sure
I had a successful successfully written claim um
the only person who can sign off on that of course is Joyce Spoonhunter on the federal register
so Harvard wanted um Joyce intended to send a group of elders out here to pick up the bundle
but Harvard wanted her to come physically
view it and sign off
and okay something about coming back to the the categorization of things we we've mentioned
something earlier um in Harvard in in the in the Peabody Museum the Peabody Museum was you know
not originally like a cultural museum I think it was originally a paleontological museum actually
but it was it was much more a natural history museum
than it was a cultural museum to begin with at Harvard and uh all of the beaver bundle
had been parsed out throughout the storage areas to conform with categories
you know it's like dissecting your father and putting different pieces in different boxes
based on which function you think the piece had or some ridiculous even worse thing
yeah so so you know beaver pelts go over here in their museum storage
goose loon pelts or whatever go over here um artifacts
human made things go over here and and they're separated into all of these different categories
um so the beaver bundle was spread all over the museum all over the museum
was there a central index of what the beaver bundle originally contained that you could work from
yeah okay yeah there was there was a there was an original inventory
um and for the most part they had all of the things all of the items of the bundle
what was what was really missing was this uh a bag um they call them
corn husk bags now but that's just a colonial era thing there's a type of a basketry bag
almost like a purse that was made on the on unlike just just over the mountains from here
Salish Kootenai those you know those areas
um it those bags were very complicated to make
wasn't like I mean normal Native American basketry itself is very complex and and um
um like god there's not even a market that that that really pays what it's worth in the world
you know for for for the kind of artistry that goes into normal basketry but these bags are especially
like even the skilled artisan is going to take them a long long time to make these bags
um they are tightly woven hemp bags with with designs and you know with uh with
dyed designs on them and and and such um
the corn husk bags they're called today um
but there was an old like in the beaver bundles the corn husk bags
it was a trade item and obviously like a super luxurious one
and it's used to hold your your seven rattles
it's a rattle bag in the beaver bundle and so this bundle came to Harvard with one of those bags
but Harvard could not find the bag
and then they let me through the storage with Anne Marie and we could not find the bag
so we think the bag's gone from the museum a lot of things have disappeared in the years from
sure and um we think that's gone and so we get the we get the rest of it all together
in a in a room and stuff and Joyce is gonna Joyce is they want Joyce to come and identify it
make sure that's the beaver bundle sign off on it she has to physically see it no bullshit yeah
but the tribe won't send her
black black feet nation at the time was just not gonna invest send her out there for it
meaning they won't pay for it they won't pay for her to get a plane ticket in the hotel to come out
and do what she needs to do to bring that bundle home oh my gosh she's the only person on the
federal register who can do it only the single only person and they they won't fly her out there to do it
wow so i so i fly her out there and she stays at my apartment
hmm
and we go into a meeting with the director of the museum whose name i don't even remember
as well as Anne Marie Victor how i know her first name Barbara i know that because every
she's the bitch at me all the time about Barbara
so i remember her that's why i think i remember susan too but
Barbara meets us in this fancy room at a long table and there's art
paintings of all of these like Harvard presidents or something right around the room
and me and Joyce are there sitting across the long table from Anne Marie Victor how and Barbara
Barbara and Barbara says you have to appreciate this is Harvard she was she was British i don't
know her good British accent but in her British accent see she said you have to appreciate this
is Harvard University that was her opening line and Joyce retorted with not a fucking delay
you need to appreciate i'm from the Blackfeet Nation and our men are ready to come over here on
horseback and take this fucking bundle back you know she didn't say fucking right she said we're
gonna come over here and take it we don't care about her nothing means nothing to us yeah
and um that's where we started that day
wow but we just had a duty to do like the process in argument like the legal argument i had already
sealed it dude i'd already sealed it it just had to be signed off i made it happen i fucking
brought her there and and housed her and wrote her to the museum wrote her the airport and got
her off back home and all that shit to sign off on that beaver bundle
but a but a month later a group of elders showed up in Boston
and i thought that they would know what they were there for
nope
this group that showed up they were on a tour there's this was a this was a group of elders
from all four of the different Blackfeet tribes so it included Carol Murray from
from um Scoppy Picani the southern Blackfoot in Montana um and Tom Blackweasel
from um Scoppy Picani in Montana it included Alan Pard
from Apatofici Picani in Alberta
it included Frank Weaselhead Martin Heavyhead who would who would become my father-in-law
um Narciss Blood who would become my best friend for two decades
Les Healy Annabelle Crossbeard Wolf Alvin Mountain Horse from the Bloods
do we have anyone from Sixica
i think we did all right so it was only three of the four tribes represented but they all came
in they flew in and they were on tour they were going to Chicago and then Boston and then Washington
D.C. um
or no no Boston was their last place i think they just went to Chicago and Boston that trip
yeah yeah yeah yeah i'll tell you the Washington trip because i was there actually but um
yeah they went they went to Chicago and and then the Boston and they just thought
that they were going to be touring the museum really Joyce never told them that they were
picking up a bun like i don't know what the fuck you know really myself
you know a lot of my a lot of i don't want to talk bad about Joyce but anyway it was it was weird
to me that that that i had to fly her there it was weird to me that the elders that came
there pick up the bundle didn't even know what the what the heck was going on
and then um i i went to the airport i i i like rented a van i knew they were coming
i had a whole plan hey we were gonna go pick up the bundle at the museum and then
and then i was gonna take them i knew they their plane flight wasn't for a couple of days
so i was going to take them out of the city into Connecticut to Foxwood's
to the to the Mashantucket Pequot tribe there's a big casino hotel there it's a lot of fun
and we were going to stash up there for a couple of days and then go back to their
flights and such right so i rented i rented a van like a 10 person van or something like a big van
you know and i went to the airport to pick them up and i missed them somehow they got taxis or
something they got they got to their their first hotel and so i drove over there and i talked
talked to somebody there i can't even remember who i who i've met there might have been less
healing might have been narcissus i can't remember but the gist of it was all right well
we're we're we'll we'll uh see you in the morning and come pick us up and we'll go to the museum
and uh and so and that was that was what you know was intended anyway i was just gonna try to
give my ride to their hotels and they didn't have to pay for taxi you know sure but uh anyway so in
the morning i went over there to pick them up that they were already go and got in my van and
everything and um we started going drive and i started driving over to harvard and i was telling
them um yeah we got the beaver bundle like everything stashed off in one room it's but it's
all pulled apart because i you know i told them how they've had it all over the museum you know
right and uh so you know you guys are gonna need to like put it back together and sing it out of
there you know oh and i've seen them like looking at each other like what the fuck what's going on
you know right what what they had no idea they didn't know who i was they thought i was
somebody working for harvard
they had no idea they were there to pick up a bundle it was all hitting them off guard
and but they rolled with it you know yeah i've i've known these people for the rest of my life
now you know this is this is decades later um it's it's it's great to be able to like think back on
this and think you know they were all in that predicament and they just fucking they were just
rolling with they're like yeah fuck yeah we're gonna take a bundle you know like they didn't
question nothing didn't ask a question they just you know we're going with whatever what does this
guy say okay you know so i could see them kind of like kind of like figuring out you know who's
gonna do what and shit right and alan was the only one that you know alan and frank
hey seemed to be the ones that like all the locusts were on you know all of the fucking you
know you guys are gonna really have to handle this stuff so we get to the museum and we go
into the room where all the bundle components are
and alan starts like physically putting the bundle together
and frank is like discussing things with him as he's doing it
i i don't know what the hell they're saying because they're talking in blackfoot
yeah martin calls me over to him because he's picked up this like tobacco cutting board from
the from the bundle and uh martin calls me over to me he's like what kind of wood is this
he thinks you work for the museum still no i don't know what he thinks oh yeah yeah he thinks
well all of them think i work for the museum they think you're an academic yeah yeah
i don't know right we don't know what they thought of course it's true yeah but i i don't
know what kind of wood it is either of course yeah it's it's just a it's a very martin kind of
question though you know of all of all the things to be curious about he wants to know what kind of
wood that tobacco cutting board is made of and i think narciss and anabella are looking through
my photographs because i went through the whole peabody collection before they came everything
in storage and there's some there's some really the peabody has the coolest like most indiana
jones storage of of all the museums the smithsonian has the most guarded
like to get into the smithsonians and well that's a i'll tell that when that story comes yeah
you can back to off just a little bit thanks um
um yeah the i'll tell you about how you get into smithsonian
when we get when we get to the smithsonian but harvard has the coolest secret little chambers
and shit full of like like little tiny like elf like doors that you have to climb little ladders
that to go through and you and you move through this little door and it opens up into this gigantic
fucking storage of world treasures well you know um harvard yeah sorry i can see myself in the camera
i know how i'm depicted myself okay i know it's just i just want to see your whole face because i
want to see your facial expressions there we go yeah um
so i've i've taken pictures of everything in harvard that's blackfoot that is listed as blackfoot
they may have other things too and now that that's other stories i've gone back there for other things
but um
but i took pictures of everything and there is a pipe in there and a headdress
in storage that are are very interesting to the horn society and um that pipe is what's
called a scissors pipe um it's a whole different kind of bundle that's now i don't know if we'll be
able to renew it alan could have uh um but it didn't get there there were there were components
we were looking for they had the pipe
and we could have made the other components even but
anyway um harvard had the pipe and they had this headdress and
narsus and frank were looking at my picture or narsus and uh and annabelle were looking at my
pictures and then and probably alveon that's narsus's wife and um and then they start asking
barbara if uh we could go look at those things
and so um and then they're and then in the midst of that someone brought up like where's the rattle
bag i think alan i think alan was like where's the bag you know it's on this original list
and uh they were like oh we looked for it and he's like uh if you guys are going into storage
why don't you look again so we went off on a journey a bunch of us from the group probably
half the group i know narsus was in it frank was in it alveon i think annabelle was with us
we went off to to and carol murray most important was with us
from from um scoppy pecan from the southern black
and so we went off looking in first we went into the exhibit
and they opened up the glass case so we could look at the at the women's
society headdress that they had on the exhibit oh yeah
so we took a look at it
and narsus told the museum you know this is a very important told barbara
this is in a very important um headdress from our women's society
um but because you are willing to give us the beaver bundle back
we promise we will never ask for this headdress in the future
hmm
now he did that
i subsequently learned
because it was a fugue
one of the one of the headdresses the the boys had made and sold to madge walters
there was bs yeah
looked just like the real thing yeah but you know what gave it up
no uh sign no paint around the brim anywhere like the people who would have worn it would have been
painted yeah
so they knew it was a fake yes
so that's in harvard
and no way
did you guys find the bag now yeah i'm still going on with the story
that was just the exhibit then we went to the storage we went to the storage and the first
things that the people you know were interested in was like frank being a horn society elder
and an inapska which is very much like a caesar's pipe almost like caesar's pipe is kind of in
between beaver pipes and and thunder pipes but um frank was really interesting to see
in those things and so we went up into that secret little
that little like elf door storage area the really cool area where that shit was
and um pulled those things out and
frank was telling barbara
when the the headdress was in front of him he got
really a serious look in his eye
and he is telling barbara i have the transfers for this headdress
i can put it on
and walk out of this museum and there's nothing you can do about it
and you know i think he had her he had her scared you know
like this is this is this british woman in fucking massachusetts that like
she didn't used to dealing with prairie indians at all
and uh frank was frank was putting like putting it on like he was like he was gonna like
i'm i'm i'm gonna take off with this fuck you see what see what we're gonna do call the cops
let's see what happens you know what kind of shit show this starts
all right yeah
so he threatened her and then he backed off you know played played with her a little bit and
backed off so we looked at the caesar's pipe we looked at the headdress you know they got to
they got to check them out and everything and and then um and then we went looking for the bag
we went down the down the storage area where the bag is supposed to be
and we were walking to where the bag was supposed to be we weren't in that
area yet i mean we were we were in the basketry's
stuff area where there's stuff like that but we weren't supposed to be in the stack
where that was but carol heard something singing
and stopped and opened a drawer and pulled out the bag
yeah there it was with the number and everything
wow carol murray
yeah
there were other there were other corn husk bags in there it was like we it was like
she just i don't know how she like she said she heard singing but the museum didn't even
think to check in that area with obviously there was other corn husk bags there
categories yeah right they're the category system right yeah it was it it was a drawer with a bunch
of them and and she just kind of like went through them and there was the one with the right number
she pulled it out and it looked old as fuck like it should
yeah
no rattles though what's that no seven rattles oh the rattles were already with the bundle
oh really wow we're just missing the bag oh yeah yeah yeah um so we went back up
you know by that time the bundle was put together they just had to put the rattles in the bag
and then we sang it out of there and you know what song allen chose to sing to lead it out of
there carol carol carol carried the bundle
and she would soon become transferred to beaver bundle
and allen was not transferred to beaver bundle yet but he was transferred that bundle
that was his first beaver bundle that i took out of harvard
he became milder for the beaver bundles later and were there any bundles alive among people
um there was at that time yeah there was there was um there was two
um one of them owned by aidoff and beaverly hungry wolf
and another owned by paul raska
um basically that you know like none that were really like inside the tribe
i mean paul paul you know paul's like none of them were like oh like both of those bundles
were functional and everything that they were like once allen got going that's when the beaver
bundles started back up you know um and his teacher was a kekinom mike swingsunder who
was the same teacher for the other two for aidoff and paul too um he was really the last beaver
man you know the last survivor um he had uh he grew up with it his parents had a beaver bundle and
um when his dad died he took his dad's role
and uh taking care of it with his mom and then when his mom died people stopped coming to the
ceremony and then when people stopped coming to the ceremony he took his bundle and brought it to
the river and gave it back gave it back to the water he thought it was done and that was like in 1960
something he did that and then you know mid 1990s um we're bringing beaver bundles back
sexy too
and uh yeah we uh we brought that one back from harvard
um and and that was transferred to allen now uh the song there was song coming out of the museum
was the uh the snake man song when he cried anyway really the victory song yeah
ah
That was that was a song Alan saying bringing the beaver bundle out and
Everybody climbed in that van and I was like shaking hands. They were all nervous. They're like, come on. Come on
Like we just robbed the bank
We got this bundle. Let's go. Yeah
Before they change their minds, yeah, exactly, right
But yeah, we went out we went out to mash and tuck it
Everybody enjoyed the casino had a good time
Brought it brought him back to Boston everybody got their plane back
But Carol and Tom had an extra day and Carol was the one actually bringing the beaver bundle back
Had to go through Montana first
and
And so
Yeah, Carol
Carol and Tom spent an extra day with me I got to tour them around Boston and stuff and
show them my place and
We had a good time. I got to know Carol really well. She ended up becoming the female elder
For the beaver bundle when I got transferred so she taught Adrienne
Yeah, and
When did the bundle leave the museum?
That was May of 1996 I
Started negotiating I think
You know October of November the first of the previous year
So it wasn't it wasn't that long a thing to go through
But it was it I was intense. It was my whole life at that time
You know and one side and one side got that bundle out of the museum
Um the sense that I felt was that like
I've done something, you know like oh, yeah
If I if I if I fucking die
It's okay
So I've done something. Yeah, you know, yeah
So
That bundle went home Alan got transferred and
Then a bottom month later Joyce Spoonhunter calls me and
Says hey, you know that group of elders that came up to Harvard to pick up that bundle
Yeah
So oh there they're going on another tour
They're going to be in Washington DC and then New York and then Chicago
Um I can't go with them but somebody really needs to be there to document
The collections do you think you could do it
So
Yeah, I used what was left of my GI bill
Went on tour with the elders I
Went to meet them in Washington DC. They had no idea I was coming Joyce didn't tell them I
I
Showed up at
The Smithsonian or no was it the Smithsonian? No, it was at the it was at the hotel that we're gonna stay at that night
I think but it was some it was a very regal hotel. I
Don't know where we're staying but it was it was good duds
and
I
Remember I remember seeing four or five of the elders sitting on a marble bench
In the in the foyer
Hope that's fine. Yeah
I'm sorry about this
Okay, sorry for elders sitting on the marble bench
So we left four elders sitting on the marble bench and what which museum
This is in Washington DC. I I can't remember if we
If I actually met them at the Smithsonian to begin with or at our hotel
I think it was probably at our hotel
But it was very regal
It was it was it was right down by the mall somewhere
It was it was fancy digs and
That night I just remember it was very kind of a romantic night. I
Came into
There were four or five people on the bench. There was somebody I didn't know a
young woman
And the others that I've met from before and I think
Narcissus and Martin were there
I think and on that bench
And I think it was one of the two of them
There was like, you know, oh you came all the way from Harvard
You know, like like what what are you doing here? You know, I thought you were with Harvard. I'm like, no, no, no, no
That's where I explained it right there at that bench
Hmm. Ah
They still didn't know they didn't know the whole time. No, oh my goodness
They still thought I was from Harvard
Wow
Um
So, yeah, I I think one of the guys was Narcissus because at that point we rented a limousine
And I was in the limousine I know
with Narcissus and
Alvin his wife and
The young woman who was Margaret Croppierd-Wolf
The one who I didn't know then the new the new player in the group
And
We drove around Washington DC that night and looked at all the cool sights like we were like, you know to the limo driver
You know take us to the Lincoln Memorial take us to this take us to that
We just went to all the cool sights and looked at them with the
With the night light shining on them and all that stuff, you know
That was it was our opportunity
Like we didn't have we weren't gonna have time we're gonna see the museum the next day and then we're gonna be off to New York
So it was that night to see Washington DC
for that I'd already been there but
But it was it was a different kind of visit and so it was it was fun
I toured that night with with Narcissus and Alvin and Margaret and
went around to those
All around Washington DC and had fun
and
Then
The next day we went to the Smithsonian and the Smithsonian security
Is
The highest order like I was I was in military intelligence. I
Was a signals intelligence analyst in the US Army in 98 Charlie
I work top secret missions and stuff and
Like the areas that I worked were not nearly as protected as the Smithsonian's
museum storage
So to get to to get into the Smithsonian's museum storage
What you have to do is go right down to the mall
To the Smith you have to have it set up beforehand, of course, of course, yeah
Yeah, but when that when that when the time has come and you wanted and your day is in your day is there and your appointments there
You're gonna go into storage with in the Smithsonian. You go down to the mall
To the appropriate museum mine was the Natural History Museum
And
You give them your passport and driver's license
And in exchange for that they give you a
Identification card that lets you onto a bus
That bus drives you out of Washington DC
Into a
Maryland to a storage facility
That is just it looks like a it looks like like I've seen lots of maximum security prisons in my life
Across the country. It looks like a maximum security prison. It's all razor wire, you know
double set
perimeter and
you
Go through a gate that the van driver takes you through a gate you pull up to the facility and
When you go in the doors
You exchange your badge that they gave you at the museum
For a badge at this at the storage place and you fill out some paperwork
About yourself
Just basic stuff, you know
They've already set this up and
You
You know, basically you're just signing in you taking a badge and all this and then they assign you
An escort and
So for each member of our party there was a Smithsonian escort
To go through the facilities with
Wow and and and it's massive hey there their facility is massive. Yeah
They got a lot of stuff
And
I've been at the new facility next door to that now as well
Which is the new facility for the American Museum of the or the National Museum of the American Indian, which is a newer
Complex
Even more high-tech but but the all the security stuff is the same hey you have to really go through your shit
Um
Yeah, so it's and then we went through the Smithsonian
We videotaped it
Wait, was that the time no we didn't videotape that time sketch that
Smithsonian later and video with Alan and Chris
That time what happened was the very first thing
Like Joyce had sent me there to take photographs of everything in the collections
And to take notes of everything
You know that they were saying about the collections and all that stuff to document the whole thing, right?
So I took out my camera
Right away and started getting set up and
Martin
My future father-in-law
Said to me. Oh
I hope this isn't gonna end up in the national or the the National Geographic
That's what I hope this isn't gonna end up in the National Geographic
And then I was like, I don't gotta take photographs. You don't want and I put I put it away and
That
Seemed to buy me something
You know
With Martin maybe with others too, yeah
The rest of the day we looked at the the whole collection
I took lots of notes and everything of what they were talking about what they were saying and all of this
But clearly there was a concern about using the camera
There was a concern about and it's an important concern that is easy to overlook because the way we live today
Yeah, right. It's a very important concern
I'm with you. Yeah
Yeah, there was a concern about the camera. They were there were parts of the day where people broke down. They were crying I
Ended up consoling
The young woman
and
We started getting along better through that day
By the end of the day we were on a plane trip to New York
With our Smithsonian notes in hand and
And me and her were getting along really well
We were going to stay in
The what are this place that they had booked us like
Somebody in tribal government had booked us this ratty-ass place in New York City
They didn't know what they were doing, you know
And the place that they booked us we went to we cabbed to
and it was just
like
Like gross and and it was like
Squalor, yeah
Shared, you know shared bedroom shared washroom like shared shared washrooms between like
four people in two bedrooms kind of things and me and this girl were like, oh, we'll stay together and
We we ended up like choosing to stay in a room, but then oh
Francis first charger was there. Hmm. Yeah. Now. I remember he was there, too. And
He was like he was like, no, we're not staying in this place, right?
He got he got a hold of us. He's like now we're not staying here. We're getting out of here
We we're gonna have a meeting with Sumitomo corporation
Downtown
Tomorrow, but they have put us they have they have set us up with rooms in Penn Station
They were penn Pennsylvania Hotel, which is right above Penn Station
They're expensive, but you know, we just got to make it work, right?
so we taxied over to Pennsylvania Hotel and then
Again like me and Margaret were like, oh, we'll just we'll just room together and split the cost
and if I remember Frank like intervening and being like
Like hey, I can I can give you money for another room
extra room we're like, no, we'll just make it work, you know, and
And so
We ended up we ended up rooming together in in Pennsylvania Hotel. We stayed there. I think in New York. We were there
Three nights
maybe four nights
three or four nights, so we were in the in the American Museum of Natural History as well as
the
The high foundation
Which was it was down on Battery Park like where you can see like the Statue of Liberty and that kind of thing
There was a big museum for American Indians kind of called the high foundation
And then that was moved all that all that collection. Well, the the storage for that was in Brooklyn
but
They moved all that collection eventually to Washington DC
To start the National Museum of the American Indian
But back then in 1996 it was still in New York. That's where we visited it first
Hey
So we were there three or four days and
We saw a lot of things and in terms of my life the things that were pretty momentous in New York was
Alan both Alan and Martin
Um
Confronted me one day and told me
You know you're working with us on
These bringing these bundles home and
You should probably get more involved in our ceremonies so you learn more about them and
so
Both of them invited me to their ceremonies
Alan invited me to his
Think it was he's he had a thunder pipe still at the time he had the beaver bundle too now, but it was new to him
I didn't get to see his beaver bundle quite yet. I
think he invited me to his thunder pipe and Martin too and
And
And so
You know I just I don't know I continued the tour but for me
I think the biggest the most momentous thing was was probably just those invites. Hey
You know
And then
And then how did those ceremonies take place that they invited you to
Now that would have been in the summer of they've probably been June ish
In
1996
What I mean is did they take place after you went home?
Home
Back to oh, right. You're actually living on East Coast, aren't you?
Yeah, I was I was living in Boston at the time. Yeah, yeah, of course. Yeah, so where did the ceremonies take place?
in Alberta
When later in June of 1996 and how long after the trip?
Really shortly like weeks after I see okay
I'm just trying to hold the timeline in my head. Yeah. No, it was very it was very quick
Like I did the first repatriation in in May they came
and then by June I was I was with them on this tour and
By the end of the month I was in ceremony in Alberta
And and and and Alberta
Yeah, I was staying well, I was yeah visiting yeah
Yeah, okay. Um, yeah, I was by by June. I was I was there for Martin
By end of June. I was there for Martin and Alan's ceremonies
and then I
Was invited back by Mart like that trip that I came out. I
Think I stayed a couple of weeks and
I didn't even book anywhere to come like anywhere to stay or anything
I just I just came and
Alan set up a tee before me. I stayed a couple of days at Alan's place
and then
Martin set up a tee before me and I was gonna be working like entering my stuff from my database into the
blood tribes
system and
So that was closer to Martin's and so I started staying at Martin's and he said
And you spent any time in a teepee before? No, that's what I thought
Yeah, I lived in a teepee for those two weeks
First to Alan's and then at Martin's
and then
Martin inviting me back for
Go-karts in the Sundance
That summer so I came back and I was back
probably another
couple two three weeks
And so I got to experience my first Sundance and while I was there
Well that wasn't even the Sundance trip, I'm sorry
That was that was the first trip when I came to the Thunderpipes
In in the end of June
There was a day when I was working at blood
At the at the shot both sides building and standoff at the at the blood tribe headquarters
entering my stuff in their database and
Frank came to the building and he asked if he could take me to lunch in Fort McLeod
and
So I told him yeah, so I jumped in his truck
And he took me to lunch in Fort McLeod, but the whole thing was
He was wanting to go after the Thunderpipe that we had seen in the Smithsonian
in Washington, DC and
And
He wanted to go in after that as a vow to try to like he had crippling arthritis like Mahoney, you know
he wanted to go after it to like try to help his arthritis and
He wanted to go after it different he said I don't want to use that law
Said I want to use transfer
Hmm
Say I believe that the elders
In the past that gave the bundles to the museums
did so to
Ensure that the bundles would be here, you know for for other generations to use
but when they
When they did it
You know
However, like there's like there's some stuff that we have documented where they actually we know they transferred, you know
To see in person
But there's other cases where it was just straight out bought and
Franky Frank was like however, however the Smithsonian got to this bundle
Um
Because we didn't really know hey with that one he's like however they got to this bundle he's like
I still like I still consider the Smithsonian the current caretaker owner
And I want to approach them like from my way
with with our kind of respect I
Want them to transfer to me
and
Of course, they don't know the ceremony. I'll have an elder there to do the transfer
But I want their representatives there to transfer to me. Yes, and
I'm gonna pay them like I would pay for a transfer of this bundle and
And they know what the purpose is and I'm gonna explain to them how this bundle came about
How transfer works? You're gonna do that for me. You're gonna write that for me
And so
That was my next mission was to write Frank's repatriation
Which was not like no other repatriation
It was a it was a transfer request
like we wrote it
Like as if I'm going
Because with those particular bundles
Even you don't go and ask for it yourself. You have a mediator go for you
And we did it just like that
And the Smithsonian said that was the best repatriation request they'd ever received
And he still we
Made the bundle come home, you know, wow
Yeah
But it didn't come home before I came back for the Sundance I
Was back for the Sundance before that bundle came home. So I was there for those couple of
pipe ceremonies and then
Martin asked me to come back for the Sundance, which was
Mind-blowing because you know if you're from the modern world
Like I came in
I flew into Great Falls and he picked me up there and even coming from you know, then the East Coast
The city
When you fly into Great Falls all you hear is the wind and it's so
Different this is it's such a different kind of quiet that you don't know and
Then Martin drove me, you know up in
Talberda picked me up in Great Falls drove me up
Into a giant camp and it was nighttime when we got in a
Giant camp of you know fire glowing tepees
like
Like I
Don't know like, you know like you like he was like he was like taking a time
machine or something
like people were riding horses around camp and
Singing and
It's crazy so it's so different, you know
And
Yeah, so I had the Sundance
Went to the spend time at the Sundance
By that time I was I was still kind of
Messing around with that crappier wolf girl. Hmm, but I was also kind of
Checking out Martin's daughter
and
I started talking to her a little one of Martin's daughters and
And then I went back to Boston again
What did I work on at that point
What was the next repatriation I think that's I think that's when the hoopa contacted me
And wanted me to
Started talking to me about negotiating with them for Harvard
Because they had been they the hoopa from California had been really trying to get
their ceremonial things back
From Harvard for a couple of years at least and
Just was just getting shut down
They heard that somebody got something
Can we hire you we've we've got this anthropologist
Who who has worked with us since the 70s who help you, you know
She lives in New York City. You can stay with her. She's got a giant hoopa library, you know
So I took a contract with the hoopa
And then Martin invited me before I went to the hoopa or to New York City
I was still in Boston, but Martin had invited me to a ganotesis a winter ceremony
And so I flew back out to Alberta
to do the ganotesis and
When that at that point like I couldn't stay in a teepee it was winter
So I stayed at Martin's house
And he gave me a truck to use
And he said I need you to
Um
While you're staying here you can use this truck, but I need you to drive
Dan yell around
You know, she needs to she has to go to college every day
But wasn't just like I'd take her to college
Drop her off and bring her back home at the end of the day and stuff and then
But then in evening, you know if anything wasn't particularly happened Martin would be like hey
Maybe you should take the truck and Danielle and go into town and go see a movie or something, you know
He's just encouraging us to be around each other it seemed to me
yeah, and
You know one thing led to another and then I
Was supposed to be going home
I was supposed to be going to Boston and then going to New York
The my flight
It was a particular day and Martin was supposed to bring me down to Great Falls to
To set me off
As we headed down he started going down the back roads of the blood research
I
Never I
Never
Realized it, but we never got off the blood research
Well, I know it now
But he is he was just driving he was just stalling
Driving around the back roads driving around the back roads
Until my flight was I'm gonna be late for my flight
And he's then you know, I'm like I'm not gonna we haven't even crossed the border. I'm not gonna make you
He's like oh, yeah
Well, we should reschedule your flight
Let's go to the lake and check out this there's this place where there's supposed to be these human footprints from like 10,000 years ago, you know
Let's go check those out. So we went to go like explore and have fun and stuff
But basically I missed my flight and I re rebooked my flight for like another
Week or something an extra week, but that bought me time
because
Danielle and I had just kind of got found out by her parents and by Martin and Pam that we were
Hanging out a little more than just driving her to school and stuff and whatever and
And
And so I think Martin bought me some more time with her basically, you know, but anyway, I like
I end up staying there some more
Even though I was supposed to go and then when I went
Then I just sent Danielle a ticket to follow me
And I brought her to New York
uh
with me and
We subsequently eloped
And I started working the hoop pockets, which is a whole nother story
I
Don't know do we want to get into that part or what do we what do you want to do?
Or do you have questions or about any like I continue to do from there
Like I just went into a repatriation like eventually I get to the meteorites and all that shit, too
but um, I
Continue to work black for repatriations, but I started
With a hoop out contacting me let me know that maybe I
Can use what I'm doing to help
Like other people and to make a living because I've been here to for like doing all my repatriation stuff for the black fit
just on my own dime
just for the experience and
Then the the hoop a con contract to me I thought oh
Well, one thing that I've got I've got a database of more than 4,000 worldwide museums that have native collections, you know
Maybe another tribe would want me to recontact those museums and ask for their
Inventories, you know or you know, right?
So I started pitching that around
I
Eventually I got a bite on that from the confederate tribes of Grand Ron and Oregon where I grew up the Kalapuya
mostly
But
Yeah, before that I was in New York. I lived in New York City in the city island
for I
Think I think Mahoney and I were there like four months something like that
The first part of the project
We went to Harvard
To go look at the collection
Okay, and I went with
hoopas
Well, the whole thing like I worked with her with her name was Lee Davis
She's a famous anthropologist
She's she's from your area. She's she's at Berkeley or her last place of employment was at Berkeley
that I knew of but
Like after she worked with me she went to Berkeley again. Yeah, she'd been there before
but
So she was with me the whole time but me and her ended up not getting along
very well at all
Me and Lee. Yeah
Yeah, I'd rather just do my own contract
And uh, not have not have to be in any kind of thing with Lee
Um
But it was it was interesting
You know
We we went to Harvard
first
and
We were um, this was even before Mahoney got there. Hey before uh, Daniel
Before I flew her there when I first got there our first step was we got to go look at the collection
you know
So we went to Harvard
and
Um
Going through the collection an event happened
We were
Pulling like the way that we had we had at work and
was
We were trying to photograph everything
So we could take the photographs and bring them back to California to the Hoop I elders
Share the photographs with them and then get there get them talking about the things, you know
Um, so I could write my claim
and
Um when we were going through the stacks at the Peabody
Anne Marie was with me again
and Marie Victor Howe
and uh, she would
actually like take the item from the drawer
She might have to climb a ladder
A lot of things are up high and shit
She takes an item from a drawer
and
She passes it down to Lee
And Lee would read out the tag number on it
and description
And give it to me
And I had a clipboard
That I would check off the item. So I knew we got each item on the inventory
And when she passed it to me I take the item and I had a
Uh a cart
Hey
And I put it on the cart
And we were going to wheel that into another room
With better lighting and take photographs
So as we're going through the storage
Anne Marie
Picks up this thing from a drawer up high in a ladder
and hands it down
and
Lee Davis
says
stone pipe
98127 whatever the fuck the number was, you know
stone pipe
And hands it to me
and as I'm as I'm
like
Less than a second
From touching it
I can see that this is not a smoking pipe
But this is a this is a is a stone pipe, but it's a it's a board through
Yeah
This is something that doctors used to suck sickness out of people with
And
I that
Recognition hit my mind just as I touched it
And then it was like it was like uh electricity went through my body
And I I started blacking out
And it took everything like
All the concentration that I had
To to put that thing on the cart and let go of it
Before a blacking out and I didn't black out
but
Wait, wait. Okay
Finally six
Okay, we'll go we'll go to the next. Yeah one. Yeah
So you you're at the museum they hand you down the stone pipe
You touch just as you're starting to reach for it. You realize this isn't a smoking pipe
Yeah, I I know what it is. Yeah, you know
I recognize it. I recognize it just at the point where I'm touching it. Yeah
And it almost knocks me to the ground
Like I I don't know I I've had no comparable experience except for one other artifact
That I touched in the museum later that maybe we'll get to
At a further point, but
This was the most intensive this kind of thing
And it it really felt like I was being just
Like I don't know
I was being put to sleep
Electrically in a weird way
And um
I resisted it
Enough to put the the the pipe that I think if I had held on to it even a fraction of a second later
I'd have been on the ground, you know
Like I just barely managed to put that pipe down
Without passing out
And then I immediately
had the worst
kind of
flew and cold
symptoms
like
Flood me in the next five minutes
Wow
that
I had to bow out for the day
um
Like leave the museum
Go to my hotel
And I slept for I think you at 14 hours
And woke up okay again
Hmm
But it was the most bizarre thing
um
But the Hoopa the Hoopa ended up loving it
um
You know, of course I I reported it
Uh later to them like we visited harvard
Photographed all of their stuff and most of the stuff that they wanted out is
Like they're
They're whole traditions very like it's different from the black foot
by a by a long shot Hoopa
Um, they really surprised me like I'm from the west coast. I grew up in
western oregon
And the Hoopa are in this little valley called trinity valley
northern northern california by eureka eureka area kind of you know red woody area
Um, they're they're trinity river spills into the what?
Clameth
Clameth
That goes into the ocean
And what's very interesting there is this where the trinity river meets the clameth
Right you're gonna get a t intersection
Um, the Hoopa is on the trinity river, which is just like a mile and a half long and that's their whole territory
It's maybe maybe a mile and a half wide and a mile and a half long or something like that. It's a very short thing. Okay
Um, the the the Hoopa are there
ups when they hit the t upstream from the t
is karuk and
And
downstream is yurok
And the downstream feeds into the ocean right so yurok connected the ocean
But those three tribes the Hoopa and the karuk and the yurok
Um
Speak entirely different languages from entirely different language families
But practice the exact same
cultural complex and ceremonies and all of that stuff
This is this is one of the cases that
um
Friends boas the first american anthropologists used to try to disprove
That there is any connection
But between culture language and race
So any case they surprised me because
They're um, they still got a lot of their culture
They still got their language. They still got their ceremonies
Um, I experienced magic in Hoopa Valley
Like serious magic, you know
And
um
Yeah, it's it's something else and they're very different like in the old blackfoot stories
Way way back in napi era, which is like the earliest blackfoot stories
Maybe 12 000 plus years ago
The men and the women lived in separate camps
You know
And there's a there's a story
And the place here called Aki Pisk on the women's buffalo jump where it took place
Where where the men and women finally came together to like to live together
here
But before that
Men and women had lived in separate camps and basically women had
pre-pubescent boys with them
You know
But then once they hit puberty they'd go to the men's camp
I can see yeah
And it's it's following, you know, kind of like ungulate type of
knowledge
Here like the deer in the Hoopa. It's the deer
I think here it was the bison
you know
But uh in the Hoopa is the deer
for sure
and
There's a time when the deer get together
for the rut
And that was the only time a year where the men and women could like live together
And so if you were not born
Basically as a tourist like April into May
You are considered illegitimate child in the in the Hoopa. Ah, I see
You were not conceived when men and women are supposed to be together, right?
And that's kind of still the case there
even though
Even though they still like they like they live now
Men like people live with their spouses and all that jazz, you know
my experience there was that
the men are very
effeminate and
The women are very
You know butchie
And it's it's a it's a different kind and they're still like kind of talking about that stuff and in that mind zone, you know, like
Um, yes, yes
It's their way of life. It's their way of life
It is preserved. It's still going on
And we went into their old villages like the old pit houses and stuff where they still do their ceremonies and things
There are um very important
features
that have gone
Missing
from the like official like uh, like if you look at pictures of those villages
At the turn of the century
compared to pictures of the villages in the 1950s or 60s, you're gonna see
Really important things are missing
Those things are still there. They're just like they're just hit
They're there. They're all there everything is everything is still there
um
and uh
There's weird things that can go on there
Yeah, that gives us a good lead in for another chapter
Sure
I I just feel so grateful to be able to be with you tonight and hear these stories. Yeah
It's crazy like I don't know. I don't even like it's it's weird to be uh retelling them because
Um
It seems so fantastic a lot of it now, you know
And I'm just like regular
Blood Indian uh desperate and lethbridge, you know
Yes, well, they were um, they were glorious
They're glorious moments that live on
Still
Yeah
Yeah, it's all still part of part of the whole
Like those are history
that have made
Major ripples like what we did bringing that stuff back
Has changed
Account like it's hard to even imagine how much has changed
The community and the people, you know
A
lot
Education is totally different
I mean as a result
Thank you so much for sharing these I I hope we'll get to um
Continue in a in a very
You know
Nearby moment
In the recording here, we can keep talking
But uh, thank you for for sharing all this rhyme. So you bet so grateful
You bet
You
You
You
You
You
