Recently, my friend Ryan Heavyhead made a video which he called Beware the Rectangles, in which he talked about some of his experiences and concerns relating to the differences between civilized culture and what we might call natural culture, which is our relationship with nature.
And this is my response to his video in which I'm going to explore some similar issues from my own perspectives.
And perhaps during this process we shall discover what the rectangles are up to and ways that we can interfere with that or radicalize our relationship with these strange frames.
But before we do that, I'd like to issue this gentle warning, which is related to the fact that we're going to use something recursively against itself.
Recursion can often be an asset in paradoxical endeavors. This involves sort of bending the threat back upon itself in such a way as to acquire new possibilities of relation or opportunities that have been otherwise obscured.
This paradoxical movement is familiar to martial artists who are often trained to utilize the momentum of an opponent against them rather than having to generate their own momentum and meet the opponent with that.
I consider this to be a peculiar form of invitation to explore something unusual together, and I'm looking forward to discovering some of the less used branches of opportunity in these relationships.
We are a member of a phylum known as Bilateria, which sort of means two-sided, and in this sense we are intrinsically conflicted as animals.
The two sides of our bodies actually work very differently. Our right eye sees differently than our left eye. Our right ear hears differently than our left ear.
And perhaps most familiarly to many of us, our right and left hands do not really work the same. They have very different functions in our common lives, whether we are right or left-handed.
We are a bicameral animal, and our two hemispheres, although they work almost seamlessly together in our experience, actually live very differently in the world.
One of the hemispheres in most, nearly all people, the left hemisphere is primarily or is fundamentally oriented around language and linguistic models.
It is not aware that the other half of the body exists. Given the proper circumstances, such as a stroke that breaks communication between the hemispheres, the left hemisphere will presume that only the right half of the body is itself, and the left half is some kind of strange invader that is somebody else's responsibility.
This is not the case with the right hemisphere. The right hemisphere, although not particularly talkative, is aware of its symbiotic brother or sister in the left hemisphere, and is aware that both sides of the body exist and belong to it.
And so we have a very strange situation where our cultures are primarily driven by what we might call a kind of narrative trance or intoxication with narrative, meaning stories.
The left hemisphere is profoundly adept at making up stories. These stories are often grossly inaccurate or catastrophically reductive, but the left hemisphere doesn't really care about that.
It champions them against all odds and enemies at almost any cost.
And you can see this activity clearly in all of the dangerous aspects of our modern cultures, where we are led into confusing, terrifying, and harmful behavior by stories and texts and laws.
So I think there is kind of an us and them. Even intrinsically, in our own brains and minds, there is a distinction between these two elements, which under the kinds of circumstances we would hope for work very well together,
but under a lot of the kinds of circumstances that we would like to change, do not work well together at all, and get us involved in conflicts and situations that not only are extremely dangerous and unhealthy, but are also based on delusions.
I think that this conflict between the hemispheres is evident in our cultures, but it's also a bit overwrought. The brain and the body is a unity, although it has distinct operating components, we might call them.
It functions largely as a unity. The problem seems to be primarily that the narrative aspects of the left hemisphere or the languaging hemisphere are competitive, virulent, aggressive, domineering, self-aggrandizing, self-interested, and paranoid.
And these elements tend to have strong expressions in our cultural collectives to just speak a little bit further about the us and them problem in our cultures.
It pretty much goes back, or one aspect of it can be traced back to the conflict between what we might understand as people who are traveling over the land, moving with the time and the seasons and food sources, and settled people such as farmers.
This conflict, as well as the hemispheric conflict, is echoed in the biblical story. It probably finds echoes throughout the Bible, but it is specifically echoed in the biblical story of Cain and Abel.
The firstborn is a tiller of earth, obviously a farmer, and the divider of matters much like the left hemisphere. Abel, his rather placid brother, is a shepherd, someone who brings things together.
They end up in a contest at Cain's behest. Cain, again, acting the role of the left hemisphere.
And when it turns out that God prefers Abel's offering, Cain kills Abel, then lies about it, again, echoing the left hemisphere, dominance, paranoia, and storyline fascination.
Abel becomes the firstborn in the land of the dead, or the underworld, perhaps even the land of dreams.
We can see a similar kind of conflict between human culture, which wants to possess, reduce, tokenize, control, and profit from nature,
and nature herself, which is fluid, inclusive, intrinsically self-intimate.
And then there's, I guess, one final conflict that I'd like to mention before I move on, which is the conflict between what I would call idealization and contact in the New Age movement,
and in some similar movements, or I should say the New Age movements.
There's a kind of idealization of nature, which is not necessarily very deeply in touch with it.
And I think this is one of the concerns that my friend Ryan spoke about in the beginning of his video.
And so I just want to take a moment to highlight that there's a real difference between idealizing nature, which is very common in our New Age and naive ideations,
and having the experience of direct contact and understanding with nature.
And of course, I think we really want to argue for the latter, because the former is going to lead us into all kinds of delusions that will make it difficult for us to learn,
for us to grow, for us to understand and take advantage of our actual position here on Earth in the biosphere.
And we don't want to take up a new set of abilities or ideas that's going to make it more difficult for us.
So I'm going to argue for direct contact. Let's set down our dogmas, our religions, our beliefs, and reach for actual contact with nature directly.
As we continue, I'm going to talk a little bit more about the problem with narrative and what we might understand as trance.
Now this is an advertisement for a visual focus that is an asset sometimes used to induce trance or hypnosis.
Rigorously defined, hypnosis is a non-ordinary state characterized by relaxation, heightened suggestibility, heightened imagination, and focused attention.
Sometimes understood as a form of unconsciousness and has been called a non-deceptive placebo in the sense that the hypnotic state can activate capacities that are otherwise unavailable to us consciously.
These capacities can improve our performance, decrease our sense of pain or discomfort, and allow us to work through challenges that pretty much would plague us in our normal consciousness.
Hypnosis is usually preceded by something we call induction, and this ordinarily involves eye fixation to fix the vision on a specific object and to remain fixated on that object until the induction proceeds.
The results are usually catalepsy, rapid eye blinking, or the closure of the eyes, often with a somewhat vibratory characteristic.
Now hypnosis is a complex experience and rigorous hypnosis is normally done with a hypnotist or under self-suggestion has fairly clearly defined elements to it that we can look for and determine whether or not someone is actually hypnotized.
As we proceed through my discussion, I will talk about forms of trance that I think are a little bit more vague, but the hypnotic trance is really pretty obvious and language is often fairly significantly involved.
There's been some controversy over which of the hemispheres are more active during hypnosis, the lateralization aspects of hypnosis, and it appears that the left hemisphere's language functions may provide a doorway for unusual conscious right hemisphere activation or even ascendancy.
But I think that even to this day our ideas about hemispheric lateralization are conflicted. There's a lot of conflicting evidence on various sides of various arguments, and that makes it difficult for us to be certain about what this research actually means.
That doesn't mean we should discard it, but it means that we should take it with a grain of salt, and perhaps as some researchers recommend, bear in mind the unity of the ordinarily healthy brain and mind.
One of the things I find interesting about hypnosis is that it's a readily accessible non-ordinary state for most of us. Most of us can be hypnotized, and it's really quite profound the experience of it.
It varies from person to person and from situation to situation, but it's really surprising how dramatically different it is to be in a hypnotized state than it is to be in our normal waking state.
That said, I think it's my experience that we exist in a somewhat, what I would call a semi-translake state most of the time, and this state varies according to what we are doing, but we may experience relatively deep semi-translake states when we are reading a book and producing a lot of visualization of the content,
but sometimes when we are driving a car or writing, composing writing, when we are deeply engaged in any physical activity such as rock climbing or possibly swimming.
In all of these and many other experiences that we have while awake, we're having an experience of something like a trance, again what I'm going to call a trance-like state,
and it's my relatively naive opinion that when we awaken from dreaming, we emerge from sleep into a stepwise process of entrasment where we begin to come under the sway of paradigms, identity, relation, value, history, what things mean,
what is correct. We wake from the fluid relations of our dreaming experience into the more concrete relations of our narrative trance, our ideas about what things, beings, and relationships are and mean.
Now of course these waking trances do not seem trance-like to us, they seem ordinary. We are largely unaware that we're involved in any kind of a trance, and ordinarily we proceed as if these trance-like states are indistinguishable from ourselves.
There is of course a way, a set of ways to discover more about this, and these involve something that I would contrast with hypnotism, and that is meditation.
Meditation is an intentional awareness practice of some sort, and of course in the various forms there are a wide variety of goals. These include relaxation, insight, clarity of mind, focus, clarity of awareness, nurturing visionary experience, and sometimes acquiring wisdom.
Although the available forms of meditation differ dramatically, they tend to agree in certain basic ideas. One of them is intimacy with the breath to follow the breathing.
Another is to avoid trance, and particularly not to follow thoughts, which leads to something we might call semantic or narrative sobriety.
In general meditation is an experience of allowing a kind of inner silence to pervade the mind, and this could also be understood in the castanet and sense as not doing, in other words, not doing something.
Now this symbol is very different from the spiral that we saw in the previous image, the hypnotic induction key.
This symbol is a kind of organic natural circle, could be understood as the image of something that is circling back upon itself and seeing its source from its developmental side.
Notice also that the circle is open to nature, and that it's organic, it's imperfect, it's not really mechanical.
This symbol is called the anso, and is a favorite symbol in Zen practice, where it doesn't so much indicate anything particular, but can be understood as having something to do with original mind.
The mind before the acquisition of many cultural accoutrements, habits, and paradigms.
So I would contrast meditation both with the narrative trance and with hypnosis.
However, like our cult-like beliefs, there are many branches of study that invoke meditation as practice, and these have many, many different goals.
Certainly someone can practice meditation in a very confused way, in a way that doesn't really resolve itself into insight,
that can even further or deepen any existing confusion we might have.
Now that we've looked at both the spiral as a trance induction key or trigger, and the anso as something of its opposite, I'd like to examine a more common shape, the rectangle.
Of course, I'm recording this on the rectangle of my computer sitting at the rectangle of my desk.
You are looking at this more likely on a rectangular screen.
In my room I am surrounded by rectangles, my books are rectangles, my DVDs are rectangles, my video games are rectangles, my notepad.
Everywhere we go in our culture, the windows and doors in my rooms are rectangular.
We are encountering this specific shape, the rectangle.
I mean, if we go to the store, we will find everything packaged in the rectangles.
We go to a rectangle to pay for it with little green rectangles or a check in the shape of a rectangle.
They take these little boxes and put them in a rectangular bag and we walk out of the big rectangle with a bag full of rectangles.
So, to say that the shape is ubiquitous is kind of a grave understatement.
It is everywhere in our culture and Ryan's argument is that it is both a signal for us to undergo induction, which is a reasonable and very provocative idea.
And also that it is a virulent transport of cultural content.
This is the window through which our civilized quote unquote cultures deliver their content to us.
And this is, as I said, a powerful and provocative argument.
Another way to understand the rectangle is a frame which authorizes and gives importance and sort of verifies the content that it conveys.
Now, of course, we are trained to pay attention to the rectangle from the time we were children.
We watch cartoons and videos and films.
When I was younger, it was mostly television, but now in our time, we watch movies and we watch our computers.
The internet is, of course, a mass of rectangular transports.
And the idea that it's an induction trigger is a reasonable one.
When we see something surrounded by a frame like this, we're much more likely to give it our attention, to authorize it, to believe in it, to sort of follow it as though it's been verified, it's been vetted, it's worth agreeing with.
There's a word that I'm looking for and missing at the moment, but it legitimizes, and that's the word.
The frame legitimizes whatever content it seems to be conveying.
Now, this is a very dangerous thing because, again, the organizing intelligences that are involved in producing the content are probably very confused about what it means to be human,
what nature is and is for, and what our relationship with our own humanity and with each other and with nature is actually about.
In fact, what we largely get through the auspices of the rectangle are these strange delusions and provocations and hyperboles of the left hemisphere's rather paranoid, domineering agenda.
Now, this isn't to say that everything within a rectangle is poisonous.
Of course, the rectangle produces or delivers many beautiful, astonishing and insightful insight generating elements of content as well or streams of content.
But we should be clearly aware of the ubiquity of this window and of its powerful pseudo-trans-inducing properties.
Only with this awareness will we have the opportunity to perhaps interfere with, co-opt, radicalize and amend some of the problems that our long relationship with this window produces in our ideas, our cultures, our behaviors.
Before I continue, I'd just like to talk a little bit about a few words.
There is the idea of being in trance and I see this as opposed to the idea of entering or the idea of entrance.
This is the difference between having a story about a relationship that I might have or be involved in and actually entering that relationship consciously, intimately, in a kind of non-hypnotic fashion.
There are some important words that use this trans phoning that don't specifically relate to trance and yet I think there is a connection here.
Words like transmission, transfer, transcendence and transformation.
These imply, at least metaphorically or through pun, that trance is involved in missions, trance is involved in exchange, trance is involved in growth and trance is involved in modulation.
And I think you'll find that the kind of trance or I think it's worth exploring that the kind of trance that's being discussed here is not entirely hypnotic.
It's a trance of living immediacy, a kind of a flowing fire of learning, which was our constant state prior to the onset of our linguistic skills as infants.
Most of us have experienced this thing that I'm going to call fire of learning or a flowing, highly charged experience of intimate absorption in a task and in an environment and in a set of relations and behaviors,
which I actually believe is our natural state. I think this is what's getting replaced by the rectangle delivered content, by our cultural hypnosis, by our narrative intoxication.
And so as I proceed, I'm going to talk more about this peculiar state of high speed learning, which I think is not exactly a trance.
There are experiences that invite us into this state, and many of these have been replaced in our modern cultural milieu with relationships with technology, objects, cash, abstractions, tokens, representations, images, moving images, etc.
Now, in order to get a really good sense of just how deep the cultural trance that we're ordinarily enmeshed in is, it's pretty much necessary for us to escape that culture.
This can be really difficult for those of us who are enmeshed in it. Some of us live kind of on the edge in between our culture and nature,
and there are some few of us who live almost very directly with nature. Of course, the vast majority of us live completely enmeshed in culture.
When I was a teenager, at about age 14, I left my culture completely. This is an image of the place that I left from.
You'll notice some interesting features of this image. There is a large body of running water here, a river, which happens to be the Russian River in California.
There is a large building with rooms. A hotel happens to be the Highland Dell Hotel, which my mother was managing at the time when I ran away from home.
And behind the hotel, you'll notice a large stand of trees, and up in that place back there, there's not much culture going on.
One can pretty much escape the rectangles. Now, this is where I ran away from, and at the time, my interests didn't have a lot to do with education.
They had a lot to do with rebellion. But in escaping the constant influence of the rectangles and my culture, and specifically the clock,
I discovered some of the keys that induce the sort of fire of learning that I am interested in sharing with you.
And one of those keys, perhaps one of the most important of those keys is water.
The exposure to this body of flowing water actually made me feel like a different type of creature.
And after being exposed to this body of flowing water regularly, I realized that I did not want to go back to a place where I wasn't exposed to this body of flowing water.
In other words, somehow me and the body of flowing water were intimately involved with each other, and that involvement called me to a different experience of being human.
In that experience, I began to discover crucially important things like the sun.
This is an element of our experience which, when we live indoors or deeply immersed in culture, is often at least gravely mediated, if not almost completely eliminated from our experience.
Of course, we tend to remain aware of day and night, but we don't pay a lot of attention to the sun.
When you are outdoors, when you are living outside of culture, the sun becomes perhaps the single most powerful and obvious relational element in the entire world of your experience.
You wake with it, you sleep with it, you are constantly aware of its state, its location.
You have feelings based on this relationship, and of course the sun produces another really profound effect when it is producing light on water, as in this image.
That is one of the most powerfully transinducing visual experiences that I have come across in nature, and it's one that should not be missed.
We are inherently predisposed to watch and to change in the presence of sunlight shifting on a liquid surface.
Of course, another of the important aspects of our experience, which is often lost in culture, is a direct relationship with the sky.
The moving, changing visual panoply of clouds and atmosphere and weather is one of the most crucial aspects in producing and deepening this feeling of fire of learning,
or the inherently ecstatic learning capacities that are part of our evolutionary heritage.
When we are divided from the sky, from seeing and being under it, we suffer, and many aspects of our ordinary growth and development are inhibited by this.
Another of the natural keys that invokes non-ordinary intimacy in relation is the moon.
This is an object in the sky that goes through phases with which we can easily track time.
In order to do so with the sun, you pretty much have to be familiar with a civilized calendar.
But given the phases of the moon, it basically comprises a kind of natural calendar,
which anyone who is living away from culture becomes immediately aware of and intimate with.
By day we see, by the singular light of the sun, all things are lit and colored.
And by day we sort of understand ourselves as a singular consciousness.
I am me, I am the one who sees.
At night, when there are many sources of light and the environment is darkened and color fades away to shades, our consciousness changes dramatically.
And it's easy to have a direct experience of this, just to be outdoors talking with people at a gathering as the light fades to darkness,
and notice how this experience radically transforms as the light dissipates.
The moon is different from the sun in that the sun is so bright we rarely look directly at it,
but the moon is an object that draws all the living eyes on the night side of the world toward it.
In that sense, it's a kind of unifying bowl or lens that all eyes can see at the same time.
It's a very powerful thing to realize that all the living beings over a large stretch of the planet can see the moon at the same time.
I think the other thing that I wanted to point out was that the singularity of our consciousness in the daytime tends to transform to a multiplicity of consciousnesses,
particularly in sleep when we dream and we inhabit and embody multiple possibilities of self rather than just a singular concrete identity.
As I mentioned previously, I think one of the most profound and astonishing of the learning transinduction elements in nature is the action of light upon water.
With the correct environment and practice, this specific visual phenomenon is one of the most astonishing things I've ever encountered.
In fact, there is a sort of rhythm that tends to happen in water like that which is pictured here as the reflections warp and morph in a sort of pulsing pattern.
And over time with familiarity, one can actually feel this pulsing begin to happen in the body, in the belly, as one observes it in a state of clear awareness.
This is such a profound source of non-ordinary cognitive and relational momentum that I strongly suspect it vastly preceded any drug use or the use of intoxicants by our species.
And I want to talk a little bit here about both of those things.
So I think what ends up happening in our culture is because we are not given training and understanding.
We are not usually given into the experience of this ecstatic intimacy, this deep relational awareness which really is our human nature as an animal to have this.
Just like the other animals have it almost all the time, not being confused by language, not being accessible to narrative trances as we are.
You know, when you look in the eyes of another being or speak to an animal and it doesn't respond, at first it's very surprising and one is disappointed and thinks, well, why don't they talk?
But later one recognizes that they're doing something far more intimate than talking, they're extending their awareness into the relation in a much more direct way.
And so I think that what happens in our culture, particularly with our youth, our teenagers, is that we are evolutionarily developed in such a way that we expect to be initiated into this way of intimacy around the time we begin to reach our teenage years.
And since there are no mentors in our culture, there are many mimics and substitutes, but no real mentors who can take us into this non-dogmatic, very naturally human intimacy.
What happens is there's a kind of subconscious rebellion or a rebellion of the unconscious which recognizes that this is the time when we're to be initiated.
We're not being initiated, there's no initiation forthcoming, therefore we have to kind of initiate ourselves and unfortunately we're not very skillful at this and so what ends up happening is we acquire the cultural substitutes of the initiation,
which tend to be things like drugs, particularly psychedelic drugs, alcohol, marijuana, tobacco, caffeine, behavioral adventurism, what we might call aggressive anarchism, which is a kind of anarchism that just attacks anything that sort of moves.
And sexual adventurism, not to say that there's no reasonable application for intoxicants or that anarchism doesn't have a place in our culture or that sex isn't wonderful or that behavioral adventurism isn't exciting.
I think all of those things have their place in our culture and our lives, which we get to decide on personally, but in our culture we don't really get to make that much of a decision.
The culture is deciding for us by denying us the avenues that we need to deeply experience and inhabit our innate relational potentials which so vastly surpass anything that drugs can possibly deliver that I really want to highlight were being ripped off here.
The experiences that are directly available through relational intimacy are shockingly more profound than the wildest kinds of psychedelic trance and this is the big secret that has remained hidden behind the substitutes that our culture is consistently offering.
So I'd like you to understand this as an invitation to scare the rectangles, to escape the substitutes, to rediscover the innate power of the incredible array of relational intimacy options that are your human heritage that have been evolutionarily conserved
from the times of our most primitive ancestors to the present moment.
Now of all the possible inductions into this fire of learning that I'm talking about, this flowing intimacy of fascinated ecstatic discovery, there are probably none more powerful for us than these human eyes.
In each other's eyes we discover a kind of a flow as if the eyes are emitting content, but it is not linguistic content and in fact it's nonverbal content.
As you can see from this very startlingly beautiful image, it's a kind of silence that contains what we might call implications or an invitation and it is fundamentally an invitation to wonder, to learning, to intimacy and to relation.
But I would like to highlight that it is not merely the eyes of humans that present this opportunity, but the eyes of all living beings and of course not just the eyes, the various facets of the being that we can see, the flower, the hand, the tail, the ears,
all of these aspects of living beings can serve anciently familiar shapes and gestural repertoires that surpass vastly our verbal capacity.
So I think what I would like to also recognize here is that we're in danger of losing our common ability to connect with our eyes.
We spend so much time, many of us, staring at technological projections in cell phones, computing pads, laptops, computers, televisions that we often prefer and feel somewhat perhaps protected by staring into these objects even while we are with those with whom we are intimate or our beloved companions.
This is a very dangerous kind of habit that seems to be indicative of a trance state, a state of confusion, a state where we are kind of safely accepting the representation rather than entering the challenge of learning and wonder which is the promise of living intimacy with other beings.
And so I want to invite you to recognize that this living intimacy is inviolably important to our cognitive development, our emotional development, our capacity to become intelligent and specifically these unique experiences that I'm speaking of when I talk about the fire of learning,
that is I think our natural state inhibited by many of our modern habits.
Before I go, I'm going to talk a little bit about something that Ryan also spoke of which was the capacity of a seemingly small force or animal to deal adeptly with a much larger force or creature.
In order to talk about this, I'd like to introduce you to one of my favorite organisms on Earth, the gonon flower mantis.
This is probably a pseudocreabotrus wild bergi or possibly a pseudocreabotrus osylata, which means eye spot.
My first introduction to this specific creature was really shocking.
I had one of these, which is an incredibly small animal about an inch, perhaps an inch and a quarter in length.
This is a nymph here, a young, very young creature.
The one that I had on my finger, which was at a friend's house, was third instar, so this would represent essentially a teenage, approximately a teenage creature.
I had it on my finger and there was a man in front of me who was about, I would say, 5'7", 140 pounds.
The man was excitingly talking about how he was frightened of insects.
This insect began to weave slightly and when the man made a sudden gesture raising his hands, this creature ejected a tiny droplet of water about the size of a pinhead from its abdomen, which you can see folded up behind it there in the image.
And as if in slow motion, I watched this tiny droplet of water leave its abdomen and fly directly into the pupil of the man who had suddenly, rather threateningly raised his hands.
The result of this action was that he was knocked back approximately 4 feet and landed on his back as though he had been shot by a bullet.
In other words, a tiny creature who's only actually been alive on earth for about 3 months, with no narrative capacities whatsoever, zero representational language,
could identify the difference between a friend and a foe and could appropriately act in a situation of threat in such a way as to completely disable their foe without injuring them.
By using a drop of water, the size of a pinhead, there aren't many human faculties or behavioral possibilities that come close to what this creature demonstrated.
And what I'd like to highlight about it is that it's a perfectly natural set of relations for this creature, which is enmeshed in the kind of fire of learning that I was speaking of.
That fire of learning identified me as an ally, which was correct, and identified the other man as a possible foe, which was correct.
And it allowed the creature to deal with a foe some 10,000 times its mass, perhaps more, very adeptly without injuring the foe in such a way that was striking, memorable, and would not likely result in the foe approaching this creature ever again.
In other words, a profound demonstration of power.
Now there's actually a myth in Africa, a story, a narrative, about a problem with elephants, where elephants were trampling and destroying large swaths of crops.
And the inhabitants of this place went to talk to the mantises about this, for the mantises were understood to be wise and capable creatures who were ancient and could have an answer.
After talking with the mantises, as the story goes, the mantises knocked the elephants down with farts.
I think you can see that the story contains a reflection of a relatively shocking truth.
And what I want to point out here fundamentally is that size has nothing to do with capacity.
Or, rather, that the depth of focus, the kind of fire of learning, this trance-like experience that I speak of,
puts us in a position to utilize natural assets in ways that are unexpected, extraordinarily powerful, beautiful, provocative, and inherently functional.
Many of the narrative-driven strategies that we involve are prone to be extremely expensive, dangerous, ineffectual.
Once we get them started, they don't want to shut down, they're self-aggrandizing, these processes become self-interested as their adherents come to identify with these processes.
And so, again, we see the difference between the sort of trance-like behavior of civilization and the innate intelligence that is instinctively implicit in nature.
And by this word, instinctively, I do not mean mechanically, I mean prodigiously, I mean a form of genius that is preserved and passed on generation to generation,
in a way that certainly goes far beyond DNA, for we should realize that DNA and the environment form a unity that informs each other.
The environment is memory, in the same way is extrinsic memory, in the same way that DNA is intrinsic memory.
And these two elements must continually inform and transform each other.
I think we've taken an interesting journey through some of the related concepts that Ryan brought up in Beware the Rectangles.
We may even now find ourselves armed to scare the rectangles.
And before we go, I'd just like to take one last look at another window which is too easily obscured and one which should fill us with wonder and invite us into the fire of learning
that I think it's so often invoked in our ancestors and even in ourselves as children, and that is the starry sky.
This is something that is lost to many of us in our modern context to light pollution.
But what a shocking invitation to wonder, to dreaming, to intimacy, to beauty, and to the profound and ineffable character both of our minds and our universe.
With that, I hope that you will join me in transforming our relationship with culture, in recovering and remembering our relationships with each other, with nature and living beings,
particularly with water, which is the most crucial asset that we are currently destroying on our world.
And I look forward to continuing this discussion together.
Thank you for joining me.
