In the tradition of Ryan's recent gentle rant called Beware All Rectangles, I have decided
to compose an answer where I explore some similar topics from my own perspective of understanding.
And I think as we proceed together we may learn to put a bit of the fear into these
rectangles. But before we begin I'd like to issue this gentle warning. In this video we
are going to use rectangles to question rectangles and to defy other rectangles. In fact I think
we're going to have a kind of tangled path here. But given a little insight and inspiration I think
we'll find our way to an interesting position somewhere within. Hypnosis is effectively
in what we might call a non-ordinary state in that although we can commonly experience forms
of trance in our everyday lives, to be actually hypnotized in the specific meaning of the term
is to be placed into a deep sense of imaginative awareness. This is often accomplished by visual
focuses like the one illustrated here. Traditionally the spinning spiral has been a tool used by
older hypnotists to induce to help induce trance. And this is done by a process of visual
attenuation where the subject focuses on a specific object for a long period of time. And that focus by
itself tends to help to induce trance. The other aspect of sensing that is often used to induce
trance is an auditory sense. The sense of the music of a person's voice, the rhythm of their
language, and also the tonality. So hypnotism is itself something we do. To be hypnotized is to be
in a hypnotic trance. Normally this has a fairly narrow definition that lies within standard
hypnotic procedure and containers. However, there are I think other similar forms of trance that
we experience pretty commonly sometimes when we are driving. We may actually kind of forget the
travel between the two places which indicates a sort of trance. And I have a fairly radical
belief myself which is that what we call waking awareness is actually largely for most of us
trance-like most of the time. So we awaken from sleep and begin immediately entering a trance-like
state composed of habits and language, ideas, paradigmatic ways of viewing ourselves, the
world, our history, experience, things like this. And I think that my theory, which may be very
naive, is that when we experience hypnosis we're just sort of redirecting a trance which is already
pretty much in place. The trance of our waking consciousness or the various streams of trance
therein. And we would perhaps contrast the experience of being hypnotized, which is awfully
very relaxing, often a very relaxing experience, with the idea of meditation in which in most
traditions the practitioner is encouraged not to enter trance or to endeavor not to enter trance.
That is to remain awake and aware and perhaps continue deepening that awakeness and awareness.
This practice ordinarily involves allowing the mind to become very settled, not to follow thoughts
and a deep sense of the feelings of our senses, our body, our skin, breathing particularly.
And so this symbol, which is not necessarily an induction device, is indicative of the mind of,
for example, Zen meditation, very graceful, very natural, kind of a living circle open to the
world, not just leading to its core but open to the world, the world of living things in fact.
So we've seen two symbols now, one associated with hypnotic induction and one associated with
insight and awareness. We then come to this symbol, the rectangle, which I think Ryan has
offered as a kind of induction key, something that invites us into trance that is ubiquitous
everywhere in our culture. For example, at the moment I'm sitting in a rectangular room with two
rectangular screens. One of them is my computer on which I am recording this. I'm sitting at a
rectangular desk. Almost all of the art on my walls is rectangular. All of my books are rectangular.
My money is rectangular. I'm writing pads are rectangular videotapes and video games are
rectangular. The list goes on. We go down to a store. They put things in little rectangles to
sell them to us. They put those in rectangular bags. We walk out of the rectangle where we
bought the rectangles with a bag full of rectangles. It's pretty ubiquitous. It's perhaps
the most significant single shape in our culture and Ryan's implication that this is an induction
device, that this is an invitation to a particular set of kinds of trances is extremely provocative
and hard to ignore considering the ubiquity of this shape in our cultural experience. He,
I think, and I are both aware that this frame, if you will, which authorizes and sort of
credentials, whatever appears within it, is in fact an invitation to, at the very least,
attention, if not a kind of trance. And since we've been watching trances like television
programs, advertisements, movies and such on these rectangles, in fact, even theater occurs
usually on a rectangular stage, we can, it's not such a stretch to imagine that this shape is an
induction trigger at least, in our culture at least, but in many cultures quite obviously. And
often this message that is coming through is really the propaganda of that culture and its
sub-factions. And so, you know, we use the internet on rectangles, our browsers are
rectangular, the little boxes we post in our rectangles, emails are often usually rectangular.
The ubiquity of this one shape is pretty astonishing. Now, if you were to leave culture
entirely, if you were to break your bonds with this culture all the way, and just go back to
living outside, for example, you would immediately become viscerally aware of other windows of
induction. And part of the problem here is that, that I want to point out is, is that the extreme
pervasiveness of the rectangle is replacing something, this induction window is replacing
something far more exciting and momentous than anything delivered within, you know, and by our
rectangles. And were you to break your bonds with culture and go become wild, and I don't just mean
go camping. Although even in that experience, I think some of the other induction windows will
become available. You would immediately discover what was being replaced. You would experience
entrance instead of being in trance. And what you would be entering would be an experience of the
natural human animal, and your relationship with the environment. I think it's also important
before I go on to show some of the induction windows that have been replaced by the rectangle,
is just to mention these two words, transmission. This is actually a word when we use it to indicate
the exchange of meaningful information or content, we're acknowledging that meaningful information
and content, the experience of exchanging it comprises a form of trance. And this is similarly
implied when we use the word transformation to transform something requires and naturally
elicits a form of trance. We've forgotten this for two, at least two very important reasons.
The first is that the trances that are induced by the rectangles rarely acquire the momentous
prodigy of the natural trances that we might enter in other contexts and with other induction
windows. So what I'm getting out here is that the rectangle delivers peculiar forms of content
that induce a peculiar kind of trance. Our natural ability to enter trance is shockingly
broader than anything the rectangle can induce, and generally happens only with each other or in
deep intimate contact with nature. And the second reason which I left out there was specifically
that in our isolation from nature within our cultures, we commonly don't have experiences of the
kind of trance that I'm speaking of, which is effectively a sort of an experience of being in
a flow of learning that is electrically charged with meaning and transformation. This often happens
to us when we're in intimate contact with nature. It rarely happens through the auspices of the
rectangle, including even now. So what trance windows am I talking about that the rectangle is
replacing? Well, the most obvious of them is the forest. This is actually the place where I left
culture myself, and you'll notice that there's a lot of interesting things in this picture. There's
a large building that says hotel on it, and there's flowing water, a river, it's actually a Russian
river in California, and there's a big stand of trees right behind it, which is some relatively
wild terrain back there that leads toward Bohemian Grove. That's where I left culture, and that's
where I discovered things like the sun, and the kind of relationship that one has with this
throughout the day when living outdoors beyond culture and beyond the grip of most of the
rectangles. This is a fundamental element in one's daily experience. Not only that, but the
specific activity of light upon water is one of the most transinducing visual experiences I've ever
encountered is consistently mind-blowing when one is paying close attention to it. And of course,
then at night, the other obvious window is the moon, which goes through phases that mark time.
It's not very easy to mark time by the sun, unless you're familiar with the calendar, but with the
moon, you could learn to mark time very accurately due to its phases. And the influence of the moon
and the sun on our cognition and the state of our awareness is so profound that it's difficult to
quantify, but it's one of the things that gets immediately lost when we're immersed in culture,
particularly the culture of the rectangles. Of course, as I mentioned previously, light on water,
the way that light plays upon water is a deeply transinducing experience to behold. And it's quite
astonishing because there are rhythmic pulses in the way this often happens on water, that with
long enough exposure can become a somatic feeling sort of in your belly, where it's almost as if
your insides begin to dance with the rhythm of the changing dappled light on the water surface.
Now, of course, perhaps the most deeply transinducing window is the most obvious one,
which we've often seen used in probably old movies about hypnotism, the eyes of living beings.
Now, of course, we're mostly familiar with looking deeply into the eyes of other humans,
but I also mean the eyes of many animals. So I think these windows are perhaps the most profound
of all the living windows that invite us into, again, a kind of a unbelievably profound way
of learning that has little to do with gathering tokenized information and a lot to do with being
immersed in sensing and in relation with place, moment, context, another being like this one,
like you, like me. Particularly, I find this to be true of animals and even insects.
Orion also spoke briefly about the power of a small creature to affect a large enemy,
and this is one of my favorite creatures. There's an example of that. This is a pseudo-creaturous
Walbergi or possibly a pseudo-creaturous Osalata, a flower mantis native to Ghana. This insect is
approximately an inch and a quarter in length. It's very tiny. And I once saw one of these insects
knock a man down and backward four feet simply by ejecting a small droplet of water from the tip
of its abdomen directly into his pupil at a range of about five feet from me. So this creature,
while sitting on my finger, took out a five foot seven, 145 pound man with a droplet of water
about the size of a pinhead. Through some motion of its abdomen, it directed that tiny
droplet of water into his pupil and he flew backwards as though he had been shot by a
bullet and landed on his back. This would be like if you yelled at the Transamerica pyramid
and it leapt across the San Francisco Bay and landed in Oakland. So it seems that focus is a lot
more important in some cases anyway than numbers. And of course skill matters, but this creature is
acting, I think, to a large degree by what we would call instinct. I don't believe that that allows us
to write it off as mechanical. I think it's a form of innate prodigy. And a creature like this is
constantly in the learning trance that I was speaking of before the kind of natural trance of
being completely immersed in a non rectangular environment, in a living context, where everything
matters. With one of these beings, he climbed on its finger, me, with another of these beings,
he knocked it down with a tiny droplet of water. The other gentleman who was there,
he didn't attack me, he only attacked him. He knew which one to attack, even though he doesn't
really get into rectangles or language or books or anything. This being knew the difference between
an ally and a foe and had no problem dealing adeptly with its really quite magnificent foe.
Of course, that man could have gotten up and, you know, been offended and tried to kill this
creature, in which case I might have defended it, but that's another hypothesis. I think the main
point is that in our natural state, in the trance of learning, we have access to inherent forms
of prodigy that are denied us by the rectangle and our relationship with it. Some of these forms
of prodigy involve learning, some of them involve relations, some of them involve problem solving.
There are a wide array of assets that we're carrying that really only activate when we're
deeply engaged in the learning trance. I think this is part of why as teens we become adventurous,
is because we're expecting to be initiated into the path of the learning trance, but there are
no such really such vectors in our culture, so we end up with drug abuse, sexual adventurism,
behavioral adventurism. Some substitutes that really I feel are tragically inferior to the
natural assets and capacities that would easily be activated if only there were a context to do so.
The finest context for that to happen in is nature, with plants and animals outside the world of
clocks and screens and books and written language. I think when we deeply enter nature, in a sense we
are experiencing a kind of meditation that will bring us within ourselves more deeply. We follow
nature into new possibilities within ourselves, and these possibilities many of them can only be
awakened in contexts that are largely unfamiliar to us in our modern cultures with our dependence
and addictions to technologies. A few of us would realize that because we just don't have the
direct experience of it, that nature is itself a learning universe, and so everything within it
is in this kind of fire of learning trance, and that's the closer that we are to that the more we
kind of naturally follow along with its tempo, its character, its prodigy, its rhythm, its creativity,
its fertility, its tragedy, its courage, its power. I will probably talk more about this
learning trance and how we might have a chance to enter it together, for we certainly can call
each other into it in contexts that allow us to be a little more of ourselves than the academic
and professional contexts that we ordinarily obey do. Of course the other wonderful trance
generating windows the sky particularly at night, and unfortunately as well in our cultures light
pollution often blocks or even silences this window. One more way in which our immersion in
culture takes away the natural windows of learning trance and replaces them with framed
constructs, tokenizations, reductions, models, the message of the culture. That's not the whole
story though. There are many profoundly beautiful uses of the rectangle, but if we are not clearly
aware of how pervasive and powerful the frame can be, then perhaps we are too easily swayed by
the spin contained therein. With this knowledge we've shared here, I think we might just have the
chance to scare the rectangles together. And that's my gentle rant. Wise dreams to you.
