Hi, thank you for joining me. My name is Darren Stevenson. You're probably watching my YouTube
channel. You can find me by that name in San Francisco on Facebook or I do a lot of posting
and talking about topics that I'm interested in. I also have a blog at wondercloud.wordpress.com
and I run a website called organelle.org where you can find some of the remains of my developmental
speculations. I've been talking a lot about a specific topic which is sort of the ongoing
competition for our attention between science and religion. Lately there's been a lot of
news about this because there's been some debate apparently between people who have
various arguments that frankly I don't find them all that interesting but I think they're
important because they have implications about our culture and our intelligence that run very
deep. So I want to talk again about science and religion and I probably won't be finished this
time because I'm really learning how to have this discussion partly by making these videos.
The first thing I want us to understand is that there's no such thing as religion. It
actually doesn't exist. Religion is a word and it doesn't mean anything except what we
intended to mean in a sentence. So religion by itself does not exist. What exists are people
enacting principles that revolve around ideas that we call religious. Some of these ideas are
written down. Many of them are written down. But there's no such thing as religion by itself.
It doesn't exist. The only thing that exists really on earth is people writing things and talking
about things and doing things that we call religious. So those people doing those things
are what we really mean by religion and religion itself that doesn't exist. The same thing is
true of science. There's no such thing as science. Science cannot say or tell you anything because
science isn't a speaker. It doesn't do anything by itself. It's just a word. It's a word that we
use to talk about a way of knowing and that's what actually both of these these two strange
words represent. They are ways of knowing. There is there are religious ways of knowing and there
are scientific ways of knowing. Now most of these ways of knowing have purposes and the purposes
that they claim are not always the purposes that they actually serve when humans start acting
them out. So religions claim is to either tell us about or protect us from the problems or
possible opportunities related to what they call our spirit which they suppose is something
separate from us that we get when we're born and maybe goes away or travel somewhere when we die
and they're really worried about apparently about certain kinds of bad things we might do down here
that could cause the big problems for our spirit when we die and they use this many religions do
to terrify us. Basically almost all the religions do that and almost all of the religions paint
earth as a bad place. It's a battleground where evil things happen and even strangely enough the
Buddhists which you would think would be outside of this whole conversation about good and evil
in any serious way they seem to believe at least I may be misunderstanding them they seem to believe
that it's not so great to be born that really what you want to do is evade birth and that birth is
kind of a result of being improperly sort of enlightened or incompletely enlightened unless
you're a Bodhisattva in which case you come down here to help the people who aren't enlightened
and that's a very crude position or picture of Buddhism but nonetheless the problem is that
religion seems to think that earth is a bad place and most of the religions don't want us to pay any
attention to nature of any real kind and they think that earth is basically just a battleground
which frankly is utterly ridiculous. Now science on the other hand has a different agenda they want
to tell us about the things that we can be most certain about that have to do with what we perceive
and they also tell us about things that have to do with forces and relationships that we can
pretty close to verify by testing them and that means that every time you look at a phenomenon
in a certain way you'll get pretty much the same result and so you can come to the belief that you
know something about it and one of the things that's weird about science and religion is that
religion probably will sort of take responsibility for the very difficult and sometimes bad things
that it has done. It often produces wars because some of the religions believe that apparently
God writes in books which is one of the most ridiculous ideas I've ever encountered in my
human life and is completely absurd and has nothing to do with God, nothing and they also
believe that God writes books that tell people to kill each other and to torture each other
and to hate the earth and to punish each other. It's pretty surprising that anyone who still
has a mind left could ever be convinced of such a ridiculous idea. That idea is completely stupid
and the people who are willing to believe that have either been hypnotized, literally they've
been put in a trance so that their consciousness and their intelligence has just been wiped out
and replaced with a description that's utterly nonsensical. Now that is not to say that the Bible
and the Quran and similar holy books, quote unquote holy, have nothing to say that is of value.
In fact my experience is quite the opposite. These books do in fact contain in many cases
astonishing opportunities for learning and understanding and they have almost nothing
to do with the religions that are worse of these books, almost nothing. So if you look very deeply
into the books themselves you're going to find astonishing, how should I put this, astonishing
doorways into discovery and intelligence and understanding and experience but they're not
likely to have much to do with any of the religions who go around telling you these books are good
and I'll get to the reason for that in a minute. Now science on the other hand is similarly confused,
let me explain. Biologists who study life on earth actually go around killing things all day long
and they don't just kill them, they torture them. Not just a few things, they torture millions or
actually billions of living beings every day, all day, every day for hundreds of years now
and they think that not only is this good and fine to do, they recommend it because we get
data about it. In other words it's okay to torture living beings or even destroy them
to get information. Information is basically just numbers and letters that are descriptions.
That idea is catastrophically misfounded and is at least as stupid, if not more stupid and
deadly, than the idea that God writes books. Both of these ideas are cripplingly dumb.
Science however has a lot sort of going forward in terms of being an authority and by the way,
that's what's going on in both of these camps, we're trying to establish authorities that stand
above our humanity and above our intelligence and above nature and speak down to us and tell us
what to be or think or do or see and they also want to tell us what things are, how they came to be,
what they're supposed to mean or not mean, where they came from and things like that in terms of
science. Both of these ideas are very dangerous because the frank truth, the very simple truth,
is that the source of both science and religion is the same thing. It's being alive which means
it's nature. Everything that science knows was gleaned from nature. Whatever religion may or may
not know was gleaned from reality which is nature. So in fact they're both fighting over who gets to
be the authority about the nature of authority in nature and both of them are so catastrophically
confused that they're actually destroying life on earth, humanity and our intelligence in their
constant competition for which one's on top. Now apparently the religious people or some of them
believe that God created the earth. I think that's kind of a silly idea because actually what happens
in nature is just that whatever reality may be it instances itself wildly and it's not very likely
that God sat down in the drafting board whether God was male or female or a group of things or one
thing or many or whatever God might be and decided that this would be this way and that would be that
way and thus and so. No, I don't think so. I think actually if there is a God anything like this word
which is my experience that there probably is something at least that we could associate with
this idea it's not impossible. It probably wasn't a planned thing. In other words the universe is
the expression of God's being and so too everything on earth is the expression of being-ness.
It's not the expression of blueprint. It's the same with science. Science seems to think that
there's some sort of a description and that if you just get the description right then you'll
understand the universe and reality because you'll know how all the parts work. Unfortunately the
problem with that idea is that there are no parts unless you make science which cuts up when people
do it anyway. It cuts up things into every all these little parts. There's a part of why they're
torturing all the living beings to get at all the parts and by the way just in case you're confused
about this you don't have any parts. Parts are convenience. Machines have parts. You are a whole.
You are an instance of all of time space. You're not comprised of parts except as a convenience
of talking. Now for science's purposes these conveniences are important. Let me get back
to a couple of very basic principles here. Imagine that religion wrote a book about how to be in love
and it told you all the terrible curses that would happen to you if you didn't love people in just
the exactly right way that they said you had to and they promised you all kinds of eternal
torments if you did anything different from what they said and all kinds of eternal blessings and
sort of wonderful celebrations if you did things the way that they said. Well would you believe that?
Because I wouldn't. What I would want to do is actually just go find a person that I wanted to
love or an animal or a living place and just fall madly in love and have that experience as myself
as a living being as an instance of reality of an instance of all that is. Now imagine if science
did the same thing. Imagine if they wrote a book and they told you that well love actually doesn't
exist. It's just some chemical things that happen in your brain and now that we'll show you all these
chemical things and how they work if you'll just understand all of this you won't have to worry
about any of those feelings that you have because those are just sort of epiphenomenon those are just
side effects of the mechanisms in your body. So let us tell you exactly what love is and
believe everything we tell you because we tested this very carefully and then go and do the things
that we tell you and you'll have better love. No. So here's the thing. Religion is wrong and science
is wrong and actually you yourself are a billion fold more than all the discovery science will
ever make. Remember science is something humans do and that means it's much less than what it means
to be human and religion is something that humans do and that means it's much much much less than
what it means to be human and both of them are authorities that make representations okay.
What these are are descriptions. These are made of words and numbers okay. Now that's a completely
different order of existence than beings. There's no kinds of words or numbers or descriptions or
code you can make that comes anywhere near what it's like to be a being. The difference between
words and descriptions and representations and what it is they represent would be like the difference
between drawing a sketch of a burnt matchstick in cat poo and the sun okay. That's how different
these two things are. So what you've got is a couple of cat poo sketches that want to stand above
all of reality and humanity and shout down to you about what they think it is and means.
They're absolutely confused and I want you to leave them alone and remember something very simple.
The tiniest feature of nature, one ant, a snail, a fish, a bird, a leaf, one mushroom, one grain of
sand okay. Is a billion fold, trillion fold, infinitely more astonishing, amazing and filled
with impossible intelligence and discovery than all of human science and all of human religion
will ever be. So the chances that the religion has God right? Zero. Absolutely none. Forget it.
You can study religion all you want and by the way I have I was born on Christmas. I was a catechumen
at a monastery. I've studied Zen for 30 years. I've studied Tai Chi for 20 okay. I know a lot
about Hebrew. I know a little bit about Arabic. I've studied the ancient languages. I know religion.
I have been devoutly religious in my life but I never subscribed to any system. I always chased
what religion was about rather than believing any of the little representations. As for science,
I've been absolutely fascinated with science since I was a child. I've studied science my
entire life. I've never been a scientist but I actually run and manage a scientific editing firm
where we tell other scientists how to make their arguments better and I've run and managed that firm
with a brilliant neuroscientist who can do the wildest kinds of mathematics you can imagine with
his blindfolded and we talk about incredibly deep scientific topics all the time. We deal with science
every day so I've been deeply involved in both religion and science but I've never been religious.
I'm not a Buddhist. I'm not a Christian. I've been a Christian and a Buddhist. I've never been
a Buddhist but I've been a Christian definitely for a long time and I am not a scientist but I'm
deeply deeply fascinated by both of these ways of knowing and what I want to encourage you to
understand is that as a human being you have a responsibility to your own intelligence and
your own awareness to go far past science and far past religion deeply into their sources.
Where are their sources? They are in you and me and the world. Now the representations compete in
our cultures for membership, right? They want to convert you to a member so that you will defend
and fund and pay and belong to them. Once you do that you've given up your humanity. You've given
up your divinity and in fact in many ways you may have given up your intelligence. Science is not
intelligent. Let me be very clear. Science is only as intelligent as what we do with it in the same way
that religion is only as divine as what humans do with it. Now if you can actually look carefully
at religion and see what humans do with it most of it is disgusting and horrible. It's terrifying
and wrong. The exact same thing is true of science. Scientists like to run around and tell people that
religious guys are bad because they made wars and killed people over fictional gods. Well that's
really interesting. Science as enacted by human cultures in the last 50 years has done more damage
to life on earth than it's even possible to imagine. They've poisoned every single
animalian body on earth with industrial toxins and radiation. There have been 2100 nuclear
explosions. Count that. 2100. We've had a full scale nuclear war. Every war and machine on earth
that is wiping out life on earth, the ecosystems and filling all of the domains of human experience
with noise, poison, pollution, misdirection, actually mis-programming ourselves and our
genetic basis which by the way is programmed by nature. So if you interfere with that programming
we all become stupid. We get diseases. The ecosystems crash. The dumber we get, the more
science and machines we make, it's a catastrophic nightmare. Science wants to pretend that it's
blameless because what they do is they just say well well science is up here it's just a way of
knowing we're not really responsible for what all the humans do with it. Can you imagine if
religions try to say that right? Well we're just a way of knowing we're not really responsible for
what the religious people do. We would say they were out of their minds okay. Religion is responsible
for what the people who are religious do with it. Science is the same thing. Everything that has
been done in science, science is responsible for. Scientists are not perfect beings just because
their arguments are very firm and are based on data does not mean they are true, good, reasonable
or that you should believe them. All it means is that the data that they have is fairly reliable.
That says nothing about the interpretations. That says nothing about the completeness of that data
and it says nothing about what humans will do with it and if you just take a simple look
at what humans do with science there's no more lethal way of knowing that has ever existed on
earth. In fact science at the present moment has the capacity to shut this planet off like a light
switch. Step in one instant and if we don't put a leash on science and technology right now okay
we're going to suffer consequences so catastrophic that any hell that religion ever imagined will
be exceeded by what is left of the suffering nightmare that our once gorgeously living planet
was. So here's what I would like to suggest to you. First of all these two things come from the
same place okay all the scientists were born in mysticism and mysticism was born by adoration
for nature and reality okay without any books without any stories without any experts and what
I want you to understand is that that because of my own experience and fascination with these
topics and with their sources I've had experiences so shocking that the wildest movies and science
fiction you've ever read the wildest religious stories you've ever read I've had experiences
so far beyond those but those stories aren't even interesting to me except as kind of a
anthropological curiosity. So what I want you to to really understand is something very simple
here you are more than the sum of human religions and when we are together in learning with nature
and each other we have potentials that make science look ridiculously ignorant yes science
all of science was discovered by people just like you and me who were absolutely fascinated with
reality they were not fascinated with stories and books they were not fascinated with bizarre ideas
necessarily about gods in the sky by the way religion is all about intelligences that exist
above ours and that's a really important topic that science has completely ignored because science
apparently thinks we're the only intelligent thing around here absolutely ridiculous what's
actually true is we're sitting on a mountain of non-human intelligence that has lifted us up to
this position and then we've just basically said that all that stuff isn't intelligent and then we
just started burning it down okay with science so please try to understand something astonishing
you can have an experience with a b okay with a ladybug that is more than the sum of religion
could ever deliver and more than the sum of science will ever be able to describe to you ever nature
is infinitely deep intelligence time space itself is something like pure undifferentiated
intelligence we've got completely the wrong idea about what stuff is and the reason is we've got
two insane authorities standing above us with representations right trying to convince us
that their representations are correct it's impossible it is probably true that the that
the rudimentary understandings that humans have about dna and evolution probably factual
it's also probably true that there's been some kind of a divine progression of development that
has led to the impossible beautiful world and opportunities that we have as living beings
in reality okay so both of these things have sources in nature that neither one of them is
nonsense but let me be really clear science doesn't know they have the slightest idea what evolution
means they don't know what a single cell is they have no idea what the sun is or is for or the
meaning of it if we were to encounter a species say a billion years older than us they would have
models of reality models of the identity and meaning and sort of purposive nature of reality
that are so far beyond ours that ours wouldn't even look like dung okay yet we're running around
thinking that our models are really advanced and intelligent and even you know science has
been lately telling us that our brains are computers that the universe is a computer simulation
that living beings are really just mechanisms this is schizophrenic insanity this has nothing
to do with life believe me and i work with scientists around the world who will tell you
outright just throw that idea out the window it's schizophrenic it's almost like what happens when
you have a stroke and your left hemisphere suddenly doesn't believe that that half your body exists
anymore your right hemisphere on the other hand knows you have both sides of your body
many in many cases science this schizophrenic like this is sort of very very left hemispheric
it pretends that beings and living things don't they're not really there they're actually just
side effects of mechanics that's insane and it's deadly insane and it will wipe out life on earth
if you don't like put a cap on that stuff so simply stated you are more valuable than the sum of
religion and the sum of science by all means study and examine and play with them as toys
never believe them as authorities science's models of reality are fascinating many of them very
powerful mathematics is a particularly astonishingly wonderful discipline and one of the best
actually because even though it does produce deadly technologies and helps us do that primarily
mathematics is one of the more blameless of the ways of knowing on earth what i really want you
to see is just the representations have nothing to do with it and even science's most advanced
models of of physics and reality and evolution are incredibly they're not even one percent of
what's going on not even one percent so if you take that one percent suddenly make that like
fifty or a hundred percent you've lost your mind and you've lost contact with what it means to be
a being and and what it means to have the opportunities to learn in and as reality itself
that's what you were born to be that's what we can do together that's my invitation to you
no longer shall we live under the tyrannical arguments okay of two insane authorities who
want us to believe their representations their descriptions their explanations can you explain
love i sure hope you can't because it's infinitely deep and it becomes whatever we become it changes
it goes on forever there's a billion trillion forms of it in a billion trillion moments there
will never be an explanation that can encapsulate that the same thing is true of the tiniest
phenomenon in nature no one will ever understand what an insect is because it's infinitely deep
so what i'm asking you here today is get a taste of that infinity and then you'll understand both
why we're so scared that we need to make all these stories because there's no way we can
ever really describe or understand any of this and why we're so scared that we need to tell
everyone those none of those stories can be true and instead have how should we put it highly objective
theories and hypotheses and proofs now again both of these things can be fine as long as we
don't take them too seriously science is actually a much more serious discipline but it's also far
more deadly when unguided what we most need on earth is neither science excuse me nor religion
we need to have ways to build extremely intelligent human collectives so that we will be unavailable
to the con games of religion and so that we will be able to put a leash on science and use it in
ways that are purposive enough that we might have some chance to survive them currently
we are not doing that our collectives are insane science serves those collectives those collectives
fund science and direct sciences goals and progress religion builds its own collectives within the
existing fictional collectives of our cultures and those often have agendas that are so lethal
that if they were carried out it would be endlessly catastrophic and by the way the reason that
religion is so dangerous is because science has armed them with weapons of mass destruction so
both of these things are a problem make sure they don't stand above you realize you will never be a
description whatever science knows is still highly provisional our species is incredibly young
incredibly we're just getting the slightest hint of what reality is about the religions have it
almost abjectly wrong science thinks that they're highly advanced but actually they're just getting
started and you don't want to trust them about what things are or do especially if they start
telling you that organisms or machines brains do computing the dna is a computing substrate
where the universe is a simulation absolutely impossible thank you for joining me i hope that
we'll continue to learn together feel free to get in touch with me on facebook and go way beyond human
culture because what you're going to find outside of all the paradigms all the religions and all
the science is a thousandfold more exciting than anything you've ever seen in human culture and
it belongs to you that's what you were born to be and know and live and explore and i want to go with
you i'll see you again soon thanks for joining me bye bye for now
