Before I begin today, it might be useful to know something personal about me, which is
that before I create any video or recording, I'm very nervous.
I'm frightened, actually.
And I don't know what I'm going to say.
I may know something about what I want to talk about.
But in case I sound confident or self-assured, you should realize that the actual fact isn't
like surface and I'm scared.
What am I scared of?
What is frightening me?
I mean, I'm a relatively sophisticated guy.
I've been around.
I've lived in the wilderness and culture.
I've read wildly.
I'm a musician.
I'm exposed.
I'm real.
What am I so afraid of?
I was thinking this morning of a parable and it's not a new one.
It's as if there's a man and a woman on a giant throne above us all, above life on
earth, above meaning, above identity, what things are.
And from this man and woman who, of course, are metaphoric here, emerge endless proclamations
about what is crucial, what is important, what is urgent, what is not.
What should be frightening, what is good, what is wrong, what is human.
And we are told, we are kind of, it's the right word.
We are all influenced by these proclamations whether or not we agree with them.
And there's a peculiar relationship between our species and the concept of authority that
we're not looking at and we need to look very closely at this together for a long time.
We respond as though an extrinsic authority is absolutely necessary and there's a reason
why we're doing that.
There's something about our species that is highly oriented toward the perception, projection,
perception, simulation, adulation of authority.
So much so that almost anyone can be hypnotized just by relating with various kinds of authority
and ear sats, authorities, things they look up to.
Now the weird thing about the man and the woman in our model is that they are not real.
And their proclamations are fictions, their ideas.
And these proclamations comprise our language, our basis of knowledge.
They comprise our relationship, our intelligible relationship with identity, what things are,
with meaning.
And it's really difficult to understand for someone who's never been free of these proclamations
even for a moment that reality is nothing like them, our humanity is nothing like them.
And some of us sort of detect this fact and kind of stand around with the rabble yelling
up toward the fictional authorities that stand over every moment of our lives, every aspect
of our lives, every moment of our minds, every moment of each other, every moment of the world,
every moment of experience, thought, these God-like figures dominate.
And tyrannically tell us what to see, what we should become, what is normal, what is
good, true, human, alive, intelligent, etc.
When every single one of their proclamations is fake because it's not forged from intelligence,
it's not forged from authenticity, it's not forged from mutuality.
It's not forged for purposes any of us will trust ever, even one time.
And this is where things get interesting because these standing authorities, these sort of
God-like figures that exist in every domain of our lives and thought and hearts, projecting
a tyrannical structure that often becomes more inescapable, the more adept we become
with language, knowledge, ideas, strangely, as if the structure itself evinces this principle,
the structure of what I'll call representational knowledge.
But there's a linchpin here, and the linchpin is purpose.
The God-like authorities in our model represent the standing bodies of mutuality and purpose,
but their counterfeit, we've got fake ones, and it's been this way for thousands of years.
It's as if we, in not knowing how to assemble together, true purposes, to assemble together
for true purposes, to discover those purposes and correct them and refine them, and make
them beautiful and human and alive and natural, organic.
In the absence of this necessity and fascination, we sort of helplessly, these domineering
gods emerge in the absence of our active seeking of unity, mutuality, true relation with nature,
knowledge, intelligence, each other, humanity.
And so in every case, the they that we might think of like they do this, they conspire,
they made the war, they wiped us out, they killed those people, the they is always the
standing body of the absence of a true and mutual we.
And that fills up with human bodies that become the vehicle of the inaction of all these fictional
days and our lives and world and minds are to be destroyed by this just as they have
always been.
This is not progress.
We have to be able to rise together above our representations and look down upon them.
We need to over stand the ideals and their sources that we've too long stood beneath.
And we need to be able to see into the processes whereby we are blinded and deprived and destroyed
by the very aspects of our potential that we imagine to be our greatest powers, hopes,
dreams.
Somehow our species has become fundamentally confused and inescapably so, so that we endlessly
place these domineering authorities above the basis of our unity, our humanity, our
intelligence together.
And as we can learn to see into this process, just as we began to as children, we can do
something else because it will never do to stand yelling up, to stand beneath these authorities
yelling up in criticism as if they were affected by that.
In fact, that usually merely strengthens the situation.
The only obvious option is to establish something together, to walk together beyond them, above
them and establish something human, true, heuristic, self-educating and intelligent.
A place from which we can explore and be protected from this.
When we forge true purposes and then come together for these purposes, then we have the opportunity
to experience something resembling the true nature of our humanity when we're doing something
else.
Inevitably we're going to get something else and unfortunately those something else's become
very aggressively self-organizing in our cultures.
People join them, become them, our minds become them.
We produce them in technologies and the absence of true relational activity on earth in war
and omnicidal relations with ecologies.
These are the results of serving fictional authorities who stand either in the place
of God's or God's once stood or as the modern versions of what God's are, both.
We need to stand above.
We need to find a true place above the authorities that dominate why we come together, the nature
of our collective interests and rewards.
We need to look very carefully into these matters in every facet of our lives from the
personal to the filial, you know, our families to our communities and every form of collective
that we have, all of them are founded almost purely on fictions.
And where they're not founded on fictions, those fictions quickly intrude, co-opt and
transform them into organs of their, you know, propagation and continuance.
Let's see past the married gods that stand above our minds in language, knowledge, idea,
culture, society, thought, media.
Let's clear our eyes together and see again with the intelligence that lived in the promise
of our childhood and that still remains alive in the promise of our mutuality under the
ages of purposes true, noble, human and intelligent.
