Hi, my name is Darren Stevenson. You're probably watching my YouTube channel. If you want to
look me up, you can find me under that name in San Francisco on Facebook. I also have
a blog at wondercloud.wordpress.com. I'm going to be talking today about a subject that I
feel very intensely about, and it's something that has been really confusing and tormenting
for me throughout my life. It is fundamentally the relationship of my species and what we
think and do to other ecologies in animals and creatures on earth. Today in Japan, it
is January 19th, 2014. Atrocities have been taking place against dolphin pods. Most days
around the world, cetacean pods, which are highly advanced intelligences, are being
tortured or murdered or poisoned by my people. And by my people, I mean human beings. I don't
necessarily mean people that I agree with or feel any connection with other than the fact
that we are the same species. Since I was very small, I had a very different experience
of other living beings, an experience not much like what other people describe or appear
to have, although we all share an intuitive sense of what it means to be alive. I'd like
to try today to say some things that are very difficult to frame in words, but are very
important to frame. And fundamentally, they revolve around the necessity of the immediate
and active intervention in any situation where a human collective is obliterating an ecology,
torturing animals or other living beings, human or otherwise, or converting living places
or beings or human beings into fictional benefits, wealth, money, power, etc. So I'm going to
begin by trying to sort of redefine a little bit what it means to be alive and also what
it means to be intelligent and what it means to be human. The first thing I want to talk
about is that we've got the wrong idea about what it means to be an organism. What I think
we need, we usually think of an animal as a kind, so that's a dog, there's a cat, I'm a human,
and we are separate animals, we think, which is not true. And we also think that there's some kind
of a hierarchy of importance so that a dog is less important and a human is more important,
also not true. There is no abstract measure and there is no law in nature. Laws are fictions
made up by usually very confused human collectives. Nature is something we don't understand yet at
all. We have no idea really what an animal is. We're very confused in general about what a human
being is or might be or become. And we have no idea what a living plant is. And this is very
obvious, you just look at what we do and say, it'll be immediately clear. We also have the wrong
idea about how old things are. Let me explain that really quickly. I've said this many times
before, but if you spend one human being around the sun one time, you get one human solar year,
that's an abstract measure of time. That's not the best measure. But one of the things we forgot
is that if you spend 7 billion of human beings around the sun one time, which is what happens in
one year now, you get 7 billion human life years, which is more life years than the age of the earth,
which we think is only 4.3 billion years. So actually, in one year, our human population
experiences more time than the entire history of earth as we are ordinarily told of its age. What
this means is that organisms are a kind of time complexification asset. And we do things with
time similar to what stars do with energy. We make various forms of time, and since each of us
is actually comprised of trillions of cells that live at a different rate, even one of those going
around the sun one time is much more than one year. What that means is that the age of life on earth
is unthinkably older than any number we could ever come up with. We will never develop a formula
capable of understanding it. There's more relational time here on earth than the biggest
collections of computational numbers we've ever imagined. And we are the living vessels of that,
those relationships and expressions. Another thing I want to make really clear is that
probably the most important asset on earth is ecologies. We don't really see them because
they don't look like animals, but they're super animals. They are the living places where countless
trillions of relationships are woven together to produce forms of abundance that emerge as evolution,
human beings, intelligence, and all the things that life on earth and my own speech and breathing
depend upon in this moment. There is no separate organism on earth. Earth is like a single cell.
Fundamentally, we've got one transcendent meta animal here, a super animal.
The way that this organism is organized is very peculiar. It is a unity that exists
in many orders of distributed participants, but they're not really parts. Each of those is an
expression of the whole in such a way that your own mind and body are intimately involved with
every organism on earth. They arise out of those organisms moment to moment, not in a cause and
effect way like we ordinarily imagine. What that means is that any damage to any ecology is the
most fundamentally egregious damage imaginable. It damages every living being on earth. It stains
the history of life on earth and it poisons the future in ways that become explosively more costly
as they expand over time. Humans tend to burn down ecologies. They don't pay any attention to them
whatsoever except as a fictional idea. The fictional collectives that burn down the ecologies,
which are formed of human beings, do so for reasons of power, wealth, self-aggrandizement,
sport, or just gross misunderstanding. But there's something really unthinkable happening when we allow
human collectives with fictional goals and fictional purposes, often these are corporations,
to assault, torture, murder, rape, or destroy other living beings or places. What happens is
firstly our humanity is falsified to us because we know and see those beings as extensions of our
own people and their acts reflect back to us on what it means to be human. So they're falsifying
what it means to be human in such a terrifying way that we will probably have to lie to ourselves a
bunch just to survive the emotions that we would normally and naturally have about that.
Humans are not separate from other animals. We're trained to believe that we have a brain in our
heads and that that's how we experience the world. There's some truth in that but it's incomplete
because the brain that we have is actually evolved to participate directly in the minds
and relationships of living places and other beings. And this is why when humans see other
beings murdered or tortured or destroyed, they feel very powerful feelings. It's not merely
because you have certain neurons that they call mirror neurons that allow you to simulate what
it might be like to be something else. No. In fact, what happens is that our mind is so profound
and we're so confused about what it does that it's a vessel of participation in the direct
experience of other beings. And if we were allowed and given ideas that encouraged us to have that
experience, we would all have that experience all the time. I know that because I have this
experience all the time. I can participate directly in the other minds of living beings and places
and have experience and knowledge from those beings in places as if it were my own.
When we are given models of animals and minds that are incorrect, these abilities simply don't
develop. They become stunted or inhibited. We can then react to that in a variety of ways that are
generally unhealthy and almost all of which are crippling. Today in Japan, they've been torturing
dolphin pods and they specifically took an albino child from its mother.
And those two animals will probably die, but if they don't, they're going to be incredibly
tormented by what our species is doing. That's a stain on all of humanity. When children
learn about what human beings do, it informs what it means to be human for those children,
for the rest of their lives. And they can't escape the memory and the image in the same way that we
cannot escape what we know of human history, all of what we learn about what humans do to each other,
to living places, to animals. It informs the meaning of how we feel about our own humanity.
No collective has the right to assault us, to destroy and falsify the meaning of our
intelligence and our humanity that way. No human collective has the right to obliterate nature,
to burn down ecologies that are older than the numbers that we use to talk about the age of
the universe. Especially for extremely, how should we put it, fake, phony benefits that aren't even
benefits. What we do is we hide all the damage and then we come up with a few dollars and say
we've made a profit. When in fact we've burned down what it means to be human, our intelligence,
our health and the future of life on earth, that's not a profit, that's atrocity. I want to be really
clear that most of the human collectives that do these things, whether they are scientific,
commerce based corporations, zoos, hunters, people that just have the ability to do it as sport or
want to. When we see another human being put a bullet into an animal and that animal falls down
dead, we know that a crime has been committed and whether we're able to speak clearly about it or not,
our hearts are damaged by that experience and our minds and intelligence, what it means to be human,
what it can mean to be human, is deeply injured by that. We have as people outside of all human
culture and all human law, we have the authorization and the responsibility and in many cases the
obligation to respond directly to these collectives with unstoppable force. What I mean is we have
the right to either forcibly redirect them to act intelligently or to destroy them.
And because we are trained to be good citizens and to believe that we have to participate in this
ridiculous nightmare that we're calling civilization, we are unfortunately disempowered
and we feel that we should petition murderers to stop murdering our humanity and our intelligence
and our health. That's ridiculous. You don't petition murderers, you stop them physically,
you intervene forcibly if necessary. Now the most important things that we can do do not involve
direct violence or force, they involve recovering human intelligence, integrity, relational and
purpose of understanding and the ability to act in authentic, sincere human collectives,
which we have very, very few of those because all of our collectives are poisoned by their
participation in false groups, ideas, civilizations and religions, scientific paradigms, etc.
So because most of our groups are based on fictions and almost none of them are based
on intimate relation with the history of life on earth, the living ecologies from which our
own minds and bodies arise, the future of life on earth and the necessities of our health and
humanity, since none of our collections are based on that, we have a very difficult time
assembling anything that's even vaguely authentic. We need to change that immediately because we
will not survive, nothing will survive the incredible ferocity of the fictional collectives
we've currently assembled and serve and participate in. And one of the things I really
want to make clear is that your own body is not separate from the earth. So if you imagine a
circle of all of the, I'm going to start really tiny, all of the fungal cultures, all of the viral
cultures, then all of the bacterial cultures, then all of the ecosystems, then all of the animals,
then all of the human relationships, and you put like one person at the top of that, that's you,
that's your body underneath you, and it's also your mind. You're not separate from those things,
there's only one planet here, there's no way to be separate. But we have our unique modes of
distinction that become intelligence when they relate across that gap, just like in our minds,
okay, in our brains. We have neurons that appear separate, and we become intelligent when that
forest of neurons is relating across all of those gaps. They're not really separate, see, they are
you, you are one, and the earth is similar. She is a unity that is embodied in many orders of
distinct organisms, but they are all basically one being. And we emerge out of that, and we
dissolve back into it, and we emerge out and dissolve back in. You have the capacity to draw on,
direct, learn from, and relate with that entire symmetry of life, which includes the entire history
of life on earth, and in many ways touches many aspects of the future of all of life on earth.
When human collectives organized for the purposes of profit, power, war, lies,
fictions, or self aggrandizement, burn down the ecologies, they're actually burning down your
mind and body right now in real time. They are also placing an irrevocable stain on the meaning
of humanity that no one is authorized to do. There's no way that those people have any kind of thing
like a right to do that. And they are stealing the authorization of our humanity and employing it
to propagate atrocity that is really unthinkably wrong minded, vicious, cruel, and lethally poisonous.
So what I want to be really clear about is every animal has the right, not the right.
What is the word? The mandate of being, to actively interfere whenever any other creature is being
tortured or killed or lied about or caged, inhibited, crushed in any way abused. We have
the natural authorization just as living beings to forcibly intervene and to put an absolute
stop to that by any means necessary really. Now hopefully we can use the most intelligent and
graceful means, the means with the most finesse. But in situations where, especially at this late
date, we're in a very, very important period of the Earth's history where the remaining ecologies,
all of them are poisoned, all of them, and they're being destroyed. And that means that the future
of life on Earth is in grave danger, and that all of our evolutionary partners were burning
them down. So they lifted us up to the top of the order of light, the orders of life on Earth.
We got representational intelligence, we got hands, this is the most amazing evolutionary advance,
basically our planet ever came up with. And we're using it to just wipe out everything that lifted
us up. This is a moment where every action that we make and every thought and intelligent gesture
has a thousand times the effect it ordinarily would. Similarly, every moment that we remain passive,
ignorant, willing to be spectators, consumers, willing to just kind of watch from the sidelines
or complain, those actions have a thousandfold the effect that they otherwise would on a planet that
was in relative balance. So right now we've tipped the balance so far toward extinction
that we have two really important opportunities. The first is if we continue, those acts have
many thousands of times the effects that they ordinarily would. The second is anytime we can
stop or actually change to an intelligent action, we get explosive benefit out of that.
I want to appeal to you to stop being spectators. And I specifically want to ask you to stop copying
images on the internet because that action actually wipes out ecologies and has zero effect,
that is not activism. Okay, activism is when we go in action together, we learn very intelligent
new ways of being human together that allow us to diffuse the false collectives, to inhibit
their ability to overwhelm or dominate our world and our minds or our lives, our nations,
our ecologies that belong to each living being on earth and to no one else because they can never
be owned or purchased. So I want to encourage every person who's listening to this to step
outside of human culture completely to recover the animal that you are and the intelligence,
the responsibilities, the obligations and the benefits that come with
our human nature, which is nothing like what our cultures are selling us and tarring us with.
When I was a child, I had to watch men bashing baby seals apart with clubs to get their skins to
make money. And that me and some of the other children who saw that were so outraged that we
went out in the playground, I think we were nine or 10 years old and we decided that we would all
work really hard to become wealthy so that we could build an army.
And that with this army, we would go
and stop them. Now, we were a little naive and we were sold the models of humanity that are,
you know, the toxic commonplace models that we have today. We have so many
abilities and powers we've never discovered because we're engaged in this bizarre,
nonsensical situation of ideologies, a circle of ideologies, all of which are fictional,
all of which are asserted from science to religion to what we call activism. It's nonsense. I mean,
very, very little of it is much connected with nature ecology or even each other.
So especially the formalized aspects that we sell in books and lectures and gurus and revolutionaries,
once you become sort of, once the culture has a hold of you, it's going to make you its animal,
that's the problem. And so I want to ask you to step outside of culture, recover your animalian
nature, recover your animalian intelligence, recover the mandates and authorization to act in
defense of other living beings, yourself and your own intelligence now, while there's still
some hope of that. Because if you follow the crowds, what you're going to end up doing when you
copy memes, when you take millions of photographs, when you think that copying news items that have
no effect but to support the causes they claim to be opposing, you're actually doing the opposite
of activism. And because that's your activism moment, your kind of the cost is just going to
explode over time, you're going to become more ignorant and less effective with every move.
All of your friends with whom you do this with are going to copy your behaviors.
When we copy images on the internet, that actually burns down ecologies.
So memes are not a method of activism. We either form intelligent active collectives
that accomplish and learn together very rapidly how to oppose and turn these situations over
into something more like insight, the ability to grow and learn together, to preserve our ecologies
and even benefit them, to contact them, to contact each other ourselves, our intelligence,
our actual potentials and opportunities, none of which really are being even seen yet, trust me,
we're about to see some very new ones. One of the problems that I want to mention before I go is
just that our technology has wiped out our intelligence, the evolution of our intelligence,
right? We've been pumping our evolutionary momentum into building machines, which means
we're not evolving. We don't have any idea what we could become because what we've become
are the servants and makers of machines. That's burning us down. The most important
message I think I can communicate here today, I'm going to try again, this is really just a first
effort, is this. The ecologies are the most important asset on earth, and they are your body
and mind. When you learn how to touch them with your mind, you're going to have experiences so
shocking, so unthinkably beautiful and so astoundingly educational, that you're going to forget about
pretty much everything human culture ever had to say. Until you've had that experience, I'd like you
to suspend the idea that you know what it means to be human. And I want to make one of the things
really, really clear. Other animals are your body. They are your mind. Ecologies are your body and
mind. They're not distinct from you. They're not luxuries. They're not things you visit
so that you can have a little relief from the machine noise and servitude in which you're
buried. If we don't defend them right now, with all due force and intelligence, we will soon be too
stupid to have that opportunity, too sick, too broken, and too inhuman. Now on the plus side,
for anyone who wants to actually accept the challenge of leaving human culture and becoming an
agent, intelligence of nature, you're going to discover allies and assets unlike anything I intend
to describe to you, far beyond the wildest visions of religion, way beyond the most fantastical stories
of fantasy and science fiction. That is your birthright. That is your nature. If you want to
taste that, get in touch with me personally, and I will give you a taste instantly that will so
overwhelm you that you will forget about every guru, drug, revolution, or book you ever read,
because what you will find inside your own body, mind, and potential is a thousand fold beyond
anything you can find in human culture. Let's recover that together with and for each other,
the history of life on earth, the promise of the future of life on earth, and the rescue of the
living beings who right now are depending on us to intervene in every possible way in their abuse,
obliteration, and destruction. In this, I am your ally, and trust me, I am a stronger ally than
anything you have ever encountered. Get in touch. Let's change this planet now. Thanks.
