Hi, my name is Darren Stevenson. I'm probably watching my YouTube channel. You
can find me on Facebook as the Darren Stevenson in San Francisco. I have a
blog at wondercloud.wordpress.com and I also have a website called organelle.org.
I'd like to talk to you today about a revolutionary technology that I've been
working on for about six months now. Essentially the goal of the technology
is to give to ordinary people the ability to use electronic information in
entirely new ways together, ways so radical that they will actually develop
new forms of human intelligence and new roles for everyone who uses it. I'm
calling the idea the knowledge amp because what it does is effectively it
collectively magnifies the intelligence of human users who touch data on the
internet. Presently the way that we use the internet is pretty backwards. What
happens is there's swarms of information. None of it is valued in terms of its
accuracy or dependability and a lot of it is copied. I don't know what the exact
percentage is but vast amounts of the information that we see on the internet
are basically just copied. A lot of it's very poor quality, a lot of it is just
false. There's an incredible amount of propaganda from false collectives, false
forms of intelligence and basically just outright lies and we have no way to kind
of tell the difference between any of this stuff or to interact with it very
intelligently. What we do currently is when we interact on the internet that
builds new forms of intelligence for corporations like Facebook, Twitter,
Google and YouTube. What I want to do is turn that around so that when we interact
with each other and with data on the internet it builds new forms of
intelligence for us, not for them and then if they want some of that
intelligence they can rent or purchase it from us instead of fleecing us of the
intelligence we generate by our activity and then selling us back tiny little
pieces of that that make them lots of profit and don't make us more
intelligent. Let me explain the difference between what I'm thinking about and
what we're doing presently. We're about 20 years into the birth of the
internet and in internet time which is accelerated that's more like about
300 years. The really weird thing about that is that 20 years in we are using a
flat browser to access the internet in a way that is essentially like a
dictionary except it's worse because the search engines organize the results
based on popularity. Anyone who understands intelligence and rhetoric
realizes that popularity is no kind of measure of the value of data and in
fact it can be grossly misleading. Additionally when corporations are the
people who tell us which data is important and which isn't what we end up
with is an incredibly skewed base from which to to get data and to look for
results. I want to change all that in the most radical and shocking way that I
think you're going to find very exciting. So here's what we're going to do
instead. First of all we're going to change the browser so that it works more
like our minds. Our minds do not work like a dictionary. When you want to
think or dream or create you don't get an idea in your head do a search and then
get a flat series of results in a list. When you do that because our because the
internet is a metaphor for our minds when we do it this way we're actually
damaging our intelligence. We're retraining it to work in a way that's
nothing like nature. Nothing like our minds. Nothing like memory or our
intellects. And by the way it's very important here to understand that memory
is nothing like storage. If it were we wouldn't dream and the interesting
thing about our dreaming is that if we don't dream we don't learn. Not only
not only do we not learn if we don't dream we die. Our bodies stop being able
to regulate their homeostatic metabolism and we will just perish of this. So the
internet has been retraining us in very cruel and kind of crippling ways to
depend upon mechanical algorithms, mechanical processes, mechanical
functions that actually not just limit our intelligence they attack it and
replace it remake it in the forms that have nothing to do with what our
actual capacities are. How would we turn this around? Well the way that we can do
that is really exciting. Let me explain a little bit. Firstly we're going to
build an entirely new kind of browser. Actually I'm going to back up a little
bit. Before I get to the browser I want to talk about a very specific and
interesting feature of our current electronic situation. That feature is
surveillance. Most of us realize that Facebook, Google and then intelligence
agencies like the NSA and those of other governments are surveilling us
constantly and their purposes in surveilling us are not to make us more
intelligent or to give us new assets that we can really use beneficially.
Mostly they are to give them new kinds of intelligence new assets that they can
use to figure out how to sell us stuff or in the case of the government how to
pre-prosecute us which is a terrifying idea. Let me talk a little bit about the
power of surveillance. It sounds like a really scary word and nobody really
wants to be recorded. Right now what's going on is that everything we do on the
internet from our emails and our private conversations, our video calls, all of the
activity that we do, our searches and what we choose and like and share, all
that's being recorded and abstracted into ways to link us into networks that
tell people how to sell us things better, what we're interested in and also how to
manipulate us really easily. We need to reverse that trend. Now here's the
exciting part of this idea. Although the idea of surveillance sounds frightening
and it is because frankly we can't survive recording all of what humans do,
that creates huge waves of data that have to be recorded, backed up, analyzed
and etc. That's just not going to work. We have to compete against that data. In
other words the United States government will preserve the data that the NSA has
on you before they will preserve you, your family or your life. You will have to
pay to get health care but they pay to preserve your data including that
health care data. See how dangerous that is? What that means is that we're
actually being converted to resources, to data objects and we have to compete
against those for survival and we will lose. We're already losing even now. I'm
talking about the future. I'm talking about right now. We've got to reverse this
trend and one of the ways that we can do that is by understanding how surveillance
works better. If anyone's ever seen a child in their room, especially a child
who is struggling to learn language, what you're going to notice is some
astonishing phenomenon. The children set up essentially a surveillance
environment. Now of course the home is a surveillance environment. The parents
surveil the children. The children are aware of this surveillance. The parents,
the mode of surveillance of the parents is loving, encouraging, it's learning
oriented and it's protective. So what we have there is a surveillance
environment where there are a lot of positive inputs and the surveillance
produces actually minds. Our minds are born in a sort of relational milieu
where above us there are these kinds of God-like beings, the parents and our
families. Around us there are friends and peers and children of our own age but
we also have often these very strange aspects called imaginary friends. What's
interesting about this is that minds have a lot to do with surveillance. When you
do something you think about well what will my friends think of this or what
my culture think of this, that's a kind of self-imposed simulated surveillance.
So much of our intelligence actually has to do with astonishing forms of
surveillance that we don't get to experience ordinarily in our
relationships with with electronic technology but we should. Of course we
do get a little bit because our friends see like what we post and we think about
like what will my friends think if I post this stuff like that. That's again a
kind of simulated self-surveillance. So what I get out here is that surveillance
is an asset that we can use to build new forms of intelligence, new minds, new
ways of relating with each other, with problems that we face as human persons
and cultures, with some of the problems that our species faces in terms of
dealing with our relationships with technology and nature. Surveillance is
an astonishingly powerful asset and it's been completely misused against us.
Now what happens when you establish a bunch of false authorities like the NSA,
Google and Facebook is that that actually affects the structure and
development of our minds, our relationships and our intelligence. What
that means is that we will get damaged minds especially when we know that
there are surveillance authorities that want to prosecute us watching our
every move. That actually will produce a kind of a schizophrenic situation, a
very dangerous situation in which we begin to form minds in the likenesses of
our expectations of prosecution, our expectations of being constantly
observed. We can't be human in that milieu. We've got to do something
different than that. So there's another form of surveillance that you're
probably very familiar with and that is the kind that happens in little
tightly knit teams that have a very important goal that they all care a lot
about or maybe even practice producing. One simple example of that is a
sports team. A sports team is an intimately linked together pod-like
intelligence where all the members are constantly in incredibly close
surveillance and attention and mutual super function. In other words they go
beyond the normal function available to ordinary people into a domain of
incredible ability and almost divine seeming powers of perception, action
and accomplishment. What I want to do is give us that same kind of ability, that
same species of ability but within for each other to build new forms of
intelligence and to solve actual problems in the world instead of get
scores on scoreboards and win money. We can do this very easily actually. So the
idea that I have will first of all give us a new way of browsing and secondly it
will build some assets that belong to us both personally and communally not to
corporations. These assets will be assembled by and for us for purposes
that we believe in that are authentic to our humanity that help to protect each
other from various kinds of false collectives, false authorities, people who
want us to believe things that aren't true, who want to convert us to resources
that they can use for ensuring their dominance, their reproduction, things
like Monsanto, Google, Facebook. These are false collectives that do not exist in
our interest. They exist in the interest of generating profits for shareholders,
their fictions. When they convert us to resources we become fictional people. When
corporations assault the environment and wipe out the history, the historical
sort of assets of life on earth, our own minds and futures are destroyed and our
humanity is stained because we know intrinsically the value of nature. And when
we see it wiped out and turned into abstractions in bank accounts, what's
going on is we're being wiped out, the future is being destroyed and it's all
for the purpose of a big network of lies essentially. We can reverse that and
here's how we can do it. Firstly we're going to build a browser unlike anything
anyone's ever seen. What it's going to do is it's going to learn how we learn and
it's going to do that for each one of us but also communally in an extensible
array of networked relationships. Firstly you'll have your personal aspect. These
are the things that only you know and that are only known about you by you and
then outside of that you'll have stuff that you will allow friends and
family, very close people to know and then outside of that a more closely knit
social network and then outside of that the community as a whole. It'll have
each of these kinds of scales of privacy built in to the intelligence unit that
drives this process. The browser itself, I'll come back to that in a minute and
explain it more carefully. We're going to have to compete a little bit with some
traffic because it's early morning here. The browser itself is going to work
completely different from what we're currently using. The way that our minds
work is nothing like how we think. They work very creatively so that when we have
an idea it gets connotated. It gets surrounded by all kinds of connotations,
memories, feelings, pieces of dreams, art we have encountered, stories we have
encountered, myths, religious ideas, belief systems. When we have an idea it's a
radical network of things. It's not a word that links to a list. It was never
like that. So what we're going to do is we're going to build a browser that works
a little more like our minds and here's how it will look. On one side you'll have
a spinnable wheel that will have image-based data that is related to
whatever you've typed in your search box. On the other side you'll have a
spinnable wheel that will have text-based data that will similarly
relate to things in the text box. Underneath that you'll have data that
both enhances and opposes and also connects both of those kinds of data
into a small constellation like object that sits underneath your search box
that you can modulate so that you can bring certain features into prominence
or reduce them into the background and you can also travel into it by picking
one of those or a set of them and replacing this current search term
with that. That will give us the ability to travel into ideas and to explore in
astonishing ways that are more like metaphors. Metaphors are actually the
sort of closer to the basis of human intelligence than definitions. What we're
currently using are systems that are based on definitions. That doesn't work.
It does allow us to use the internet like a dictionary. It doesn't allow us to
relate with information the way our minds do. So what we're going to do is
we're going to build this browser that gives us this incredible way to sort of
creatively spin, reconnect, recontinate, and constolate all kinds of
information that's related to and even opposing whatever we type in. We'll still
be able to get flat results if we want but we're going to have a knowledge
adventure every time we interact with any kind of information. Above the search
bar we'll have some linguistic analysis of what we've typed in on the left side
maybe and excitingly on the right side every time we type in words we'll see
the etymological history, how these words were made, what they come
from, what meanings in original languages were, and we'll be able to determine
which languages we see the etymology for. What that means is that every time we
use language we will begin to learn about language like a linguist or a
forensic expert but we won't have to study it. It'll happen just by
interacting with our browser. Meanwhile we'll learn how to produce metaphor-like
relationships with knowledge instead of definition-like. I mean the difference
between a definition and a metaphor is shocking. A definition is really just like
a flat thing you get out of a dictionary. A metaphor is a growing constellation of
related ideas, images, possibilities, conflicting ideas, concepts, historical
data, speculative data about the future. When we can begin to interact with the
internet in a metaphoric framework our intelligence is going to radically change
and it will enhance, nourish, and grow our intelligence instead of limiting and
inhibiting it. So the first part of the knowledge amp is the new browser paradigm
and I can show you some models of that later but what's really important is
underneath that. Underneath that we have some assets that are incredible that
are nothing like we possess now. The first one of them is a personal
intelligence amplifier. Essentially what it does is it learns everything you do.
It learns your interests, it watches what you type, it knows your own typing style,
it knows your vocal style, it will learn and observe you forensically but not
for the purposes of helping authorities prosecute you. For the purposes of
helping you to enhance your own intelligence. In other words, what it
learns about you will feed into the browser and help you fill those
connotative aspects that surround your search terms and it will do that ever
more intelligently each time you use it. Now that's pretty exciting by itself but
there's something even more exciting which is that as this asset grows it
becomes incredibly valuable and again it'll have a personal, what is the right
word here? A personal element, a closely knit element for people who are close to
you and your family and friends, very close friends and then a close social
network element and then a communal element. All of these will inform and
teach each other and the social network and communal elements will be shared
right so that they can, we will actually learn from other people learning. Each one
of these will give us a personal intelligence assistant that is unique
to our own minds, also our own families and friends, but it will also help us
build extended kinds of intelligence that are wide ranging, rapidly self-correcting
and re-informing and shared amongst everyone who uses the internet. Currently
we have nothing like that. The power of this one little personal, personal
intelligence storage device and development device is unthinkable. What
will happen over a few years is that this will become so valuable that
basically corporations will rent time touching just the aspects that you'll
allow them to see in order to build their own versions of lesser intelligence
that they can use for the purposes they use. Meanwhile this will serve only the
purposes that interest us and will give us powers of sensing, understanding and
analyzing information that no one, no ordinary person normally has. In other
words we will get forensic intelligence. We'll be able to examine our own text and
learn all kinds of things about how we write, how we could write differently.
We'll be able to examine our own communications and learn all kinds of
things about that. We'll develop new ways of learning by linking these little
intelligence artifacts together. They are built from surveillance and they
surveil us for purposes that agree with our own goals, creativity, education,
protection, democracy and intelligence instead of feeding corporations who
build comparatively incredibly crude analogs of this that are used primarily
just to sell us stuff. So the personal intelligence asset will be built by
watching what we do with data. When we write emails, when we type, when we speak,
when we watch videos, when we do searches, it will learn and know about our
own minds and it will also assistively help us to expand our own capacities
every time we do anything. So that's one of the underlying elements. Another one
is we will do our own social networking. No one else will control that. We will get
all of the data that is available from our social interactions and
the networks that we form instead of corporations getting it. We will be able
to benefit from that data and use it in ways that benefit us, our intelligence
and our ability to reach out and form communities that are powerful and that
can change the world, that can actually address the problems that many of the
problems and challenges that we face. The third aspect is really amazing. It's
what I call the bedding sentinel. What this will do is allow us to radically,
forensically analyze any piece of data on the internet, a political speech, a
video, an image, any kind of writing, any kind of meme and we will be able to learn
all kinds of amazing things about those objects that will help us determine
whether they are trustworthy, whether they were copied, what their purposes were,
what their sources were, not just presently but in history and it will
also allow us to build a system where we value information that is intelligent
and truthful and information that is copied and mimicked or that is
basically propaganda and lies will get devalued. We will be able to look at
written information or even speeches and immediately determine that someone is
lying, that they're using a fallacy to convince us, that they're manipulating our
emotions or that they've invented some idea and are claiming that it is science
or religion or truth when actually it's just something they made up. In other
words, the vetting sentinel will act as a way to filter the internet at first but
then to actually reforge it so that what we get are more and more kinds of
really valuable truthful and trustful information, trustworthy information and
less kinds of information that mimic that, that manipulate us, that are
propaganda. We're going to out the mimics. In other words, we're going to easily be
able to see when people are lying, when they've copied something, when there's
false content involved, if it was photoshopped or changed from an actual
photograph. We're going to get all kinds of forensic data just like the CIA would
get or an intelligence organization but we'll be able to use it for our own
purposes to increase our own and we will learn these methods as we play with
them so that we're going to become like detectives except we're not going to
have to practice. It's going to happen just when we use the internet. So the
vetting sentinel is crucially important. It's going to give us the ability to act
intelligently with data and to tell when we're being manipulated. It's going to
give us the ability to sort of score trusted authorities, to build trusted
authority networks for information, images and all of the kinds of
electronic data that we currently interact with. One of the sort of the final
piece on the side, all these link together by the way, the final piece is
that we're going to be able to form teams and we're going to have heroic
identities because as we use the internet and we're going to build these
assets together with our own interactions, as we use the internet
we're going to be able to have a role. That's a different thing from a job or a
function. A role is a thing like a super hero or a sports team hero or a famous
researcher. Each time we interact with the internet we will each get credit and
our social networks and our public networks for all of the information that
we create for the new forms of intelligence that we create. And so we're
going to be able to form amazing little teams that can work together immediately
to solve problems that have been completely untouched and insolvable in our
current method of doing things. We're going to get heroic roles and we're
going to be able to have identities that aren't just a name tied to social
security number that you get taxed for. We're going to have identities that
become heroic teachers, leaders, problem solvers and members of teams that
actually radically transform human cultures that solve problems that have
been insoluble for basically since the beginning of time. And we're going to be
able to do this so fluidly and so rapidly that it's going to shock people to see
how quickly we can actually resolve problems when we're able to organize,
unify, magnify our intelligence using assets like these. Something like this
can be built in six months. We can be using the internet in such a shocking
way that it's going to be as if we're having a knowledge adventure together
that's noble, heroic and solves problems every time we use the internet. The
vetting sentinel itself, the part of the structure that helps us to
forensically analyze data, we're going to build the assets that will allow us
to create that. And so various kinds of experts will help us to examine media
so that we can see visual data that gives us clues about whether people are
telling the truth, whether they're not, whether they're nervous, whether they're
anxious, what their purposes probably are. Textual data that tells us whether
these statements are trustworthy, whether they're based on fallacies, if
they're copied from some other source, if they're not original, if they are
original and are intelligent, we're going to be able to recreate the internet
because what will happen is a value system will emerge where data that's
really intelligent and users that are creating powerful content and really
contributing will get promoted, right? And all of the people who and
corporations and false collectives that are mimicking stuff, making stuff up and
pretending it's science using scares and outrage to sell journalism and things
like this, those are going to disappear. But not only that, once we start being
able to interact with this in this way together, we're going to be able to change
our cultures overnight. Our governments won't survive this, okay? There's no way
we're going to be able to ever be crushed down and converted by false
authorities to slaves, prisoners, spectators and consumers. Now, this is a
brief taste of the powers of the knowledge. What it's for is essentially
it's an intelligence synthesizer. We're going to make the music of human
intelligence together in a way we've never been able to do in any context
we've ever experienced. And we're going to be able to do it naturally, mostly
just by talking to each other and watching and learning and reading the
things we want to learn. We're not going to have to have an extra job or
anything. This is just going to help us do this naturally by taking advantage of
all of the thousands of minds and all of the activity that we produce every
day, organizing that activity into new forms of intelligence that we can share,
that we can locally possess, control, modulate, play with, pioneer, explore and
create. When we get to play with this, you're going to see that our minds are
nothing like what we've been shown. We have the capacity to dream together in
data in ways that will produce entirely new forms of learning and
intelligence. And every child, every ordinary person, every grandmother or
grandfather will have immediate access to these features. And these
experiences are going to change what it means to have a mind. They're going to
change what it means to be a culture. They're going to give us the ability to
immediately isolate and solve problems that have remained completely untouchable
in our current systems. I hope that you're as excited as I am about this. I'm
working as hard as I can to get the original models down so that we can
begin building it. But I just wanted to give you a little bit of a taste of
what I think is in store for us. Thank you for joining me. I look forward to
learning together and to changing the nature of human intelligence, human
social relation and our ability to use the internet. We're going to rebuild the
internet in the image of the possibility of human super function, not the image
of a dictionary. Thanks for joining me. Bye bye for now.
