Hey everybody. So, yesterday I was talking about synchronization and how
important it is to everything about what it means to be a human and have a mind,
have experiences of our own intelligence or to dream, to imagine things, to create,
and how synchronization underlies all of these familiar aspects of our human
experience and how fundamentally important it is to the capacity to have
these experiences coherently. And I also spoke about what happens when the
underlying elements that we use to synchronize with become disturbed when
desynchronization occurs and how that can produce uncommon mental experience,
uncommon metabolic experience, disturb our sleep rhythms, produce unusual or
disturbing dreams.
Desynchronization is something that a lot of us are learning about right now.
First hand, and it's not the words that matter here, it's the experience of being human.
You know, when we have a conversation with each other, we establish rather naturally,
usually, and if everybody's paying attention, right, we establish a rhythm.
And right now there's a rhythm right around me of hummingbird vocalizations.
And there's a bumblebee flying around, and these plants are growing at a pace.
The sun doesn't rise and set in three minutes. If it did, that would really fuck things up.
I can't even imagine the science fiction scenario in which something like that occurs.
So we're surrounded by rhythms that are natural to our experience and to our humanity.
And whether or not we recognize all of them isn't really the point. We don't need a list or a catalog.
We're fundamentally susceptible to their disruptions.
And so when the anchors that are experiences of human synchronization, when they are suspended
or appended, when they change or become broken, most of us suffer from that.
And it's not too hard to understand why. Imagine trying to dance against three pieces of music,
none of which have rhythmic synchrony. Or just imagine trying to dance against a single piece
of music to dance to some rhythm other than the music that you're being exposed to, right?
You know, when we establish relationships, we develop habits that aren't merely in our minds.
We develop habits that become embodied.
They become visceral. We no longer have to think about what time to wake up.
Or go to sleep. Or call our loved ones. Or have a conversation or eat a meal.
Synchronization allows us the luxury of handing off some of the stuff that might otherwise have
to be consciously done to the subconscious mind, the unconscious mind, our metabolism,
the body itself, our visceral humanity. And so when the elements that orchestrate
our synchrony are disrupted,
or when they're mechanized, right, and accelerated consistently over time,
as Alvin Toffler foresaw in Future Shock, we suffer.
We become confused, disoriented, desynchronized. And when we're in
that kind of a situation, it's very difficult to
to assemble the faculties with which we might detect and respond to the desynchronization
intelligently. Because in fact, part of having faculties depends on synchronization, right?
It's like this problem of trying to see with what you see with, or trying to see what you,
trying to see that which you see with, yeah? Trying to understand that with which you understand.
I can make language right now, but I can't explain in language how it is that I'm able to make language.
Right now. And when we start to think about topics like these,
we begin to orbit one of the topics I'd hoped to include in my in my talk yesterday
on synchronization. Feedback. Recursion.
One of the most interesting examples in language, which actually represents
the collapse of two necessarily distinct orders of,
of what?
Orders of language and consciousness is the Rossellian paradox. This statement is false.
And if it's true, then it's false. And if it's false, then it's true, which means it's false,
right? Now these paradoxes were originally teaching toys. They weren't meant to remain puzzling.
They were meant somewhat like the intellectual analog, partial analog, of a Zen koan.
You chew on them like a dog chewing on a bone until finally one day it breaks, right? And you
have a breakthrough and you understand, oh, now I can see. And I can explain to you
the power of the Rossellian paradox by carefully examining its structure.
And its structure produces feedback, right? If it's true, then it's false. If it's false,
then it's true. It's true. Is it true? If you ask this question, well, it tells you it's false.
But if that's true, then it's false, right? It's, there's a feedback mechanism there going,
going on. And I believe that what we call consciousness and certainly what we experience
as dreaming profoundly involve not only crucial aspects of necessary synchronization,
they also involve and can unexpectedly
produce or evince feedback. Recursion. Now to return so that I don't lose my thread,
I'll return to the Rossellian paradox. This sentence is false, commits an error.
And I will create, when I had my breakthrough with this particular paradox,
I created a rule that preserves intelligence beyond language that demonstrates why
language cannot tell us what it means. There is no language that can tell us what it means.
We produce meaning from purposeful relation with linguistic constructs.
And you are doing that right now as you listen to my voice. And I suspect that requires much more
than you simply hearing my words. You have to reflect upon them somehow. You have to have some
purposeful relationship with not merely what I'm saying, but like the thread, right?
The context of my communication, the purposes it embodies and expresses
with your own intelligence, with your own mind, your own history. All of our experience with language
has something to do with any experience of language. So it's as if there are these orders
from the tiny, to the larger, to the really big, to the gigantic, to the universal
of feedback that are going on constantly in our experience of consciousness or awareness
or thought or creativity or dreaming. So the Rossellian paradox, when I finally had my breakthrough
with it, I created a rule. And the rule is no statement shall by self-reference or other means
collapse the two orders of language and the minds that interpret it into language.
Yeah, no statement shall do that. And that helps us understand the power of that paradox
to reveal to us that language does not tell us what it means.
Minds interpret language, meaning they're from emerges.
Now, there are so many fascinating things that we can talk about about feedback related to feedback
and human consciousness, intelligence, creativity, and there's all different kinds of feedback. So
there's the kind that you get when you present an idea or, you know, when you write a post or you
write a song or an essay or a poem. There's the kind that you get from angry drivers around you
when you make a mistake or there's the kind you get when you're these days wearing a mask or not
wearing a mask. There's that kind of feedback. But that's not really the kind I'm talking about,
even though I think it's relevant. I'm talking about the kind where a stimuli or a stimulus
recur in ways that re-include themselves.
An example of this in language would be this sentence is about the sentence I am making.
That's a one phase feedback loop where the sentence refers to itself. It breaks that rule
that I made earlier that comes from my examination of Russell's Paradox.
And essentially that examination means there shall be two orders, language and the minds that
interpret them. Any statement that pretends that there aren't two orders so that language
is the mind that interprets language is false. It's not actually, it's not false.
It's malformed. It's so badly formed as to not even be wrong. It is incoherent. It's an incoherent
statement. Now that rule is very tricky and that's not the end of what you can discover from Russell's
Paradox. It might be the beginning, but that's the key that unlocks the lock that opens the door
that leads to the stairwell that takes you to where you yourself must go in person.
Now there are experiences of producing kinds of coherent feedback.
And by the way, although the brain doesn't have wires, it has nerves and nerves aren't wires.
I want to be really clear about this. But as we understand signal propagation and transmission
in the brain, it's a multi-ordinal system of very sophisticated feedback loops that reintroduce
previously accessed sensory stimuli or signals and continually reintroduce them and process them
in ways that differ from the last time they were processed. So that a signal might,
a stimuli or a signal might, for example, take four different routes. And the next time it takes
those same four routes, but with different end results, because other circuits are included
on the second pass and so on and so forth. So what we understand of the brain's structure
in terms of nerves and signal propagation along neurons
profoundly involves feedback. And the corpus callosum, which connects and distinguishes
the two cerebral hemispheres,
when working well ensures that we don't end up with a storm of feedback
in various physical pathways that would result in an epileptic fit.
An epileptic fit is essentially a storm of feedback in the brain and the nervous system
and thus the body. Now, there's certain kinds of feedback like storms. Humans like quite a lot.
One of them we call orgasm. And I would suggest that many of the experiences that we associate
with psychedelia involve the chemically induced or modulated invocation of specific forms of feedback
or the result of inhibition in certain aspects of the brain's ordinary feedback systems
and feedback control systems that allow it to leak back into our cognitive and perceptual and
emotional experience. So feedback's really important. And I'm not going to be able to
lay the topic bare today. I just want to introduce it and to add a coda to yesterday's
video because I intended to introduce it along with synchronization. Surely you can see there's
a link between these two topics, right? The topic of synchronization and the topic of feedback.
We would understand this immediately if we were studying something like computational neuroscience
or cognitive neuroscience because we would see that when you desynchronize certain brain
activities, signal propagation methods or paths, you get radical, intense,
sometimes problematical, sometimes beautiful results. And this is a factor in our dreaming
experience that in hypnogogia, which is between waking and sleeping, if we become aware in that
phase state, we can have experiences of feedback in consciousness. And in what we might refer to
as disembodied consciousness because our bodies are usually paralyzed once we fall asleep or
when we begin to dream. And also in hypnopompic experience, which is the gap between sleep,
dream and waking, again, if we are conscious within that experience, we are very likely to
encounter the effects of feedback. And in consciousness, feedback is profoundly unusual.
The direct experience of feedback, the ordinary experiences of feedback
that we're familiar with feel perfectly familiar.
That I see the terrain around me and understand it as real, it actually requires feedback to
happen. But the kinds of feedback that we're not used to, the kinds that happen in what we refer
to as mental disturbances, orientation disturbances, when we become sick, or we have an unusual
dreaming experience, or we have a psychotic break, or we have a sudden unexpected experience of
prodigy that is demonstrable, or we have the ghost of that, we have mania. These all involve feedback.
And although I cannot tell you exactly how each of these experiences involve feedback,
it's very important to have a kind of a personal familiarity with the fingerprint
of feedback phenomenon, right? Now, guitarists learn about this because they eventually electric
guitarists, they realize they can take the magnetic pickups in their guitar, and they can
make a sound and then move the pickup closer and closer to the speaker that is outputting the input
from the guitar. And pretty soon this creates a feedback loop and the guitar begins to screen,
yeah, in a way, or the feedback loop produces this incredibly richly harmonic high-pitched tone.
Similarly, you can point a video camera at a screen that is outputting what the video camera
is receiving, and you'll get this like extremely profound endless hall of mirrors effect, yeah.
Now, those are mechanical instances of feedback,
but what I'm talking about are both cognitive and relational instances of feedback.
And in case it isn't clear, the thing that attracts humans that makes them
want to have sex with each other is an experience of feedback.
What humans refer to as intercourse is a fundamentally profound layered array of
feedback mechanisms, physical, emotional, imaginal, romantic, cognitive even.
So in case you think like feedback something, you know, that just kind of happens only in
machines or whatever, boy would you have that backwards. The fact that you can be conscious
at all is fundamentally dependent on feedback. And when there are desynchronizing inputs or
when the inputs that ordinarily synchronize the kinds of feedback that we are familiar with,
when those either change or are disturbed or disappear or are replaced by something else
like machines, then the kinds of feedback that we are capable of experiencing transform
dramatically. And it's extremely difficult to control these things intentionally. In other words,
we are primarily subject to feedback in the ways that we as humans experience it.
And although we can learn to modify our behaviors and habits in ways that transform
some of the elements of synchronization that we are linked up with.
So it's ironic I'm suffering right now.
From the lack of an aspect of intellectual feedback with which I am deeply familiar and upon
which I depend. And it's my capacity, my capacity to select the perfect term is slightly off kilter
at the moment. But when we, so you're actually witnessing a moment of desynchronization
and the feedback between
the thread of my thoughts and orientation and desire and purpose and my capacity to embody
those has been
slightly impoverished.
Because when I'm speaking ex tempore, I'm both experiencing a kind of feedback
and sort of writing the feedback I'm experiencing. And if something should
disturb or interrupt that process, my capacity to reinitiate it was affected.
To varying degrees right from the recoverable to actually it's better that it was in you know
from from a situation where it's better that it was interrupted than if it hadn't been which
does happen. To the recoverable to the stumbling to the irrecoverable right there's like there's
degrees of of repercussion. Much of human understanding experience and relation is
based upon something very very primeval that I actually hear going on around me all
all the time right now in the bird songs. It's based on
a relational behavior that I'll call that that I will term call and response.
And notice how the machine sounds which aren't as loud in the recording as they actually are here.
They tend to override and interfere with the natural signaling of the birds.
And of course that isn't merely signaling. Those sounds contain sophisticated information
in a way that's not only dissimilar to language. There are dimensions in which it supersedes
language. It accomplishes something language will never do by itself. And this is part of why I think
it's easy to forget that the origin of language was in song.
But you can hear that I'm not just merely speaking words like this. I am imbuing them
with living music. So in a sense if we are
to the degree that we are able to be musical in speaking
more information is encoded than mere words can convey. And one of the tragic features of being
a man is that we are trained to speak in relatively monotonal
musics right in very modest music. Whereas you know the music of women is unbelievably
effusive and right and it's not just that it has a higher pitch right. Women are encouraged
to use vocal music. Men are largely discouraged. Some of us become singers or poets and we recover
some musicality to our voices. But that inclusion of an extra dimension of information that musical
intonation of speech is profound and incredibly tragic when it is lost.
We men for all our apparent desire for primacy and dominance we suffer severely
in all kinds of ways that most of us are trained to become silent about if we are even capable
of awareness of them. And that's you know that's the kind of feedback between
gender and culture right but that's the other kind of feedback that's more like the
conversational kind. The call and response that happens in birds informs the entire relational
landscape right not just the birds. Where I was going when I desynchronized a little while ago was
that synchrony and feedback are important. If the synchrony is what we might refer to as good or
rich and coherent then the kinds of feedback that can emerge from that synchronization
will be similar right. They will be coherent. They will be rich. They'll be accessible. It's like
dancing to the music that's actually playing. Now what I want you to try or even try to imagine
is I want you to pretend in your mind that you're trying to dance to music that's actually playing
but you want to desynchronize yourself by about a half a second to a second
from the rhythms in the beats so that while the music's actually playing you're dancing too late.
It's probably almost impossible to do physically. It would be astonishing if someone
sent me a video of them actually succeeding and doing this and you could fake it right. You could
fake it by listening to music that was slightly desynchronized from the music that was playing
in the video yeah and then you would see oh I should try this. That would be crazy. That's a great
experiment. So yeah you could have music playing outside your ear and have music playing inside
your ear like that's half a second to one second occurring you know that much later and be dancing
to the second one while the first one is playing and you would see something that I think is
relatively impossible to do except with that mechanical setup which is to dance too late
to the music that's actually playing but in our cognitive experience in our dreaming experience
sometimes in our emotional experience in our relational experience our vocational experience
our social experience in all these domains of our humanity this kind of thing happens all the time
and one of the primary culprits in that is mechanical signals because we are not machines
and signals in nature are almost never mechanically stacked up the way that the
signals in machines that we constantly are exposed to are and I believe that those
mechanical frequencies
disturb our interiority
and they they imprint themselves on the character of many of our feedback experiences
possibly including things like some of the experiences of people who
who have been diagnosed with Asperger's or schizophrenia or bipolar disorder or
manic depressive disorder borderline personality disorder so on and so forth now that's so
that's a theory all I'm saying is that I strongly suspect that our exposure to machines
and their rhythms has largely deleterious effects on our organismal and cognitive
nature on the essence of our interiority and also that it affects the kinds of feedback
we are likely to produce and under what situations we're likely to experience those kinds of feedback
but when you've had some if you've had an experience of psychosis or of schizophrenia
or of mania or of depression then you've had an experience of a fundamental shift in the familiar
tone of self-relation
that orients your thought desire experience awareness consciousness attention faculties
capacities abilities and so on and it's possible to have
non-ordinary experiences
that are profoundly beautiful and inspiring and some of us have had some and this is one
of the reasons why people are relatively attracted to psychedelics a subject that I
consider to be much more dangerous than ordinary people usually think it is
and as I said you know some of the most profound experiences that we have as human beings the
experience of witnessing the birth of our child the experience of being born the experience of
becoming severely ill the experience of falling in love the experience of sexual relation with
another human being the experience of sexual relation with ourselves the experience of relation
with nature with animals with pets all of these involve feedback and it's useful to understand
that to be aware of that to be sensitive again to the fingerprint
to the fingerprint of feedback it can help us understand things that are profoundly puzzling
shocking disturbing unexpected including
our relationship
Japanese anemone
with ideas particularly in a time like the one we're in presently
where people are orienting themselves
into us and them groups
hmm
via the exchange of media objects
and media objects have been created for the express purpose of weaponizing
our human relationships and our capacity to exchange information and ideas during a crisis
there are enemy forces that that are utilizing the feedback field of social media intentionally
to produce both desynchronization and enmity
among clades of humans
hmm
has no sense or i can't i can't detect the sentence more accurate statement
so many sages here
oh wow that's incredible i'm a big fan of sage plants
i'm not a big fan of much at all i don't like the role of fan kind of into the originator role
um
to experience one's humanity in nature is to experience an entirely different species
and purpose for the production of of feedback than to be in a city or with machines
or you know the rhythms of nature resynchronize our bodies our bodies have they're they're
they're vastly more ancient the rhythms and signals and stimuli available in a living place
are a trillion fold a quadrillion fold more ancient than any then then all of our relationships
with objects and representations and machines and ideas and language and so on so it's profoundly
medicinal for those of us who can who are available to reorientation yeah to return to living places
and form relationships with the place itself and all of its inhabitants and their relationships
because that stuff is older than the idea of time it's much older than the physical universe
we're not going to explain how at the moment but trust me it's staggeringly older than the
physical universe is and people say well we can't be older than the physical universe yes you can
you can have for one thing if you measure the age of the physical universe in flat time 14.5
billion years you can produce more than that amount of individual time in one year on earth
because organisms are to time what stars are to light
and so they are so much older than anything you can imagine
it and it's useful to get a direct experience of that me talking to you about it is not going
to be very helpful unless it encourages you to get a direct experience yeah these little
jasmine flowers they really light up this whole area with fragrance
and that's a form of sensory experience and feedback that I just really lights me up the
fragrances of living beings and plants particularly certain plants obviously I favor some I don't
much like the experience of being human is fundamentally relative to the capacity to produce
and experience
blueberries no okay um feedback
and when we are deprived
of the kinds of feedback
that are nurturing and nourishing and encouraging and inspiring socially intellectually
communally creatively physically um in our sleep in our dreaming in our relationships
with food and exercise and sunlight and purpose in our lives when we are deprived of the the
nourishing inputs we are inclined to fall into modes of feedback that are both
profoundly gravidic in that they keep drawing us back down to sort of a lower or more primitive
undesirable array of behaviors and potentials and similarly similarly the opposite is true when
when those crucial nourishing and inspiring and rewarding aspects of feedback are present
in our lives and minds and relationships and so on then we rise up and we experience a vastly greater
scope yeah of our intrinsic human potential but this this first thing right the problematical
feedback the suffering that happens when we're entrenched in um terrible jobs and crappy roles and
crude relationships and and this kind of thing it leads toward
collapse it leads toward desynchronization it leads toward disharmony it leads toward addiction
it leads in the direction of mental illness and decoherence
so i want us to become aware of the power of feedback
which happens when we reenact things in cycles but it's also happening moment to moment
in the roots that underlie our capacity for consciousness awareness intelligence
meaningful awakeness and also things like dreaming and imagining and play and
human eros yeah i just want us to get more familiar with this aspect of our inherent
organismal and human nature and hopefully i'll talk more about this and more meaningfully in
an upcoming video but having failed to introduce the topic last night
hummingbirds chasing each other around the garden they're in a you know they're in a feedback loop
i intended to introduce this topic yesterday and so i wanted to at least get a start on it today
hopefully that you'll find um something of value in in this video
i'm very grateful that you've taken the time to join me and listen
and i look forward to learning together again very soon bye bye for now
