Hello everybody. Welcome. I very much appreciate the attention of those of you
who listen and those of you who support my channel and my work. And even if
sometimes the content isn't as sharp as it might be. You know, when you listen to a
rock album or perhaps a comedian, not every stroke is a hit, right? And we
have to make attempts. We have to actually make attempts, not think about making them.
To practice our skills and passions and unique gifts as human beings. And if the
world doesn't present us with a context in which to do it, though perhaps it
always does if we're impassioned and motivated enough to see it. What I mean
is like if somebody doesn't serve you up a context in which to practice your
humanity, your personal humanity, your communal humanity, perhaps also your
tribal humanity, which may be different, right? We might need, as moderns, maybe we
need at least three different contexts. And I would argue that, I would
suggest a softer term. We need all three and some communal endeavors can nourish
all three at once. I think there's, you know, four or five more I could probably
name, because we're not merely human. But if the world doesn't serve you up an easily
accessible context in which to practice, you know, an existing niche, a word that I
always thought was pronounced niche, as to rhyme with pitch rather than quiche. In
other words, if it's not an easily accessible niche for your practice, then
you have to make them. A Tai Chi person, for example, landing in a place where
there's no one to practice with may decide to continue their practice alone. And so
the practice remains not merely in the personal context, because these practices are, they
come from lineages. So they are, in a sense, tribal. The people who study Chen style, for
example, are one of the tribes of Tai Chi people, at least in language. And Tai Chi
people recognize each other as an extended family. Without explicitly being a religion,
it properly serves many of the functions of one. By creating a communal identity context,
or construct, that is pro individual, pro tribal, pro communal, pro healing, I mean,
you've got traditional Chinese medicine woven into that stuff. You've got a really effective
substitute for the catastrophic ineffectiveness of religion. And many Tai Chi schools are free.
People just come together at a certain time in a certain place and practice. And if the old
men are all together practicing, and a young person comes, and the old men will get together
to practice, they know there are many benefits to practicing together, many benefits that you
can't really make up for by practicing alone. The communal spirit, the little tribe spirit
of the group that helps each other learn Tai Chi, you know, Tai Chi Chuan, there's nothing like it.
It's profound. It protects you from disease. It protects you from despair. It protects you
from depression. It keeps your body healthy. And gives you a simple way to improve your health
in an ongoing way all the time. And to face health crises with much greater resilience and
preparedness, generally speaking. Similarly, to face recovery from health crises. So, I mean,
you're getting free health care just by doing Tai Chi. It's not perfect. It won't cure all diseases.
But TCM is very powerful when practiced by a knowledgeable lineage trained, you know,
a transferred practitioner. My transferred, I mean, they had an actual, a very skillful,
very knowledgeable teacher who transferred those skills to them, not merely by study and practice
together by a sort of agreement between teacher and protege. So, you know, am I recommending Tai Chi?
Absolutely. What I was saying is, if a Tai Chi person comes to a place where no one is practicing,
they don't see anyone out practicing. They might just start practicing in public. Now, ordinarily,
Tai Chi is something you want to do privately. You don't want to be on display. But there are
exceptions. In a city where no one does Tai Chi, you might start doing it publicly. You might
even put up little, you know, notes, Tai Chi for health, right, around the city. Here's where we
meet. Here's the time, you know, donations only. Everyone can come. And so then they go and they
practice and one or two people show up and then they practice and three or four people show up.
And if things are good, very soon, you know, 10 or 15 people will be there together practicing.
And very few of those people have any idea what it is they are actually practicing.
They will learn mostly choreography with some foundations.
All right. Oh, this is so funny.
So they will learn the movements and the teachers, the teacher, who may themselves just be a student
who is moved away from their teacher, right? Often in such a case, the teacher will tell
the student when they are leaving, presuming there even is a teacher, you know, the relationship is
formal. In Tai Chi, usually called Sifu, in martial arts, Sifu. But the teacher will often
tell the student, you know, when you get to Tombstone, Arizona, set up your teaching practice
there. And this will be like, what? Maybe my teaching practice. And the teacher will say,
oh, I see, you think you're not ready to teach? And the student says, absolutely not. Of course,
I'm not ready to teach. What are you? What are you thinking? And the teacher just says,
no, what are you thinking? Don't you see that teaching is a better way to learn?
You will learn much faster by teaching. So you, you know, you think you are new to the art? Yes,
you are. You've only been doing it X amount of time, right? In this case, let's say like nine
months or something. Yeah, a little bit. Now, what will happen to your practice if you don't
support it in Tombstone? Well, it will get a Tombstone.
I mean, if you're really fervent, you might continue it, but you'll have a much easier time
continuing it and deepening it with others who have become interested. So take the little booklet
of the principles I have given you with you to the graveyard and plant a seed there of Tai Chi.
Now, this is, the funny thing about this is that
the society of Tai Chi people is a society within our society where people nurture,
support, care for, encourage and empower each other, not just to learn Tai Chi, right? Yes,
of course, also to learn Tai Chi, yeah, but many, many things. To learn equanimity,
to learn resilience, to learn a joyful way of life, a joyful path, to learn to find and create
a joyful path in life, to laugh together, to overcome hardship together,
all of these things. So you have something, and by the way, they don't have a constitution,
they don't have like rules written in stone. They don't even need
to, for example, declare what rights of individuals must be preserved within the communal
context because they invent that context together moment by moment in relation.
And yes, there's competition, and you know, guys peacocking and whatever, it's martial arts,
there's, I'm not saying it's all pure, you know, water of life, but compared to our ordinary societies,
the purity quotient is enormous.
Now, when you begin doing Tai Chi, you eventually discover something peculiar about it.
And what's peculiar about it is that
there is an outer form and an inner form.
The outer form might be understood as the choreography.
You move these limbs and your torso in these ways, you place your weight,
you distribute your weight over your feet in these ways, in a sequence over time, usually slowly.
Beautiful sound. But where is his mate?
I do not see him.
Hi bud, where's your lady?
Where's your female?
Hmm, you're on your own at mating season? Wow.
All right, I wonder why did something get her?
Huh.
So there is an outer form and an inner form.
And the outer form is visually striking and beautiful,
resembling a mixture of a martial arts form, a fighting form, and a dance.
The really strange thing about Tai Chi is that the inner form is secret.
Um, you can give the outer form away for free,
almost none of those people, unless they're very dedicated,
nearly none of them will begin to practice the inner form. Some of them will discover it on their
own over time, especially if they learn that such a thing exists.
I was listening to some, uh, an older Sifu, what was his tradition, I can't remember.
But, and he said a few things I found quite interesting, but one of them was,
you know, back in the days when
the Shogunate or the Emperor or whoever in, say, China or Japan
um, one thing they didn't want existing anywhere were martial arts practitioners
because they had the power to defy
um, an attempt at coercion by violence, right?
Um, they had the power to, you know, if not completely block a small crew of violent males
sent to do harm somewhere, they could certainly make it very costly for them to do so in terms of,
you know, lost agents of tyrannical dictatorships, right, like lost soldiers.
So, there were many times in history when the tyrannical rulers sent out assassins,
or just killers, you know. I guess assassin is a sort of code word for a very sophisticated,
skillful thing. These guys just went around murdering people with swords and such.
And if they heard, you know, that there was a martial arts practitioner in some village or town,
they'd kill them first. So,
what this teacher said, which I thought was fucking amazing actually,
is that in order to preserve the forms, they hid them in slow dance-like movements
so that they could somewhat reasonably claim that they were just exercising.
And so, you can see that really what they did is they encrypted the inner Tai Chi form
so that it could be passed on and preserved. The outer form would form like an envelope,
right, an encryption, an encrypted envelope that inside would contain Tai Chi Chuan, the essence of
it. And what is the essence of Tai Chi Chuan? Well, it's a complex thing to answer.
The essence of Tai Chi Chuan is a spirit
of discovery and self-refinement,
that in the form is expressed with internal movements of the body that lead
to movement of the outer body.
So that effectively the mind moves the body
and there are internal coilings, energy transfers, and releases that becomes sort of like a symphony over time.
These things are learned not nearly by physically practicing them,
but by imagining them happening. So in a sense, Tai Chi Chuan,
the inner path of it requires a complex array of visualization skills. One imagines
transferring energy, for example, from a place on the sole of the foot
to a dan tian in the lower abdomen, a little bit below the belly button, back a couple of
three fingers maybe, a little ball of energy there, and then into, right, so the departing
foot transfers energy into the dan tian, which then transfers energy into the stepping foot,
and then the stepping foot anchors that energy or makes it float, right, and this kind of thing.
There is a place in the palm of your hand which is approximately, hello,
the young ravens.
They are so big. The teenagers are so big.
I might even just be crows, but I doubt that their beaks are too dang big to be crows.
They love their peanuts. Peanuts are bird heroine.
A twitcher I know, probably the most knowledgeable bird around here.
Super bird geeky guy said that to me one day. He said, yeah, peanuts are bird heroine.
He has a lot of birds in his home.
Tai Chi is a doorway to the memory of the origin and the nature and the abilities of
the human soul. Maybe the spirit is a better word here.
And the principles embodied in the movements are not merely
attacks, parries, entanglements, and so forth.
They come from animal dances primarily, but they were also developed by many different
masters. Of an art we rarely see evidence of today, it's very difficult to be trained properly in
Tai Chi in 2024, I imagine. The teachers of the internal path are few and old and difficult to
get to, but there may be some out there in the wild somewhere.
And one can discover it on one's own, but it would probably have to be like your primary
life focus, all day Tai Chi, all every day, you know, kind of thing.
So even if you do Tai Chi in public, there used to be like a competition, right,
between the different houses of Tai Chi.
Wu, Chen, I'm forgetting most of the names.
Perhaps some others will come to me. So there was, you know, back in the days when Tai Chi practice
was very common in China and Japan particularly, there was competition between the schools. So
you wanted to hide certain techniques and so forth. Also, if whatever you are practicing
is being observed by others, that is different from practicing it privately.
But they, they encrypted it anyway, probably for reasons very similar to what was said by
that old teacher. And so, over time, what happened was, it kind of split into two paths,
the Tai Chi for health path and the Tai Chi for combat path.
And then the latter split into two paths, Tai Chi for actual, you know, superiority on the battlefield,
right, which has to get tested all the time. And what we could call posing,
which is the study of Tai Chi as if it were effective in hand-to-hand combat.
The schools that practice for health are broad and well-entrenched. The schools that practice
for combat are relatively few. And the ones that practice for actual battle efficiency are very
few. There are some, though. Though these days, many of the lineages have become muddied by,
we practice 17 art, you know, we practice six different martial arts or whatever.
I practice Tai Chi for health. I'm not a fighter.
Though I imagine, you know, given the need. Tai Chi is surprisingly useful. If you, if you
practice it regularly, it will serve you in combat, even if it doesn't. You probably don't
want to rely on it, right? Because the other person's going to be throwing rapid fire attacks and
possibly tabling very effective parries and or entanglement. So, and what do I mean by entanglement?
Well, it should be obvious. I mean, like jiu-jitsu, grappling stuff. Entanglement is probably,
I would think of it as the feminine aspect of martial arts.
Because it's, it's capturing, binding, twisting, and locking.
So, all of these things deprive someone of movement rather than or possibly consciousness,
rather than exchanging blows with them. Now, if you think carefully,
you want to be prepared to deal with blows, but you want to receive as few of them as possible,
right? With none being the preferred
accounting, right? Yeah, zero.
So, am I recommending Tai Chi Chuan? Absolutely. If you can study Tai Chi,
get to it. Unless you have a really strong aversion. If you spend time jogging or at the gym,
Tai Chi will serve you better than, than those things in most, in nearly all cases.
Though it will also compliment other, you know, practices of athleticism.
But it will teach you principles that are very, very deep and are in fact metaphysical.
You don't have to sign up, right? You don't have to believe the church of Tai Chi.
But the first time you feel Chi and transfer it to another person,
you will be convinced that something you did not understand previously is and has long been going
on on earth. The feeling of Chi is not too hard to generate. You can learn to generate Chi fairly
quickly with any reasonable teacher if that's part of your goal. But yeah, the experience of
Chi will change your life. What is meant by this is life energy. It is the primordial energy
that other modes are related to or derivations of, right? Like light, for example.
And Chi is intelligent. It's not just a force.
Any teacher at all is better than no teacher, so don't worry too much about finding the best teacher.
If you have a lot of money
or you live somewhere where you're lucky and there's a lot, there's more than one or two
skillful teachers, then of course, you know, do your homework. Pick the best one.
I mean, pick the best one anyway, but
if you want to lift your mood,
improve your health, benefit your cognition, your sense of balance, your digestion, your immune
system, your physical and emotional resilience, the practice of Tai Chi will contribute dramatically
to all of these things. You know, even if only done 15, 20 minutes a day, right? Even if you just
do the form, your form once in the day, it's enough. And then you meet and work a little longer
form with the teacher once a week or something, right?
Now, I bring up Tai Chi for a strange reason. I wasn't actually intending to talk at length
about Tai Chi. What I thought was really interesting was that it was encrypted.
You see 50 elderly people in a park
on Saturday morning here in the city. Most of them are wearing white.
They're gracefully moving through the form led by a teacher.
You certainly don't think, ah, it's the gray warriors. These are the ass-kicking,
you know, soldiers of, what's that district of North Beach?
No, it looks like elderly people are doing a health dance or something.
And mostly that's probably what they are doing.
But underneath that are anciently developed and perfected and conserved principles
of physical engagement and disarming, entanglement, lethal strikes,
um, organ shattering. Like, yeah, I mean, this stuff is quite serious when
the internal articulation
is accomplished.
You know, nature as we perceive it.
Tai Chi is emulating a feature of nature which is to hide the intelligence
particularly from the humans and meta particularly from the humans who have
defected from intelligence.
To hide the intelligence so it can't be weaponized.
Because if something captures the basis of life on earth,
the metallogue to Chi
and weaponizes that everything dies, including the weaponizers around here.
So like Tai Chi, nature has the outward form,
the shape, color, sound, smell, texture, template, instance.
And with the right lens,
an intelligent human
can learn to see.
The hereditary fingerprint of the spirit
within, above, below, beneath all beings.
With the right kind of lens, your body and mind become the decryption, the inaction of decryption.
And you begin to see beyond what humans see.
It is natural for all of us to do this.
It is dangerous to stumble on to the discovery of these lenses.
And it's part of what people seek in high risk endeavors or
physical testing of the body endeavors, particularly combat,
sex, particularly orgasm, which is a fundamental transformation of the lens of being.
There are many different, many, many different kinds of orgasm, not merely the kinds that are
achieved by rubbing flowers together.
And also in art, in music, in dance, excuse me,
in comedy, in drama, in literature, in comic books.
There's a way
of partly decoding the encryption, the fundamental encryption.
What have I done here?
If the artist creates
a perfectly photorealistic rendition of an actual photograph,
the process whereby they create that is a form of decryption.
And demands strange lenses in the mind
that help us to understand how to produce visual textures with graphite on paper.
Such that they so resemble the textures of light
captured by a photographic medium, which are certainly different between
electronic captures and analog captures with lenses.
There are an array of intelligences, physical, perceptual, respectival,
that are involved. But if they produce instead a creative rendering
of, I was actually thinking for some reason about a coyote,
creative rendering of a coyote, then what happens is it is as if
very unique intelligences that belong to the dreaming mind and the child's way of seeing
the world and the imagination and the emoto cognitive relationship
and the participatory aspects of human intelligence,
then these begin to infuse the art. And Tai Chi is very similar in this way.
It can be infused by all of those things very profoundly.
And the practice of visualizing something, even if you're a fantagic,
to some degree, just walking through the steps in your mind,
visualizing the, even if you can't see and you only see blackness,
you can still pretend to see an image, what it might look like,
if you move your arm in this and such a way.
That visualization is very profoundly useful.
But what I want to actually point out here is that there are accessible lenses
that decrypt that bird sound you just heard. There are accessible lenses
that will let you look at the sunlight on a body of water and understand
things that are impossible to ordinary human cognition.
There are lenses that allow participation in non-human conversations.
There are lenses that decrypt physical reality to such a degree
that looking at a physical object, you can know its history, its provenance,
its ancestry, its lineage. Looking at a human being, you can know their name.
And you'll say, oh, that's psychism, not necessarily.
We might have this totally backwards where that's the natural state of most human minds
and something's interfering with that so that it seems very rare.
You know, people have the joke, well, if you're psychic, tell me the question I'm going to ask next.
I'm not realizing that the future isn't written in stone, especially in a relationship we
negotiate the future together. This is the natural way of being human. We determine
the question by mutual, by a sort of mutual dancing.
Physics and mathematics can be understood in a sense as a series of lenses,
interfaces, if you will. Between cognition
and what I'll call the world, but I mean the universe. We don't usually have direct experience
of the universe beyond the scale. I mean, what is the scope of our direct experience is an
interesting question. And on the one hand, hello.
I suspect this is the little bird I heard singing yesterday.
It's very tiny and super vital.
Its tail sticks out at an angle. Is it dancing?
It might be because it's not feeding.
I wonder what the scope
of our experience is.
We moderns know there's something in the sky beyond the earth.
But we might be the least intelligent people in all of human history.
I would argue we probably are, about what that is. Science hasn't brought us closer to knowing what
it is. If anything, science keeps telling us more and more about what it isn't.
Because what it isn't is a dead, empty, mechanical vacuum. No chance of that producing a living
planet like this one, none, zero. We will definitely find that that is not what happened
here. If our species lives past its
addiction to absurdity in machines.
Our capacity to forge and utilize new lenses together,
which is a metaphor of a way of manipulating consciousness to produce specific perspectives
that are otherwise quite difficult to imagine or get access to.
Many people are entertained by science fiction. And when I use those two words together
I don't necessarily mean whatever that seems to mean today,
which I'm actually not even sure what those two words usually mean or mostly mean circa 2024.
I'm using them with a nod to Korzybski in the way they were understood in the 30s, 40s, 50s,
60s, 70s, 80s, and before.
These stories were profoundly amazing and compelling. And they were compelling because
they gave us new ways of seeing into the nature of the human relationship with time, space,
technology, intelligence, each other.
What we might think of as the fundamental forces
and the possibilities of introduced by the idea of space travel,
which is one of the most profound ideas in the history of human thinking.
At the same time,
it seems obvious if we look carefully at the traditions, art, and architecture of ancient
cultures of humans on earth, at least we must imagine to have been humans.
I'm going to do about this. I'm going to talk to the musical background.
I think I'm going to have to change course.
So science fiction to a precocious young person or older person
will give you lenses that you're very unlikely to compose yourself or to employ yourself.
And this is its primary value.
And that value is far greater than whatever entertainment might emerge from your reading
a story or seeing a film. The real value is the intelligence you can absorb, inherit,
refashion as your own. If you're thinking that way about your experience and you're not just
defecting from consciousness by watching a show or reading a book.
And, you know, not a problem for the people who prefer that mode, but different.
Different in what one receives very dramatically. Having read a few thousand science fiction stories,
my mind has many mothers and fathers.
My lens making aspect, I even remember a story where a particular kind of technological lens that
one could wear created highly intelligent sort of super humans that were called lens men.
But consciousness gets structured by purpose. And if the purpose is insight and we are curious
and we want to see new features of a familiar landscape as from above or as from within
or as from a concern, right, what you will notice about the lenses we make in consciousness
is that our concerns and purposes determine what the lens will produce when employed.
And what I'm talking about here
is a meta skill. A skill that supervenes over all, you know, all other skills.
And many people who become
performatively excellent, they are aware that there are meta skills. There are skills that
contribute to the efficacy, progeneration, depth and capacity to innovate. There are skills that
have these features that are outside any specific skill domain.
I'm not sure if I'm a quote visual learner or not, but
and though I do not usually see pictures in my mind, sometimes I can or do,
what I can see it are invisible things that are a bit like
invisible geometries that link features of thought, experience, behavior, reflection,
creativity, in ways that my regular mind, my everyday mind, is very unlikely to conceive of,
let alone employ.
And, you know, humor is a way of kind of deconstructing common experience
to produce a giggle or, you know, total loss of control.
And I'm not here today to make jokes about humor, being hilarious, which of course we all know that
humor is hilarious the same way that chocolate tastes great for those of us who like it.
But my mind is in a different mode, right? I'm using, you can see I'm actually doing what I'm
talking about. I'm using a lens that allows me to talk about using lenses. I'm using a lens
that allows me to talk about forging new lenses. I'm using a lens that allows me to talk hopefully
usefully about combining unusual lenses in consciousness, partly by forming novel purposes
foreseeing. And I'm using a lens that allows me to talk about meta skills.
And that's presuming that I'm using a lens at all. The concept is metaphoric, not literal.
But I have noticed that
concern shapes attention,
which in turn transforms concern. And you could replace the word concern with the word purpose.
Tai Chi's actual purpose is transcendental. It's its actual purposes are transcendental,
but it uses directly accessible ladders to allow us to move in that direction until it becomes natural
for us to form and employ the lenses in awareness and in our physical bodies
that produce Tai Chi. I'm pretty sure what Tai Chi actually means is something like
Supreme Ultimate. It doesn't say Supreme Ultimate Fighting. It says Supreme Ultimate.
This is what my teacher, my original teacher, Casey Mao, said.
And I trust him. I think he's telling the truth. I've heard other people say similar things.
If even some of the encryption of nature was removed from your cognition,
or if you could resolve, if you could put a lens in place that buffered the encryption
and delivered some of the inner message, the experience you would have would
be more heroic than any story you've ever heard.
Dangerous as hell and ecstatically beautiful beyond anything you can possibly hope for
because you're certainly incapable of imagining, no matter how imaginative it might be,
the beauty of what is actually going on in and around and within and above us.
Religion's wildest promises of paradise would
pale in the face of the beauty of something as simple as a tadpole or house spider.
I have avoided my main topic for today, which was the recreation of a recording I made yesterday.
And that's all right.
I was practicing retaining better topical focus
today.
I hope you will continue to wonder at the strange landscape of encryption
and the human relationship to it, the relationship particularly of religious books to this,
because if you write down the actual secret, if you have any enemies or if there's anyone
who can weaponize it, both things will come and get you.
So when you read Taoist texts, for example, the Dao De Ching,
which is, you know, Daoism and Tai Chi Chuan go hand in hand.
When you read these texts, they're inscrutably linguistically impenetrable.
That's not an accident, and it's not merely
it's not merely romantic poesy. We're so in love, we're so impassioned
that we're speaking in parabolic metonymic prose.
No, that's stuff's encryption.
And most of the intelligent
people who were trying to encode something for future generations,
whether that something was the Mona Lisa or an array of mathematical formulas,
they were using encryption,
even if it is not obvious,
even perhaps if they were unaware of it.
Our subconscious minds, our interiority,
could be understood to encrypt some of its content with what we call symbols.
And if we think carefully about what those are, or may be, or what they do in human cognition,
we will certainly find
a world whose beauty and depth, whose intelligences and strangeness
eclipses science fiction, religion, science itself, and math.
The origins of our ways of knowing
are buried in our bones and cells, available to excavation
for those who the project sufficiently fascinates.
And if that's you, I'm glad to have your ear.
And if it isn't,
may your path be blessed and true to your spirit.
Nevertheless, thank you for joining me.
Bye-bye for now.
