Hello, everybody. Welcome. Thank you for taking some time to spend together exploring and
wondering about some of the secret hidden features of our experience and our humanity
that are easily occluded by language concepts and ideas that we pick up from our parents and
societies, peers and cultures. Today, I'm going to be talking about time while I'm spending some time
with a couple of creatures that I'm very close with. A couple of scrub jays. Who are my friends?
They'll be with us throughout the recording, even though you may not notice. I have an escort,
and it is good. I think the word in Blackfoot that resembles the idea of goodness is Iqsokapi.
One of the few Blackfoot phrases that I've learned that I very much enjoy saying, because it's so
unlike English, is Iqsokapi kitoktoks, a rough translation of which it's good to hear you,
good to hear your voice. And that kitoktoks word, which I'm probably slightly mispronouncing,
it's reminiscent of the sounds of speaking. Sometimes at the end of a conversation, one might say,
kitetamatsipsitsat. A rough translation of this is, we will make the sounds of the wind in the leaves
together again soon. As though our speech is like the beautiful sound of wind in trees,
where there are many voices, many sounds. So the other night, I was doing what I'm often doing,
which is mostly nothing particularly virtuous or noble. I'm trying to keep myself occupied,
and this is something humans commonly do. We try to find things to fill up time with,
watching television, videos, movies, cleaning things can be nice.
But we have a great deal of time
where we are not obligated to be doing something other than what we wish or choose.
Many of us do anyway. And I think a lot of what happens for us, generally speaking, is that
having to constantly be involved in behaviors, processes, and activities
that are relatively miserable, or not very meaningful, or at least we do not experience them as meaningful,
standing in line at the grocery store,
or having to do some job that is not inspiring,
or is the necessity produced by some form of commerce or consumption
or production, working for corporations, companies.
And this absence of meaningful experience in our daily lives as adults,
the absence of play, of wonder, of learning, of joyful development together, of mutual
rescue and protection. I think many of us may feel when we stop
doing the things that we have to do, we think, and it's not entirely untrue if we want to
pay rent and buy food and have water and do laundry and have shelter,
perhaps shelter and help and feed others too. If we want to do these things either
in our present culture, because it's not a culture of sharing, it's a culture of buying.
So if we want to do these things, we may have to have jobs, and sometimes we will have good
jobs, sometimes we will have bad jobs, sometimes we will invent our own jobs,
and some of those can be very fulfilling. And some of us learn how to be fulfilled by
the work we do, even if it is not what we might have specifically chosen,
or something that we would find deeply enriching and nourishing and rejuvenating and inspiring.
And so for many of us, our workaday world drags us down to a level of existence
and layers of thought and consciousness that are largely miserable. And when we are free of the yoke
of these tasks, unfortunately, many of us find ourselves bereft of inspiration.
And so we may spend time attempting to recover in ways that aren't actually
rejuvenating or refreshing. We just want something to kind of hitchhike our attention on,
and a film is really good for this in the sense of being effective, usually to some degree.
But creative endeavors are certainly better.
And whether or not I sound intelligent and articulate in my videos,
you can be sure that for much of my time, when I'm doing something other than making these videos,
I'm a regular human being, and I know the sufferings and occasional joys that are common
to my people in this time, in this time.
So the other night as I was switching behaviors, I don't remember exactly which behaviors I was
switching between, but they weren't anything noble. Perhaps I had eaten some food, and then maybe I
ate some for a moment, and then I began to play a video game. And just as I was beginning to play
the video game, something inside me paused. And this strange kind of pause, this momentary
interruption of routine can be deeply profound if we learn to pay attention to it. And I'm so hungry,
starving really, for meaningful experience of being human, that I was able to pay attention
and set my controller down and took some time to listen. Now, of course, I wasn't listening
because there wasn't a voice. Sometimes there could be, and sometimes that's dangerous,
and sometimes it's beautiful. But I realized that suddenly I sensed that my behaviors
were forms of time, that my behaviors changed not merely the durations and pace and rhythms
and cadences, the music of my experience.
They were, my behaviors were creating temporalized experiences of different kinds.
And I was deeply surprised because I've thought richly and long about the profound
hidden anatomies of time, which truly is nothing like our clocks and less. That's what we mean by
time when we use the word or have the idea arise in our mind.
So I was very surprised and I think this discovery is rich.
Now, I've long understood something peculiar about time, although it's too easy to have a
conceptual understanding of this matter and lack the embodied access to the opportunities
that such a perspective might otherwise provide for experiences that take us deep into
the origins of our minds and interiority, which is, could be thought of as a direction
opposite of that we travel in commonly in our thinking, evaluation, expectations, naming of
things and so on. But I long ago realized that each organism, and of course all organisms are
multi-organisms, well, even the ones that are simple single cells are still multi-organisms
because they relate with and hitchhike on opportunities and threats in their environment
with other organisms. Now, this hitchhiking thing is really important for living beings.
All the living beings here hitchhike on the sun. Anywhere we can acquire some resources
with little or no effort, there's a natural gradient there that all of life is profoundly,
almost magically sensitive to. But that topic is so interesting that it presents the danger of
dragging me away from my central idea here. The idea that our activities create unique forms of time
in a way not entirely dissimilar to how
the desire to learn and express and explore
the field of intelligence associated with my humanity
creates something not tangible except in my speaking. So you can hear in my speaking.
Right now, I'm engaged in a number of activities, among them walking, breathing,
making this recording, and I'm having thoughts and sensations and feel the air. I hear the birds,
I hear the birds, I hear the traffic.
So you'll notice that there's a pace to my speaking and there's music in my speaking.
This is something I'm very sensitive to, the music of voices.
Much like I'm sensitive to body language because these are older, richer,
they have more dimensions of meaning, they can carry and convey and transfer different kinds of
meaning than mere words can. And so even now as I'm exploring this topic,
as we explore it together during your listening time, which will be different
from my recording time in a strange way that's important at least to glance at,
I'm creating forms of time.
And we're all familiar with the seemingly peculiar, I mean, what renders this peculiar.
I recently have seen many articles claiming that researchers have been astonished to
discover that specific animals are capable of tasks, behaviors, that for some reason
the researchers and some others have come to believe
are unique to human beings.
Over and over again, the researchers are astonished apparently if we're to believe
these headlines, which I really think we shouldn't. Most headlines are these days traps
for our intelligence. They cater to our fears and biases rather than lifting us beyond them.
Which would certainly be a more noble endeavor.
Now out in the garden right now, I'm looking at a tree and there are bright red buds
at the end of every bare branch. The tree is making budding time.
That's not the only kind of time it's making, but each of the organisms
is an embodiment of unique features of temporality, locally, relationally, perhaps universally.
And this is a staggering thing to discover and it's endlessly deep. It's infinitely deep.
One cannot exhaust the potential for learning, wonder, and otherwise
unavailable opportunities that this perspective grants us
the capacity to consider in our minds.
Now of course, we don't merely consider it in our minds. If I embrace someone I love
or the cat is lazing in my lap, occasionally insisting that I scratch its ears or
its musk glands and its whiskers or its belly, then we're making a kind of time together. And
of course in English, there's the colloquialism for loving, which is extremely suspicious if we
weren't already thinking this way and nearly none of us are. And the colloquialism is,
oh, they are making time together. They're making time. Now this is an old colloquialism and may
not be familiar to all of you. And some people would associate it with love making particularly,
but others would associate it with just deep intimate relations in all the different
expressions of those relations.
But what stood out and blew my mind was the felt, the deep felt sense that I was on to
something here, something very important and rare. And as I began to chase the little light of insight
a bit, I was astonished to see that our behaviors, our habits, our schedules,
these are our forms of time making.
And it's unfortunate and perhaps tragic something worth remedying that many of us
when we are free of obligation are so stressed out, confused, isolated,
trapped in thoughts that are painful or undesirable. We may replay histories
in which we were wronged, an injustice was done, we were hurt.
But so many of us when we have what we refer to as free time, we kind of want to hide from it.
And there's all kinds of ways of doing that. And I suppose that when we're engaged in hiding from it,
we're doing something that's being done all around us all the time. So it's not too surprising that we
might go along with that. We're making dead time. Now it's not completely dead for we are alive
within it. But what I mean is that we're employing the faculties and abilities that as living creatures
and as human beings we have around temporalization in a way that is not healthy for us, not nurturing,
tends to become habitual, addictive, dragging us into sort of more and more primitive or
counterfeited experiences of, well one word I could use is satiety. We're looking,
we're trying to satiate something. We feel hungry in a way, even though it may not be
ordinary hunger. We ache to be raised up from the traps and low lying terrain of our common experience.
In the direction of something more worthy of our attention and concern and investment and relation.
Now of course in the modern moment most of us live in boxes and boxes create
dead time by their nature. Because in boxes, with few exceptions, if we have pets,
maybe if we have some plants, but in boxes nothing is moving. And so the form of time,
the forms of time that are available in a box are profoundly limited.
And again we have options, we could you know make some behavioral selections, we could meditate,
we could create music, we could dance, we could bathe, we could make food, we could clean,
we could watch something. But inside our boxes when we are watching things like films or shows,
we're actually seeing human beings pretending to be engaged in extremely meaningful roles,
relationships, problems, solutions. And so it's as if we're being fed the opposite of what we need.
However closely that opposite mimics what we're actually hungry for, what we deeply desire.
But the thing that blew me away was just the structured idea. I realized if I'm playing the
video game, then all of its temporalities, schedules, pastings, and presentations,
nearly all of which are pretty crude mechanical replacements for meaningful adventure.
But when I'm playing that video game I become differently timed inside. And the compass
of what is meaningful or urgent or can safely be ignored or will be valuable shifts completely
into an imaginary array of a library really of little transactions inside machines,
displayed on a screen that is the only thing moving inside my box, these images. And of
course they're not actually moving, what they're doing is far weirder than movement.
It's more or less a particulate. Clouds of pixels are being transformed per second.
And when we look at human culture or even the sound of this traffic around me,
one of the things we can see is that moderns have found all kinds of ways to skip over
the possibilities of meaningful engagement, roles, embodiment, and have replaced these
with transactions. Now our computers, what we consider powerful in terms of computation,
is the capacity to crush time. To take something that would take a million humans,
10 years to do, we can have a machine do this in seconds or less.
Our cars collapse the ordinary temporalities of travel, their rhythms and paces the adventure
travel into a box-like thing on wheels where we can get it done faster.
But getting it done faster doesn't mean we didn't change what it was. And by getting it done faster
this travel, we're changing what our minds can be and become.
Each time we repeat this behavior, and so it is with all of our behaviors.
The time I spend bathing
is entirely unique.
There is nothing that resembles it in the rest of my day,
and it's not just unique in my experience of its duration. For we're all aware that
if we feel bored, and usually that's a symptom of some kind of damage has either been done or
going on, because otherwise it's very difficult to bore an animal like us. But if we feel bored,
time can drag on interminably, or if we're in pain, particularly if the pain is sharp and physical.
And most of us will spend a lot of time in both of these experiences.
One way to understand boredom is the lack of felt access to meaningful behaviors and temporalizations.
But I'm still having trouble communicating my core concern here. Let's see if I can encapsulate it in some words.
Sometimes in the morning,
I get up early and go to a special place, and there I meet with some very beautiful people,
a small group, mostly men, and we do Tai Chi. And when we are doing this together,
our experience of ourselves, the universe, time, all of this changes. And it's not merely the duration
that changes, it's the character. It's what, it's the fruit inside time. And that fruit can be profoundly
nourishing, healing, liberating, or it can be kind of blah, or it can actually be harming us.
And all of our activities are ways of making different modes of time.
A walk in the morning is a profoundly different thing from getting on the bus to go to my job.
And all of the temporalizations that will happen throughout the day in my job until I get on
the bus again and come home. And after that kind of stress, I may feel really bereft inside.
I may feel a kind of inner poverty,
an aching lack of void that isn't good. And I want to bring something into that
that gives relief or is nourishing. And of course, I may have a meal when I get home.
But even this in our modern circumstances can become a chore or just another thing that we
have to get done. A job. And when I, if for example, I look at Facebook, say for 30 minutes,
when I was more creative, I nearly never looked at Facebook. I only used it to write.
So I would only go there when I was sort of burning with an inspiration that I wanted to
explore or record or assert. And so I never doom scrolled. But these days are different
for me. My mind is different. And so I sometimes do scroll through the newsfeed.
And while I'm doing that,
my experience of time flattens. And that flat experience is uninhabitable.
Generally, we enjoy things that have an adventurous relationship with the dimensions of
time so that we can be liberated from the minute to minute tracking of, you know,
when is my lunch break? When do I sleep? When do I bathe? When do I eat?
When do I have to do these 17 tasks that are on my list?
So when I'm looking at Facebook, there's a kind of flattening of the dimensionality of time.
And there's also a pace, right? The pace at which I encounter and determine whether this
post by someone is interesting and if it were not and why and if I feel triggered by it or
if something about it inspires me. And one of the great dangers
is to put the critic, the critical faculties, the judges, the evaluators,
in charge of our waking consciousness. That makes flat time.
It's too easy, excuse me,
for us in general, particularly if we're sharp, if we have a sharp intellect,
it's too easy to wander around finding out what's bad or wrong with things.
And that's a miserable mode of time. Generally, it has no effect or actually,
it has no positive effect on the things that concern us. Rather, it
funds the strange processes in our society and culture that feed on killing
the spirit of time
in our experience.
Flattening it, representing it, chopping it up, serving it back to us
in ever less nourishing forms and portions. But this is not our nature.
This is our vulnerability. And the vulnerability emerges in part from our enmeshment
in modern ideas, contexts, machines, jobs, war, what we call medicine.
And the strange and very often very superficial role playing behaviors
that humans, well many humans, are compelled by.
And of course money
is part of that problem. Money's an aspect of that trouble.
We've all heard the confusing and problematical colloquialism that time is money.
Whatever time might be, it certainly isn't money.
What is meant by this idea is that, or this colloquialism's trope,
is that money has so, our concerns about money and wealth and productivity
to be doing something useful are so compelling that they've invaded the most intimate aspects
of our being. And those aspects are profoundly temporal.
And money is a way of flattening them. So obviously the idea is,
if you have some free time, you should be making money. Of course none of us ever made money.
Well, few of us made money. We earn money or we acquire money or we lose money in various
ways. And money is a stand-in for value. Because once we have an agreed upon commodity of exchange,
we can skip the relationships involved and just use money as a means
of fulfilling the necessities of our lives. And then if that's taken care of,
most of us will turn toward luxury.
Already, even in my relatively impoverished existence, I live with luxuries inconceivable
to my ancestors. I still find it miraculous and it's a form of time. When I turn on the faucet,
then water comes out.
Somewhere, that flowing water is being measured
and someone's being charged money, metrically, according to the flow of water or the flow of
electricity. And when we are together in the morning and we are doing tai chi,
we have some idea of what we're after, but we're really chasing something that's
almost inconceivable or seemingly impossible. And for all we have learned together about this
thing we're chasing, this experience or skillfulness, awareness that we're chasing together,
it's still very mysterious to us. And many of us have spent decades in pursuit of it.
And most of us in that time developed bad habits.
But now we must struggle to unlearn in order to proceed toward understanding and embodying
the principles. So when we begin a behavior,
the milestones that we look toward to understand success, failure, meaning, value,
opportunity, threat, all of these change. If I'm washing the dishes,
something I used to really not like, but now I feel quite differently about,
I still, the sort of task averse part of me is still capable of resisting the dish washing.
But there are other aspects that have discovered
unusual opportunities and benefits available of washing the dishes. And since essentially
the dishes have to be done at some point, I'm likely to be found doing them shortly after they've
been created by eating things or cooking things. But there's a slowing down
and a kind of meditative silence available to me. If I'm willing to be mindful, and I'm not always
that willing in washing the dishes, carefully cleansing them, testing them, checking them.
Ma is the sexually clean. And these are some of the pivots around which the temporality
weaves itself in that task. Now another example is when I go for a walk, there's some point in my walk.
You know, obviously I may have a destination in mind, or I may be repeating a habit,
and I'll be differently mindful and mindful in different ways in each walk.
But when I go for a walk, there's a point somewhere in the walk I eventually noticed where
I realize that I'm now in the beginning of the walk, I am departing my ordinary box and circumstances.
And so there's the opportunity for adventure, unknowns, novelty. And by the time I get to
about my walk's midpoint, and I find that I'm now engaged in traversing the route home,
departing on the walk is a different kind of time than returning on the walk.
And like a child who's been told that they have to go to bed in half an hour,
I find myself feeling sometimes disappointed and less able to be mindful on the return journey.
Because I recognize that I'm going back to that box.
I'm going back to the place where, unless I can bring it to life within me, time is mostly dead.
Now there's all kinds of different aspects of temporality, local, distributed, universal.
The local temporality is really astonishing in the sense that
it's extremely, intimately, personal for human beings.
But I suspect this is true of all creatures, all organisms.
When a tree is standing is making tree time, but it is also making the time of that specific tree.
And this is hard for us to understand because we think of time as duration.
Time is not duration. Time is relationship. Duration may be a feature of that,
but it's not the primary or most salient feature, except in those contexts where we
decide it is and then enact that decision. And that affects the kinds of time we may
create.
Many people have addictions. Most of us have some. Some of us have very terrible addictions.
And I long ago realized that when I see a person smoking a cigarette,
whether or not they're aware of this,
they are engaged in temporalizing behavior. One smokes a cigarette maybe every
10 or 20 or 40 minutes or maybe less. But that becomes a time contributor.
It breaks up other tasks and gives the smoker some time to spend in quiet,
reflective smoking. Now, of course, not everybody is reflective when they smoke a cigarette.
But it strikes me that this addiction is a replacement for intimacy. And I once tested
this idea when I was addicted to cigarettes, as I have been numerous times throughout my life.
I just decided that I wanted things I liked in my in my mouth and in my breath.
And the thing that I liked most then was my girlfriend's kisses.
And so I just simply decided that, well, if I get to have these kisses and breathe in her breath,
maybe I can do without the cigarettes. And it turned out to be true.
So one of the things that creates addiction
is the loss or impoverishment of our inner temporalities, our roles, our behaviors, our tasks,
our relationships.
And much of what we think of as, if I use the word modernity, much of what comes to mind,
again, are ways to flatten time and to get over it, to skip it, time skipping.
And this is part of what's happening when I'm playing a video game or
doing something, some habitual behavior that, while not precisely healthy or nourishing,
or renewing, or juvenating, it nonetheless, quote, keeps me busy, unquote,
so that the pain of my isolation is not so blatantly obvious on the surface of my experience
or in my emotions or in my consciousness.
Now, clearly, once we see this, we begin to notice, ah,
there's, we can evaluate the different kinds of temporalities and the
pivots they orbit and weave with and whether we're experiencing something more like a loss or a
flattening of time and relation and role and dimensionality and meaning, the character of meaning,
or whether it's nourishing and feels good in a way we can deeply trust.
The ability to see into this is quite rare.
I've heard people talk about differences in duration.
But rarely has anyone had anything to say.
Also, there's this idea, well, we're subject to time, right?
And rarely has anyone remarked on the idea that there are different forms of time
and that we create them, in part, with our behaviors and our habits,
the cycle of desire arising, some kind of, you know, often phony,
some kind of often unfulfilling response or behavior
into our felt sense of desire, which may or may not be conscious.
I'm, I'm hung, my body's hungry long before I become conscious that I'm hungry.
By the time I become conscious that I'm hungry, I'm extremely hungry.
And, you know, my body would get really unhappy really quickly if every time I was hungry,
I fed it paper or images or pretend food. When my body's hungry, it wants actual nourishment.
And when our soul is aching for some kind of meaningful experience
and the making of experience, meaningful, meaningful formation of experience,
there's the kestrel and the hummingbirds going crazy along with the motorcycles.
And each of these are forms of time. The motorcycle fills time with noise,
painful to all living beings.
The sound of the wings of the kestrel
is so slight as to be nearly spiritual.
Time for the hummingbird is a radically different thing than time for the elephant.
One of the longest-lived mammals on earth.
But it's not merely different in duration, even though that difference in duration is an opportunity,
because now the difference in form is also an opportunity.
It's an opportunity for sharing across the between of beings in the relational
dimensions that we can invent and create.
And if we are mindful and present, these inventions and creations are likely to be rich,
multi-dimensional, inviting, deeply habitable.
When something else is going on,
then often the opposite occurs. And this is where I was going a little while ago.
The problem once we notice something like this is that we may be inclined
to become very concerned about the ways in which time is being stolen, counterfeited,
we're eating flat time, we're not making anything in time except more hunger
for more soothing around the losses we're experiencing.
And that's an important concern to have, but we shouldn't lead with it.
If we lead with that concern, we're leading with the critical faculty.
And that faculty is endlessly hungry, and rather than solve problems,
we'll often simply perpetuate its capacities to remark upon them.
Because then it keeps getting funded in consciousness, right?
And all of these things have cycles and rhythms everywhere around us.
Cycles within cycles, within rhythms.
When I'm in the garden and I'm listening to the birds,
I understand some of their signals to varying degrees.
It was the hummingbird that alerted me to the silent flight of the kestrel
that I'd certainly have missed if the hummingbird's agitated song hadn't caught my attention.
And unfortunately for us moderns, many of our experiences in the contexts within
and outside of our boxes are filled with agitating time thieves, zeitstorers,
things that wreck the harmonies that our minds and souls and bodies depend upon
for their health and joy and renewal.
And some of us are extremely sensitive to this, even though we have no idea what to do about it.
Some people are tortured merely by stimuli that they find undesirable.
The sound of traffic, the noise of machines, the blithering blather of a television turned
up far too loudly. And of course, you know, listening to a newscast, there's a rhythm.
In Ohio today, four people were found having found themselves finding things they were finding.
There's expected cadence. There's a specific music to newscasting
that we're vulnerable to partly because we're suggestible and partly because rhythms
compel us in very deep ways. We hitchhike on them. But in our culture,
something weirder happens, non-living rhythms hitchhike on us. And one of my
favorite analogies here is that if you saw someone carrying a car down the street on their back,
stopping at stop lights, making turn signals, you'd realize something's gone terribly wrong here.
Now, of course, some of us will, the moment we see a car at all, we'll realize something's gone
terribly wrong here. Because it's sort of a time-killing machine, as most of our machines are.
Think of the refrigerator, right? What's its job? Why do we use it? Well, in a rare
inversion, instead of shortening the gap between two events that we have become concerned about,
instead of squishing time and flattening time,
the refrigerator extends it. It extends the viability of the foods we put within it,
which otherwise would expire much more quickly.
And we have rhythms, each of us different,
around relating with the refrigerator. When do we put things in? When do we take things out?
When do we clean it? When do we look for things that are no longer food and have become
conceptually, anyway, compost or garbage?
I just heard the call of a hawk, and while I was listening, everything for a moment became hawk
time. And I was connected to the temporality of the hawk across the between of the atmosphere,
through the sense of hearing.
Though I could talk at great length, and I probably will again,
about the peculiarities of time, today I'm most interested in this
unexpected insight, that when we do things, we're creating new forms of time,
or we're repeating the making of familiar forms of time. And often,
partly because I guess we're survival oriented to a degree in some ways,
but we can understand how the traps were stuck in got established.
They got established because predictability
is associated with safety. But this is a problem with our language, because there are different
kinds of safety. To live trapped in a box one's entire life safe from most threats
is not much of a life. And at the conclusion of that experience,
should we look back, we may find, ah, what was I doing in this box?
Because adventure and meaningful engagement participation, these are a form of safety,
they just don't partake of the ordinary predictability that the insides of our boxes do.
And novelty is very important, not merely to human beings, but to all animals.
Nature is a swarm with novelty, living novelty.
And we need it. Just as we need adventure, meaningful roles, good companions,
our dreaming experience, wonder, unexpected learning.
The opportunity to participate in the rescue of someone or a being that is suffering or has been injured.
Again, I want to emphasize that this perspective
can collapse into polarity. Oh, these are good things to do, these are good forms of time to make,
these are bad forms of time to make, these aren't good forms. And that's okay.
But we need something deeper than that. And unfortunately, we can't necessarily just produce
it at will. Having the knowledge doesn't mean we will have the necessary
inspiration, desire to where we can and where there's opportunity to shift away
from the culturally emphasized offerings of dead time
toward the soulful and mysterious possibilities of making living time together.
Rich, meaningful, noble, and true.
And it's this aspect, the aspect that is oriented and desires is hungry for this,
that's more trustworthy than the critical one. The one that leads us into beauty, adventure,
learning, and mutual concern.
The time of my recording has come to an end now.
Sun is setting, the rhythms of life pulse symphonically around me and you.
May we together learn to listen to and recover the profound music that we make.
With our orientations, behaviors, and activities.
Thank you for joining me. I look forward to learning together again, very soon.
Just as I finished, I recognized I'd left something very important out.
When we're engaged in structured habits and behaviors that are familiar to us,
work, and tasks, and so on, we have different options for how we're in that experience.
And some of them we go through in a sort of trance-like, path disembodied state.
But when our lives depend on what we're doing, and there are many situations in which this occurs,
when I have to cut some food that is difficult or dangerous to cut,
if I am trying to balance on a very thin surface while walking,
or if I have suddenly encountered in nature some anomaly that has broken through the
layered structure of my ordinary mind and I come awake. In these situations and situations like
them, we have the capacity for what I'll refer to as active sensing. And this is a radically
different thing from iterating some tasks or behavior we're familiar with.
If I discover after mopping my floor that it's extremely slippery,
I will have to be unusually aware in order to cross it safely, or even not to mess it up.
And this experience of deep awakening of our senses that happens when we're
at risk, or perhaps performing an athletic task, and this is part of Tai Chi,
is profoundly important here because the nature of our relationship with time
transforms dramatically under these circumstances.
The first time I kiss someone that I am profoundly enchanted with,
the universe disappears, my ordinary thought is gone. The whole library of flat time
suddenly transforms into beauty. And there are occasions when it transforms into crisis,
but these two awaken our active sensing capacities and thus some people will seek crisis
as a way to overcome the inertia of our day-to-day, work-a-day, common sort of grind.
So I just wanted to take a moment to remark on the peculiar relevance
of this to many of the activities we're familiar with.
Particularly activities, there are many activities you can see this in,
even socio-cultural activities like sports. Watch a football game and you'll see immediately how
everything transforms. The audience, it's as if the sports team, the audience is somehow sharing
in the urgency of the dance of competition. And while they are sharing in this urgency,
they're having an experience almost as if the athletes are an aspect of themselves, or
the appearance of heroism charges the atmosphere.
And we have culturally many such traditions, where we get together to transform and make a different kind of time.
And in some of these forms, the context is narrow enough, its rules are narrow enough,
that to achieve excellence within them is profoundly exciting, astonishing, unexpected.
You can see that just in the example of a football game, how many of the features of what I've been
discussing today have been captured, represented, and literally represented to us in a way that allows us,
what is the word, a kind of proxied participation in the event.
There's so much more to say, and I will speak again soon about active sensing and the transformation of our minds and consciousness that occurs when we're engaged
in activities and behaviors and practices that bring us back into living time somehow, or
have been designed to represent that possibility in the hope that we may be compelled or partly satisfied enough to continue watching, spectating.
And obviously, the kinds of experience and temporalities that we have while spectating are very different from those that we have in first-person experiences.
There's more to say, but for now, I'll close the recording. I'm sure as soon as I do, I'll think of all the things that I forgot to include.
And thus be having a peculiar backward glance perspective over the time I've just spent exploring
these ideas. Thank you for joining me. Bye-bye for now.
