Hello, everybody. Welcome.
It's the day after our...
our unique Western holiday.
We're one of our unique Western holidays.
The golden sunlight of sunset is on my face.
Recalling to me a dream I had a few nights ago of a child
who could capture that golden luminance with a special herb.
He could draw it up into the end of the herb
and paint with this luminance on his face.
He was undergoing an initiation.
And that was a magical dream.
Often when it's dark, for reasons I don't understand,
which is a little bit weird because I'm pretty technically savvy.
And by the way, if any of you know the answer,
well, me, it's volunteer it in the comments.
My iPhone takes blurrier videos when it's darker,
but I noticed that it's actually using a different protocol
or format for the videos.
And it selects that automatically, apparently,
depending on ambient light and probably other variables.
I understand some of the controversy that surrounds our holidays.
We just get to choose how we relate with that controversy.
And for what purposes we relate with it.
The same is true of any controversy.
Although it seems that in our modernity,
many of the controversies are sort of inflated and trumped up, pun intended.
Invented, propagated, inflamed.
Not so that we can resolve them.
Or so that we can learn together to see and understand each other
and what it means to be human and what it means to be intelligent
and what it means to be an organism and a being in a life form
and what it means to exist.
Though that is possible for us, that remains possible.
It seems that most of what's happening is a kind of a public carnival.
Of competing projections and outrages and assertions and declarations and so on.
And as I mentioned before, and I think this is much more important
than I was able to get to the root of,
there's an aspect of our minds, most of us anyway,
that deeply objects to being told things.
In fact, it might even object to being told
that there's a part of our mind that objects to being told things.
So it might even object to us announcing its existence
or its activity or its nature, describing it.
Human representational cognition is both extremely complex
and uniquely transforming in every mind and every participant
in the transfer of information or language
or any kind of communications activity.
So, none of our theories encompass it completely.
For a theory to do that, it would have to encompass itself
and also its own origin, which would be a bit like me encompassing my mother
and she's no longer with us in the sense that we mean when we use that language.
Perhaps she is with us in other senses.
I'm cautious about controversy.
It's very clear to me that it's easy to manipulate
our interior felt sense, our felt senses,
of what is good, what is true, what is right, what is wrong,
what is moral, what is not, what is ethical, what is not.
These things are very easily manipulated
and what manipulates them generally isn't trustworthy.
In our cultures, in our societies,
the ambient soup of languaging behavior, writing, discussion
is both very low grade and intentionally misdirective.
It's manipulative.
And so, when attempting to form ideas or opinions
as individuals and as groups, and that's the part I really want to talk about, I think,
we're very vulnerable to being recruited in a sense
by not even an organization, really language by itself can recruit us.
It doesn't require that there be a human being behind it
or a group of human beings or some kind of political entity
or social entity, intellectual entity, intelligence entity, so on.
First of all, institutions don't really speak, humans do.
And so, when institutions propagate information,
there's always individuals that compose it,
but they compose it under the influence of the institution's goals, agendas, imperatives, and so on.
So, we live today in a rather terrifying situation
where, as people like Daniel Schmockdenberger have said,
the possibility of sense-making has become catastrophically inhibited.
In other words, there are vast cohorts who intend that we stop making sense
in the words of David Byrne of The Talking Heads, circa 1990-something, probably.
And apparently, we've succeeded at this agenda collectively.
If there's any kind of collective that can reasonably be referred to with the word we,
and this is a question that I find troubling, because I don't think there is,
though there is a passive we.
There's the we of those people who live in San Francisco.
There's the we of, I don't know, all human females, all human males, all human other gendered people.
There's the we of political parties, the we of religious affiliation.
There's all these kinds of we's, but those seem very fictive to me compared to the we,
the kind of a group that's formed intentionally and sincerely
with little, if any, hidden agendas or imperatives, goals.
Those are what I think of as actual we groups.
So,
in conversation last night with some of my neighbors, with whom I had the privilege of celebrating,
some controversial topics came up, and one of the participants,
I'm tempted to describe his identity politics status, but I'm not going to do that.
Because I don't really think it's important to actually,
it's distracting and disruptive in a way to do this.
He began to talk about whether or not and why the people who we hear speaking,
and even ourselves when we speak, whether we're being intelligent or whether we're doing something else,
like what's the motivation of our speaking?
And he said something important that I've heard echoed by another friend.
He said that there are a variety of reasons why people speak,
but the two most common are to seek approval from a group to feel that we belong
and that we are seen and appreciated by those with whom, you know,
those nearby with whom we want to be seen, by whom we want to be seen and appreciated.
And then there's hierarchy establishment, sort of pecking order behaviors,
and where those are fluid, they are nuanced,
and where they are crude or clumsy, they are tyrannical, right?
They're like domineering or directly manipulative or threatening.
And I thought that was very interesting because even when I'm making my videos
or when I'm writing an essay or something, there's some of both of those behaviors going on in myself, right?
In a way, I'm seeking my own approval.
I want to see, like, do I actually approve of the things I can think and say?
Does the bigger self, does my soul, does my essence feel happy and joyful having said or written some material?
If I read it or listen to it later, do I feel pleased with what I've accomplished
or do I think something else?
Do I feel critical?
Do I feel embarrassed?
Do I feel chagrined, right?
And it's funny this word, embare, asked, it's so obvious.
My ass is laid bare publicly, which is something that would be, you know,
someone once asked me, what would embarrass you?
And I said, literally having my ass bared, you know, under the wrong circumstances would embarrass me.
I guess there's only certain people in certain situations that we want to be able to see our asses.
Or maybe never, I don't know.
So yeah, there's some hierarchical stuff and there's some approval-seeking stuff.
That's not the only thing going on.
Some of us are highly motivated to develop new perspectives and learn
and discover new things that we didn't know before
or have things that we had previously discovered enhanced or corrected or advanced.
Those are also motivations.
But in common social situations, a lot of what's going on,
particularly by men, though women have their own way of dealing with this
and other genders may have a plethora of ways of dealing with this,
there's a lot of peacocking, right?
There's hierarchy signaling.
And as I said, when it's subtle, then it's nuanced and relatively, hopefully relatively natural.
It's playful.
But when it's not subtle or it becomes overt, then it's domineering.
And so what the gentleman at the table was saying last night was
when people are espousing their opinions about things like Republican politics
or Democratic politics or liberal politics or progressive politics
or vaccination or non-vaccination or COVID or gender politics
or whatever the controversy might be, they're not attempting to be rational.
What they're actually doing is they're signaling about cohort membership.
They're signaling which clade they belong to by espousing a particular opinion or perspective,
often using language that they themselves picked up from the media or other similar signallers.
And he gave the example that at one time in history,
it was absolutely anathema for Republicans to say anything positive about the use of marijuana.
Now, of course, weed is an addictive drug.
And while it's probably egregious to compare it to heroin,
it's incredibly potent and profoundly common,
and it changes how we live as human beings, especially if we use it regularly,
like any addictive drug does, like alcohol, like Fox News,
like thinking that our humanity revolves around our political party.
Any kind of addictive drug can fuck us up really badly and render us incoherent.
Perhaps one of the deadliest and most addictive of these drugs is money.
Or even more addictive power, power over other people,
which money is an expression of, or a derivative of.
So this was very interesting.
He essentially was saying, you know, on the common,
many people aren't trying to be intelligent or learn.
They're signaling for approval and to demonstrate clade membership,
which cohort they belong to, who are their people and who are the other people.
And also, they want to be seen as desirable and interesting and having the right idea,
as if there were an idea that was right about whatever the topic may be,
with the people that they're with or against the people that they're against.
And another friend said something pretty similar.
He's like, look, I don't know why you expect people to behave intelligently
or to speak intelligently.
That's no part of their agenda.
They're actually, when they open their mouths,
what they're doing doesn't even really necessarily have a lot to do with the topic at hand.
It has more to do with negotiating tribal membership hierarchy and approval ratings.
And if you look at social media, you can see the worst horrible examples of this kind of thing.
And some fairly amazing examples too, right?
It's not all bad, but there's a lot of extremely lowbrow behavior
and some astonishingly advanced behavior mixed in there.
So I thought all this was pretty interesting since I like to think,
there's a dangerous phrase, I like to think,
certain things that may not resemble what humans actually do very much.
And maybe even I've got a confused idea about what I'm doing a lot of the time,
because I am a human being and like other human beings,
I'm not immune to the approval or esteem of other people
and particularly other people who I find compelling for whatever reason,
whether they're attractive or intelligent or unique or profoundly empathic or magical
or enchanting or even domineering sometimes.
Occasionally I let one of those monsters into my playground
for reasons I don't entirely understand, but it does happen once in a while.
So, just some food for thought about what's going on in the public
sociom, the cognisium, the ambient communications waters, right?
A lot of what's going on is toxic because its intentions aren't those that are being presented.
The actual intentions differ from those that we might hope for or think to be relevant
and have a lot to do with a kind of diffuse modern tribalism,
who are my people, who are the people I'm neutral towards,
who are the people who are my opponents or enemies.
And there's a huge problem in the United States with the kind of us and them dialectic that's been going on
I mean, since before the United States was a colonial nightmare.
Yeah, there's a strong us and themism.
It's evident in the structure of bipolar sporting events
and it could be part of why particular forms of violence are more common in our country than in many others.
Having some awareness of these matters, we are then endowed with the possibility of negotiating them gracefully.
Without awareness of them, then we will probably enact behavior and communications patterns unconsciously,
that match what we're used to and the sort of flavor of the day of the cohorts to which we imagine we belong
or to which we would like to feel we have achieved valid membership.
Right.
There's a super topic in the background here, which is authorization.
Before I can even speak anything at all, my mind undergoes a variety of complex transformations
that involve an authorization network so that the stuff that doesn't pass muster doesn't come out of my mouth.
Right.
And social authorization, communal authorization, is an even richer and more complex topic
and one deeply related to the subtopic, which I'm just sketching briefly this evening.
I don't have a deliverable synopsis.
I think just introducing the idea that much of our communications behavior
isn't as much about the content as we'd like perhaps to think most of the time
and is much more oriented toward cohort signaling, recruitment behavior,
conflict, establishment and prosecution, the establishment and prosecution of ideas with which we conflict,
things we're not willing to consider or believe or talk about or learn about or explore,
which involves but is not primarily composed of topics that are off limits
for our, you know, the clades to which we imagine ourselves to belong.
But there's one place and one people to whom I fundamentally belong
and I don't have to advertise with them and I don't have to conflict with them.
We have natural harmony, synonymy and it's the living beings and perhaps also the dead
and perhaps also the unborn.
But all the living beings and the living places, it's not an argument out here.
There's no argument in those colors.
It's not a political issue.
It has nothing to do with identity politics or any other kind of politics
except perhaps that our human addiction to objects and machines influences the color palette
in a way that any intelligent organism could understand much more deeply than any language could possibly be understood.
Any organism sensitive to light.
The politics of light and relation are not political.
They're at once astonishingly non-ordinary and the stuff of every day, every moment, every place.
There's a vast and spacious liberty there and perhaps that's the place where we as human beings
can find true commonality and communion.
Thank you for joining me.
Bye-bye for now.
Thank you.
