Hello everybody. Welcome. So grateful to have you all with me. And I want to make a shout
out to one of my supporters Cameron. So grateful for your support, your interest, your enthusiasm.
So it is the evening. The moon is waning. We had bizarre media circuses around blue super
moons and so on. And the funny thing about this is I remember none of that from my childhood.
There was no such thing as a super moon. Frankly, I'm not even clear what the definition refers
to. That's on me. But I have been watching the moon and the sky at night. And it's incredible.
If there's anything that just overtly gives the lie to the incredible poverty of human knowledge,
it's the night sky. We have no idea what that is. And we have models and toys about it. Most of
them are mechanical. The one thing you'd never want is to have a mechanical map of your origin,
of your family, of your loved ones. Now there are exceptions. Under certain medical and sometimes
psychological situations, a mechanical map can be lifesaving and can enable us to change time
so that death doesn't come now. It comes later. And you'll notice that most of our technologies
change time. But the night sky asks us questions that the modern people have long been too timid to
pursue. I was listening to Eric Weinstein, who I must admit I'm a fan of. Doesn't mean I sign up
for the whole menu. This is one of his phrases. You go into a restaurant and meeting with any kind
of prodigy or person who's having insight who can bring us to insight. You don't have to sign up
for the whole menu. You don't go into the restaurant and say, I'll have everything. And it's the same
with me. You don't have to agree with me. We're not actually here to determine whether we agree or
not. I would hope that what we're here for together right now is the possibility of seeing better. And
there's so many astonishing little toys we can use to remember what it's like to experience actual
insight. That, aha, finally, I see moment where everything we've ever thought before is suddenly
transformed. And I would argue that our minds are born and made to ride waves of that kind of insight.
But we were trapped in a very peculiar situation. And it's a situation we can gain insight into
together whenever we agree. But this is our mission. And, you know, it's not as dangerous as a war
mission. But the way the humans treat it, you'd think it was radioactive. Our people, and again, we
have to think of people as a topology. There are mountains of insight and prodigy and wonder and
memory. And there's large valleys of you and me and the common people. And each one of us is a
mountain in a topology too. So I'm not saying all the people are a certain way. What I'm saying is
the institutional stories that we're told about the most basic features of our experience,
consciousness, organisms, time space, light, the universe, stars, planets, galaxies, nebula,
quasars, pulsars, black holes, white holes, dark matter, dark energy, electrons, photons,
neutrons, quarks. The stories we are told about these phenomena, and particularly the stuff we
encounter directly, space, time, light, organisms. The institutional stories of, quote, what those
things are, are so wrong that if you merely entertain them, your capacity for insight collapses. It
just goes away. It's like trying to get a drink of water in the middle of a house fire. It's not
there. It ain't happening. If you get the fundamental basics so reductively, mechanistically,
explicitly wrong, if you make those first moves so badly that it becomes impossible to make further
useful moves or nearly so, then you're modern. And none of the people want to be blind this way.
If we could come to them and show them somehow in a way they can experience and understand that the
actual nature of phenomena is nothing like our human stories. It does not resemble them. When we
look to the skies in the day or the night, because we see different universes in the day and the
night, the skies are alive with not just questions and clues, but cues, urgings, missions, memories,
but they don't fit into representational cognition as we moderns practice it. They are from outside
that whole system. That system is a very strange sub-process running in time, space, in human minds
and networks of them. Our thoughts, whatever they might be, they are surely not what's going on. The
tree is not a tree. The mouse is not a mouse. Its actual identity is so profound that if we could
but glimpse a few features of it, our knowledge would be reborn. Our capacity for insight would
return to us and our potentials for the most of us that isn't human. Now it's funny when I began
this recording, I had, somewhat like a comedian, I had a riff and the riff orbited the idea of the most
dangerous question. What's the most dangerous question we could ask? And in a way, all the dangerous
questions, much of their primary danger is if we even ask the questions, it will change everything
we've ever thought we knew. And if we encounter a question like that, we're faced with the same
problem that humans are faced with if, as a species in general, if non-human intelligences from
time, space, or the sky or beyond are in contact with us. We're facing the same problem. What's
the problem? The problem is 8,000 years of highly invested insanity, ignorance, slavery, torture,
prison hearing, obliteration of the ecologies. We're so deeply invested in all of those behaviors as a
species that anything that would powerfully draw that into question should be off the table. And we
have the same problem as individuals when we face really exciting questions, because they threaten our
entire thought history. And so one could rather than turning forward into the liberation that the
question is posing, and this I would recommend we almost always do, but rather than turning forward
like Lot in the Bible story of his wife as they're leaving, I believe it's Sodom,
and Sodom is being destroyed by something from the sky. She looks back and turns to stone.
And there's a parable there, and the parable is that when faced with actual insight, if we turn
around and become worried about our previous actions, thoughts, adventures, mistakes, addictions,
so forth, whatever, if we turn around and become very concerned with what is now behind us in the
face of the shining insight of this dangerous question, then we're strapped. We will reject the
question. We will stay with the old habits. We will be frozen in a sense in our own past.
The most dangerous questions. So the sky is actually calling us.
It's better than if you were getting a personal phone call from the sky.
It's made. So now I have to be careful because I will encounter my own snare if I'm not careful,
the snare of explicit identity. When we think about insight, what we will find is if we have
a way to experience insight regularly. And hopefully, perhaps some of you listeners
have had an experience or two of insight during reading my work or listening to these recordings,
and I absolutely honor and celebrate that. It's what I'm here for. I'm trying to see better.
And that's not a very dangerous thing. That doesn't necessarily lead to war.
Or aggression or anything. To get people on a mission to see better together,
that's a pretty safe mission.
It's safer than most of the missions we sign up for by far. So I just want to ring this little bell
of, you know, it's possible for us to get together and try to remember our origins, our natures,
our potentials, our intelligences, our unique personal and communal skills,
abilities, potentials that can be developed that are otherwise invisible to us.
And this is supposed to be the mission of our governments, and it's supposed to be the mission
of religion. I'm not saying no parts of those work, some of them do work, some parts of some things.
Some of them are pretty amazing. Advaita Vedanta is one easy-to-hand example of something that I
actually is intelligent. Ann goes after insight and really lives up to these questions. Where
do we originate? What is life, birth, death, dreaming? What are bodies? All these questions.
What are organisms? Why is there something like the strange, continuous world of our waking world
experience? Why is that opposed to the insightfully ambiguous? Hey, good to see you.
Good to see you too, man. Have a good walk, huh? Thank you.
The insightfully ambiguous or re-ambiguating intelligences of our dreaming mind,
which isn't to, you know, slight the waking mind. It's just really, really a dangerous thing when
it becomes, when it defects from its own origins in what I might call non-ordinary
intelligence. And I think we're made of that. But insight isn't concerned with the facts. It's
not going to just slap a frame on something, do a couple reductive, you know, throwaways,
excisions, excerptions. Oh, well, we'll just look at this quality. The tree's made of wood.
Well, okay. But which feature of the tree's composition has more precedence? Wood or time
space? The tree's made of time space. And, you know, the humans are unlikely to go in that direction
for all kinds of reasons, but mainly because they find their little catalogs of terms and definitions
hypnotically compelling. Of course, I see these things around me. Of course, I know the humans
call them trees. But I do not presume they are trees. They are certainly not some tag of four
letters. An interestingly formed tag, by the way. But I'll leave that as a secret.
T-R-E-E. Yeah, it's almost silly. The structure of our spelled word.
So, insight, we're not here to throw stuff away. We're not trying to figure out what is the case.
And, when we become concerned with what is the case, and there are some, you know, layers of our
human experience where this matters, do I have my shoes on the wrong feet? Unfortunately, that
metaphor is almost explicitly perfect for what we've done with knowledge, because there's something
beyond knowledge and insight is beyond knowledge. Insight is like a substance that partly dissolves
the structure of our habits so that new perspectives, understandings, abilities arise where previously
we had perhaps three. Chop down the tree, appreciate the tree, water the tree.
So, insight isn't concerned with what is the case, and when we become so fascinated with whether
something is, quote, true or not, and that becomes the arbiter of our value system, our
intelligence is offline. We have collapsed 10 manifolds of possibilities to one, a single value
system. Is it true that that's a tree? Well, it's true in English, but is it true with a capital T?
No, whatever that thing might be or represent or both, and it's more than just
a distinct object. In fact, it's mostly not a distinct object. It's mostly an expression of
history, time, space, biology, the sun, the moon, the earth, the living place it arises in. It's
got all of these dimensions of identity that are easily dismissed by thinking of it as a separate
thing. So, there are situations in which factfulness is useful. Generalizations about facts,
particularly about humans and animals, are dangerous. They're sort of the opposite of a
dangerous question. They're projecting specific probabilities over a cohort, like selling life
insurance, for example. Those are dangerous because they mislead us about the nature of
identity itself, and they also mislead us by causing us to clumsily collapse
a manifold of 50 different things, minimal, a minimum, to three, and then presume that we've
succeeded in understanding what we're looking at. It's like the opposite of insight.
Useful in some situations, but also lethally blinding.
Often, when you hear people use the word we, we need to have an actual election in this country.
But that we doesn't exist. It's a putative we.
It's a presumptive we, we who live in the United States and call ourselves Americans.
But that's more of a linguistic category than an actual union. There's no actual union there.
It's a representational union. And we can easily confuse those with what is actually going on
and become extremely confused. The hope of insight now becomes a distant, you know,
pipe dream. So insight isn't concerned. It's not as concerned with facts, though it can
utilize them and project some. It's concerned with perspective.
It's concerned with finding a more useful perspective than the ones you've tried before.
And really the most dangerous question is the question that causes insight.
If we are willing to sustain it in thought, concern, consciousness, purpose for a few moments.
Our catalogs and lexicon are very compelling. They seem to be able to encompass
most of our waking world experience, however clumsily. I can say the name of anything I can point at
with few exceptions. But when I say the name, I become very confused.
And I am no longer seeing with insight, I am seeing through the lenses of knowledge.
And strangely, here's a really dangerous question.
Is most of what we call knowledge a sophisticated game of producing lies
so compelling that we forget insight altogether and grip the lie with a hand
of our mind, pronounce it, declare it, argue over it, fight, kill, die over it,
wipe the world out, whatever. Everything the humans as a species are generally doing.
Evening. Nice to see you.
Now there are different kinds of knowledge. For example, the knowledge that allows me to
proprioceptively engage my body in movement as I'm doing right now on my walk.
That's not the kind of knowledge I'm talking about. And in fact,
that form of knowledge is rich with insight because it's physical and it's biological.
There is endless insight in merely paying attention to the body.
But I'm not really paying attention. I know how to walk by habit. And it requires, you know,
it's a little bit like driving a car but slower. I gotta be present or I'll step on things, stumble
over things, whatever, make mistakes. But that's not the knowledge I mean. The knowledge I mean
is the representational kind. The kind where we use tokens in language to refer to things being
situations, actions, phenomena, behavior, nouns and verbs and so on. Adjectives.
I say, for example, the garbage can I see is brown. It is a true statement in language.
But it's only true with human eyes. With other eyes, it could be other colors and who knows what
color it actually is. See the problem with what is the case? If I go after what is the case
about the color of the garbage can, I have to throw everything away and try and produce a one
object universe and then try to find the most primordial quality according to my lexicon that
I have to work with. Or my capacity for insight. Maybe both. Usually most people are trapped in
the lexicon. Evening. So we just keep producing the derivatives that the inhibitions of our lexicon
demand of us. And those are but the tiniest portion of what we're capable of even with
representational thought. Even with representational language, lexicon's catalogs, identity trees,
the structures that underlie our minds, or at least our thinking minds.
No, our capacity for insight is probably infinite. Our general experience of it
is uncommon for most of us. Now some of us read or we seek, we're curious. We seek out
insight, knowledge, understanding. Perhaps we watch podcasts with people who can educate our minds.
I do. I love that. It's very nourishing to me.
So, but even we who pursue insight live in a milieu. And the milieu, it's quite difficult to
hold the membrane. Right? Especially today with electronic media. It's very difficult to hold
the membrane. And our minds are not merely our own. They participate in networks of minds.
There are networks of human minds. Even if you don't have an internet, there were networks of
minds before we had machines. And so whatever's going on in the network leaks through to us.
And we have little or no language to try to understand it with or cope with it or help each
other cope with it. I'm hopeful that in these conversations, we can begin to develop some
that would allow us, maybe even encourage us or empower us to explore these features of our
humanity. One of the most dangerous questions is simply this. Do human minds form networks
of a form we've not considered?
Right? We consider the physical network, transmission of language, cultural artifacts,
traditions, behaviors, so on. Everything's very contagious in humans. But what I'm proposing
is that there's a primordial network that is decidedly not merely physical,
but doesn't require two people to meet or know each other in order to transmit
intelligence between them. This is what I am supposing. This is a very dangerous question.
Because if it were true, everything we ever thought would be wrong.
Mathematics comes from the discoveries of mathematics are generated in the network
and they localize in someone like Einstein from this perspective, which I think is insightful.
Memes spread non-electronically, thrips which are aggressively reproductive ideas, ideologies
and perspectives, also behaviors and technologies. They propagate wildly in the human network
and they certainly propagate in the physical dimension. These cars I'm looking at are perfect
examples of them. And so too the newscast I see on television. It's basically pure thrisp, no insight,
structured lying, highly structured lying. Almost the sign of something we may want to
seek out to understand. It's almost like a crime scene. And there's all these fascinating little
clues in the behavior and history of the humans that have to do with the nature of the network
and what happens when problems arise in it. When I began this recording,
the reason I thought of the most dangerous question
was because I'd been listening to an Air Force soldier who was one of the witnesses
at the incident at Rendlesham Air Base in I think Suffolk.
Circa high. Circa like 1982.
May have the year on on that one.
And
what took place there is something we don't know.
And in this case, it's not so much a matter of knowing what it was
because whatever it was probably doesn't fit in our world image at all.
Rather in this case, it had more to do with knowing what it wasn't. Because what it wasn't
is anything we have authoritative knowledge about or placeholders for in language.
It was a non ordinary event if the world images that are lexicons prescribed to us
is real or trustworthy. So in a sense, it was an event that would destroy the foundations
of our lexicons. And anything that does that destroys the foundations of identity.
We literally don't in such a case know what to be
in relation to something that we truly don't understand.
Now the problem in Rendlesham isn't actually a monumental anomaly from outside human lexicons.
We know, we can know, even without insight, fairly simple things.
These beings appear to be using something resembling a highly advanced technology or array of them.
And they are not human.
It's not even entirely clear that they're simply physical.
What the Air Force soldier reported seeing was not something that fits in our lexicons at all.
From one perspective, from another perspective, it fits in our lexicons if we're willing to include
in our lexicons a feature that we mostly don't.
Which is non-human intelligences that we ourselves can conceivably interact with
and may have some relationship to. Lost part of my recording there, so I'm going to try to
recover it. All right, so the humans, when we use this word intelligence we can mean many
different things. And if we're careful we can use it adeptly. But when we think of the
intelligence of our species in a general way, which is a problem, because at the species level
we are anything but intelligent. So usually what we mean is representationally intelligent,
capable of forming conceptual maps and physical objects that represent advances quote unquote
the maps gave us in producing devastation mostly. But the devastation is really compelling
and looks like houses and cars and soybean fields and what used to be the Amazon and so
forth. So what we usually mean when we use this word intelligence to speak of our species,
this is what we mean. We mean representationally intelligent. But all of the other organisms
around us are profoundly astonishingly intelligent. But the domain of their intelligence is physical,
relational, and probably for other things we don't even have language for. That if we were
forced to we might just say it's spiritual. And we probably wouldn't be far from the mark, but
what we mean by that is backwards because most likely all the intelligences are one intelligence
first and only appear as distinct. So they never defect from relation. There are no
omnicidal biological intelligences on earth that just kill everything they touch, which ours is.
So that doesn't actually look intelligent, does it? I would argue our species is not intelligent
really at all except in the sense of being able to make really compelling maps, models, concepts,
mathematics, and so forth that allow us to produce technologies we are vastly too ignorant
to enact with any degree of safety or wisdom or insight. So again we don't look intelligent.
Even though a given human being may be a profusion of intelligences,
many of which are quite insightful and don't go around killing everything and so forth.
So you can find the intelligence in our bodies, you can find it in the potentials of our minds,
but mostly what you find in our societies is something largely resembling the opposite. And
there's, you know, arguments against this. It was a lot worse 4,000 years ago, okay, granted maybe
in many places. But what worse means is different, like it can't actually be a lot worse
unless those people had the capacity to end the planet, which our people do have.
And this is exactly the kind of people you don't want having that ability. So what I'm trying
to get at is when humans think of intelligences, they usually think about ours, they don't think
about the biorelational intelligences, we're not trained to do that. And even if we're introduced
to the topic, it's a very preschool conversation about the mechanics of it, right, the mechanical
features of nature. Because I guess that's what we're hoping to manipulate and create new disasters
by doing so. So we can have a placeholder in our lexicons. If time space is intelligence,
or what if it's something that is to intelligence what stars are to light,
what if time space produces intelligence almost as a side effect of everything else it is and is
doing and being, who it is being, right? We never think about this question. Even in the religions,
some people might look to the sky and see the being that dwells in unity.
They might see that as its body. But most people don't. Very few people do, at least comparatively.
So if we have the placeholder non-human intelligences, it won't obliterate our lexicons
overtly. Really what we have is a long history of the military in the United States, particularly,
defaming, lying about, siopping the people,
creating, introducing hoaxes on purpose, persecuting people, prosecuting people,
silencing people about this topic. And it's not just the United States, by a long shot.
Every country, with very few exceptions, that has any interest in the phenomena,
has the same policy. Why?
There's the sound of intelligence, almost as if the bird is answering.
The big secret isn't that we're not alone.
Wow. Squashes.
And one of the most dangerous questions is,
what is it we see in the sky when we encounter
what we refer to as UFOs, when people encounter what appears to be beings from craft?
And when these things happen, there are very bizarre side effects.
It's time changes, identity goes haywire, you can't tell what anything is.
Your mind itself is in some kind of a state that's half hypnotic and half in awe and half in terror,
three halves, I know. But humans are capable of that kind of confusion.
So it's certainly not anything from our lexicons. And normally when we think about aliens or
whatever, we think about people in spaceships from other planets. And the primary fear there
is the fear of our own insanity magnified in a highly technological species.
It's hard for humans, quaw humans to imagine that there might be actually intelligent others
in time space. And some of them might not be merely physical or merely biological.
Like whatever some percentage of the phenomenon represents, some slice of the pie,
where we're actually talking about things that look like vehicles doing stuff, sometimes with humans,
sometimes to humans, we don't know what it is. But we're also unwilling to admit,
not that we don't know, but that there's no reason to suspect that we've ever been alone here.
We've just been told that over and over again. And we've been lied to about it over and over again.
And so, you know, people will have plebeian questions like, well, why don't they just come
and show up and introduce themselves? Well, they probably have. But not to us, not to the people
themselves, to groups of humans, to families, to schoolyards, to Air Force bases.
But those questions are kind of silly for a lot of different reasons.
One of the most dangerous questions we can ask is, what if we're not merely human?
What if we're mostly
transcendent, and we're trapped in this tiny little corner of our nature and our intelligence
by ideas so ridiculous and yet so compelling that they can capture thousands of years of human
civilization? Where do those come from? Why are we vulnerable that way? These are dangerous
questions. The best kind of dangerous questions. But if we're mostly not human, and I will argue
that this is completely true. In this case, I'm actually saying something that I am promoting
to the status of a fact, right? I'm collapsing the manifold.
If we only think of the earth, and this is how humans usually think,
they only think of the earth. They think the earth is alone. It's the only one. It's our one.
Everything that's important is happening here. There's probably nothing going on out there in
time space, which is completely nonsensical. But if we only think of the earth,
most of us is organism, and organism is all the organisms. It's not one.
So first, even if we just have no transcendental thoughts, no spiritual thoughts, no thoughts
about origin, and we think, oh, it's just a local mechanical accident that there's life on this world,
99% of us is organism. 75% of us is animal. Those aren't human.
Those are superpositions over our humanity, and they are vast, open superpositions.
Then we are animal. Then we are human. Then we are cognitively human.
And so that little cognitive part is probably less than 1% of what we are.
But most of us will be pretty much trapped in there most of the time while we're awake.
Why? There's a dangerous question. So why would the governments be so motivated
to lie and hide things and be effectively duplicitous with the humans in general? Well,
in contact with or recovery of anything resembling a technology from non-human intelligences
would literally invent a new species of human. There would be a speciation event
going on right now. There are humans in possession of technology from the
monumentally distant future of mankind, perhaps 10,000 years, a million years,
10 million years ahead of us if we're measuring in that way where time is a linear and there's
an ahead of us. But effectively anyone in possession of knowledge, devices, models,
concepts, math, physics, devices, materials, and bodies. Those people would represent a
new species of human. This is a form of power humans, modern humans have never had.
There's nothing more potent or authoritatively dominating
than being the branch of the government that might be, for example, in possession of downed
alien vehicles. And vehicle is probably the wrong word for them, but I'm just using the
familiar pointer. So any faction in possession of that technology for the military, it's pure
asymmetric advantage. It's the most important thing in the universe. It's more important than
governments, humans, ecologies, futures, money, politics, religion. It's the most important thing.
So one of the most dangerous questions we can ask is or I should say are
some of the most dangerous questions we can ask orbit this phenomena. Why are they lying? And
they are lying. They have been lying straight up no chaser for many decades.
Now of course, if there are actually intelligent non-human others capable of relating in some
way directly with us, and I will argue that there certainly are, and that the evidence is all around
us in biology, these are non-human intelligences, they are contactable by human minds, human hearts,
human passions, human wonder, human awe, human curiosity, the tree, the housefly, the skunk,
the raccoon, the whale, the dolphin, the octopus, the wasp, the blue jay, the hawk, the owl, the dove,
the seagull, these are intelligences and they are contactable. We've been told they aren't,
we've been told all kinds of nonsense that mostly has to do with lying like crazy in language.
Good evening. Sorry, I'm just going past some basketball stuff going on here.
Hmm.
Our lexicons have roots and one of them is universe. In fact, that's sort of the super
container or most primordial root. Whatever we think the universe is and contains actually
tells us what to be, right? It's almost like there's a transcription code in the concept universe.
We transcribe it and it tells us what we are. We are human beings on earth circa 2023 and
language users and so forth, animals.
So if we were to encounter sky beings or time beings or sky time beings or
you know, multi-dimensional beings or beings who
compose bodies, inhabit them with consciousness, go on missions, dissolve those bodies, go back
to straight consciousness or transcendence in this case, then that changes every game and all
of the thoughts we ever had about the identity of anything will be drawn into question by the
open admission. Yes, this is going on. It's 40 different things. We've looked at these 20 of
them. We've learned some things about it. You know, we have craft, we have bodies, we have
technologies, we have materials and we probably have intelligence, right? Conceptual maps and
models, explanations of phenomena that are from literally from the future of our species.
You know, you can see if you just walk into a room in your house where
you have television screens and computers, right? You just look around. You've got various objects
there, right? Forks and knives and dishes and plates and chairs and furnishings and so forth.
And some of those things are fairly advanced, but compared to the television or your smartphone,
you're literally part of the room is literally in the future.
And that part changes time. The main function of those devices is to change temporalities,
to make different modes of time, to shorten time, to mimic time, to replace time, to get rid of time,
to speed up time, to slow down time. Oven speeds it up.
The refrigerator slows it down. Guns cause it to collapse. Lifelines go to zero due to bullets.
So there are factions of humans
that clearly have been in possession of
probably at least partly non-ordinary objects, vehicles, bodies.
For many years and have studied them, it's a different species. There will be a speciation
event around that one thing, whether or not it happens today or in 10 years or 30.
And those people are the wrong people to be in contact with whatever might be out there.
Whatever certainly is out there is a better way of saying it.
There aren't like hundreds of thousands of written reports about phenomena that doesn't exist.
So the old lie of there's no there there, there's nothing to see, go home, that lie is over with.
Many people may continue to believe it. I don't think it will serve them very well.
But yeah, that lie is over with. We've been encountering
advanced intelligences of some form or forms, probably for thousands of years,
maybe hundreds of thousands of years. Most likely we've never been alone.
We just don't know how to knock on the door. We don't remember how to knock on the door.
And maybe we're starting to remember now.
But the sky,
it isn't any of the things we think it is. And what it is is so transcendent to our thinking
that if we could get just the slightest degree of insight, everything we know and can do,
all that we can be or become and all that we have been will transform.
And what I'm trying to say is the door to liberty from the traps that we face,
it's the hilarious problem we're made of the door and we keep looking for it outside ourselves.
We are so much more than merely human. And it doesn't mean we're gods or, you know,
hello. Hi. Yes. Yeah.
We're made of what we're looking for, but our language and concept maps
say denigrating things about it. It's crazy to think that way. Yeah, it's true, physical reality
is very compelling. But whatever the Air Force soldiers saw was not a macro level phenomena.
Again, time changes, sound changes, light changes, force changes, everything changes.
And it clearly represents the intrusion of something transcendental to the macro world.
I'm not saying it's quantum physics. I'm not saying it's stringy. I'm saying it's not merely macro,
if anything is. It's not classical physics. It's not classical biology. It's something beyond our
categories.
And probably it's something from outside linear time.
We don't have a lot of language about that. Not too much at all. Maybe we have
gods, aliens, spirits and demons, angels, jinn, genies.
And most of the humans think, oh, those are just superstitious ideas. I've never
encountered one. There's no such thing. Well, good luck. You better have something that leads
to the outer space of identity. Otherwise, your lexicon will strangle your intelligence
down to something that it should never collapse into, except maybe to hammer a nail.
And hopefully never to shoot a gun.
Some of the most dangerous questions are questions about
the ways in which we're not merely human. And these are some of the most important questions
to chase and remember, recover the answers to in a kind of an amnesis, right? A
recollective flow of memory and insight and perspective that I would argue our minds were
born in. And most of us, we were slave collared shortly after birth with
representational cognition, which I don't want to get rid of and is very useful.
Unfortunately, the implementations that prevail among groups of humans are catastrophically,
leafily, stupidifying.
Whatever we are, it was never merely human. We are modes of time space. Time space makes
these little things called humans of itself. And then within time space,
it acquires those qualities, right? One could say, if there are humans on earth,
time space is humanly. And it's the same as true of every organism I see, this ivy,
the wasp, the beetle, each of them, they are modes of time space. So they are not merely insects.
They are not merely plants. They are not merely biologies. There's a ladder. And for some reason,
there's a ladder that goes from origin to identity. And for some reason, the humans snip that ladder
off at what's mechanically provable. What a bizarre thing to do. Why would that happen?
One answer is, it may be that our minds originally developed in constant contact
with non-human intelligences. All day, every day, all humans had
companions in the sky, so to speak, that taught them
that in a way, parented their intelligence. And in this model that I like to play with,
at some point, there was either some kind of an accident,
there was some kind of a war, or there was some kind of a catastrophe. Maybe all three,
and two other things I haven't included here yet.
And effectively, the signal went away.
The ambient signal, the sort of Wi-Fi of time space, disappeared over a very short period
of time for reasons we could pursue and remember, but for now must primarily speculate on.
Good evening.
The most dangerous questions are questions that would
cause us to insightfully transform our relationship with concepts, particularly ideas of identity.
That's where the primary problems
seem to gather together and form a tangled mess. But please be assured, most of you as a human
never was, never will be. I don't know what all the features of it are, but most of you
isn't local to this body. Most of you isn't local to this time. You're not merely a biology,
you're not merely an organism, an animal, or a human being. Good evening.
I would love to hear your feedback about these ideas, and particularly your questions,
and it would be really exciting if you would post in the comments
some of your candidates for the most dangerous question. I would really enjoy that.
So grateful to have had this time together this evening, and I look forward to learning to see
better together somehow, sometime, very soon. Wise ways and all blessings to you. Bye-bye for now.
