Hey everybody. Thank you for joining me. I'm out on a walk, and there's probably going
to be a little mic noise, and maybe some other noise, including my labored breathing as I
climb some hills. So I was talking with my father today, and he was asking me about the
behavior of a bird near one of their windows. Apparently for maybe a week, a few days ago now,
the bird was hanging out near this window and very frequently sort of fluttering up to the window,
and doing this repetitively. And I've seen this behavior before. I'm pretty sure it's
unique to male birds, and it's not merely unique to male birds. This is part of the
problem that we have with our categories and concepts. Our language, or rather our relationship
of language, inclines us to treat the signs we use, the words, labels, in very deceptive ways.
And this is particularly a problem with qualities, because qualities transform depending on who's
looking, why, where, what the context is, and so on. And if you don't know much about male birds,
then the behavior could seem very puzzling. But one of the things I think it's important to keep in
mind is it's not just a problem with male birds, or the issue doesn't relate only to male birds,
and it doesn't relate to male birds in general over time. I joked with my father about an old
original series Star Trek episode in which Spock, the supposedly emotionless human computer,
or Vulcan computer, hominid computer, becomes enraged, and slowly it's revealed that Spock
has a problem. A problem that will kill him if it isn't resolved quickly. Spock has the blood
fever, known in the vernacular of this series as the Pon Far. And effectively it means the
deaster return to Vulcan, his planet, to mate with a female Vulcan whose parents had conspired with
his to commit them to future marriage. The episode has plenty of interesting ephemera that I'll leave
alone for the moment. But the male bird, though we can't know exactly what's going on with it,
we can only hypothesize. Unless of course we're capable of entering the mind of the bird directly,
which, well, we might think that's impossible. I'd like to suggest that it isn't. And in fact,
an experience like that might be far more natural to us as human beings than the common
experiences we have of thinking about ourselves, the world, situations, histories, futures,
problems, threats, opportunities, and so on. Before I continue, just so I don't lose this
thread, perhaps I can return to it later. I was talking with someone the other day,
and I remarked that the capacity to be concerned for the world, or to even have any idea what's
going on, much the outside one's local or national context, and even within it, that
that possibility is brand spanking new. It's probably only been reasonably plausible for a human to
think about the world for maybe, I don't know exactly, let's say five to eight human lifetimes.
I'm not sure how many human lifetimes there have been flat human lifetimes since we became
homosapiens. I'm not even entirely clear that the idea of homosapiens muchly captures what we are,
how we are, but I'm going to guess wildly that it's probably been about 10,000 generations,
at least, meaning if we measure in flat human lifetimes, maybe we're, well let's see, I need to do the
math here and I don't have the data, but if our species was say 200,000 years old, you can divide
by probably about 40, and you'll get how many flat generations there were. Now what I mean by flat
is just a placeholder to remind us that on earth now, one year in flat terms, there's about 7.8
billion human life years, one year, because there's about 7.8 billion human beings, each with unique
world lines, and there's some question about whether time, as we think about it, is much like what's
actually going on, because at least from the perspective of relativity, temporality appears to be local to
world lines, and each human being is a unique world line, so too each of the cells in our bodies,
which gets really astonishing if we start thinking about time at the scale and natural rate of cells,
because whatever it might be for us to experience an hour, and it can be very wildly different things,
that amount of time for a cell is probably radically expanded and could be approximately equivalent to a month,
or even more time. In any case, this behavior is sometimes witnessed during a specific part of what we might call
the reproductive cycle of some male birds, and I've seen it firsthand, and it's fairly astonishing, I remember watching a small bird in the cold weather,
leap up onto the edge of a car door on the other side of the window, the door shut, stand there a moment, look into the rear view mirror,
conduct a flying attack on the rear view mirror, bounce off, land on the ground, go back up to the edge of the car door, and repeat the behavior.
And this is the kind of situation that I find deeply fascinating due to its capacity to reveal hidden things about what it means to have a mind, or to be human.
And many of the most astonishing things that I've learned about being human, I've learned at the feet, so to speak, of animals, insects, fishes, amphibians, reptiles, birds, water creatures, living places.
So I explain to my father that during a certain part of their preparations for mating, the males undergo transformations that are certainly both physical, in the sense of involving their entire body.
And metabolic, in the sense of probably involving hormones and other chemistries, emotional, in that these animals are clearly having feelings, or something resembling feelings while they're doing this.
And perhaps psychological, although ordinarily, I guess the normative idea of psychology tends to refer to humans even though we can clinically derive clues from observing the behavior, for example, of rats, or mice, or animals.
Or chimpanzees, or elephants, or lions, or schools of fish, or flocks of birds, even trees, and plants, and flowers. Less commonly, of course.
And so I explained that it seems that these birds, when they're engaged in this behavior, are clearly not aware of what a reflection is.
And so, often accidentally, having caught a glimpse of their reflection in a pane of glass or a mirrored surface, they become highly motivated to eject that intruder.
Even if this means flying into a solid surface at modest speed, face first, over, and over, and over again, with no effect whatsoever on the reflection.
Now, I'm not sure how long there's been mirrors. And I don't know how long there's been glass surfaces.
There have previously been reflections. However, ordinarily, they would be a horizontal surface, continuous with the land.
The surface of a still pond, part of a stream, a lake, perhaps the ocean.
The creature might see a reflection in this, but attempting to attack it would result in trouble, a lot of trouble for most birds.
Because not very many birds can deal with having their feathers soaked, even though they have oil that repels water, and different birds to differing degrees.
So, it's not usually a good idea for a bird to...well, this isn't entirely true. Of course, birds bathe, but a bird can get in a lot of trouble in the water.
And also, the water will reflect the sky and other nearby features, just as our mirrors might.
But our mirrors are perpendicular to the surface of the earth, mostly. They're standing up, they're up and down, like the rearview mirror on the car or the window at my father's house.
And the reflections they produce are not unstable or transforming in the way that reflections in water generally are. It can be.
So, it's not exactly male birds that have this property, right? It's a phase state in the rhythm of their lifespan.
And certainly some birds have died or been badly injured by becoming interested in attacking their reflection in a mirror or window.
And birds are regularly badly injured or killed by flying face first at relatively high velocity into a pane of glass.
Funny that we call it that, a pane of glass. Even if the spelling's different, I still find it remarkable and interesting.
So, for most of the history of life on earth, there were no standing vertical mirrors.
And for most of the history of human beings, it was neither possible nor likely that people could imagine or think about the world.
And if they did, they did so in terms that we would consider to be somewhat primitive, conceptually, whether or not they actually were, is an open question.
Well, there's many fascinating things we can learn from imagining this behavior of the bird, seeing its reflection in a mirror or a pane of glass becoming instinctively triggered to eject what it perceives.
As a competitor for the attention of real or possible mates.
One wonders what a female bird would make of the observation of such a phenomenon.
Because when not fascinated by the reflection, most birds, under many circumstances, can determine that the glass is not open space and that there's a barrier there.
Whether they learn this or how they come to know it, I can't reasonably comment on, though I could speculate.
But from other angles, from certain angles, it's apparent that there's a barrier there, particularly if there's light differences on either side of the window, which there mostly is.
Now, a mirror is a weirder thing, a much stranger thing, a vastly strange thing actually.
In terms of the experience of organisms over millennia, it seems unlikely that organisms often see themselves reflected.
And of course, humans have done experiments around this and are very interested to determine whether animals can recognize themselves in mirrors and which organisms can do this and which ones don't and so on.
And this is often presented as evidence of self-awareness, except the scientists forget that for billions of evolutionary lifetimes there were no mirrors.
So it's not entirely reasonable to expect that the experience of seeing oneself in a mirror will result in the recognition that that is me.
Yet clearly for many animals, eventually, after being very surprised and puzzled by the mirror, they seem to come to an arrangement in consciousness in which they realize that, for example, the cat they see in the mirror is not another cat.
Now, whether they think of it as this cat or not is a more complex question, but they seem to get that that's not another cat.
And of course, many of our household pets have experienced not only of panes of glass, reflections and mirrors, but also our primary addiction as moderns, video screens, smartphones, computers, televisions and the like.
And some of those creatures, some, you know, percentage of them seem to come to understand something about the nature of these strange devices, though it's entirely unclear if they think formally the way we do in concepts and language.
It's quite clear they think informally in the sense that without needing concepts or language, they can make determinations, evaluations, and decide whether something is threatening, neutral, interesting.
So for what kinds of opportunities it might present.
And in general, I think cats more so than dogs.
And I can't speak for rats and ferrets and snakes and other animals that people may have as pets.
But cats often, I think, find it very confusing why a human would pay attention to a device rather than them.
And human children certainly find this very confusing as well. It's surprising that more adults don't.
Which isn't to say there are none who do.
The metaphor here is quite profound because I'm going to suggest that there's something we can learn from this behavior that's very important about relating with our own mind.
Without the desire to delve deeply into the nature of consciousness or awareness, intelligence, the different forms of consciousness, awareness, and intelligence that we might survey or explore,
our waking consciousness could be seen as a strange kind of mirror.
Our memory, history, and imagination conspire together to evoke figments in the mirror of consciousness.
I remember when I was four or five a trip to the grocery store with my mother and sister.
And an elderly man who was leaving the grocery store leaned down and greeted us and put a couple of nickels in each of our palms
so that we could ride one of the little tiny merry-go-rounds with metal horses that used to often be found in front of supermarkets,
along with candy, you know, coin-to-candy converters and coin-to-toy converters and coin-to-sticker converters.
And this took place over 50 years ago. If indeed, it took place at all.
Now, when I remember this event, I don't actually see it as though my waking vision, my eyesight, were involved.
And in fact, neither do I see it in my mind.
Truthfully, I can't tell you where it is that I see it or what kind of seeing that is, though we refer to it with words like memory, recollection,
recollecting, reflection. I'm reflecting on historical events.
And the experience for me is very ephemeral. Some people, I suppose, have extremely vivid visual imaginations
so that when they imagine something, it is as if, in an aspect of their awareness or consciousness, the images appear and are replayed.
Though certainly what we would call exertion is involved.
When I think of the man, I don't think of everything that happened that day or everything that was around me.
I remember him leaning over and me sensing that this was all right with my mother and the feel of the coin and a little bit of the ride.
But it's profoundly exerted. And this is a property of our cognition that we should pay much more attention to because it's both extremely useful and profoundly dangerous.
We can take excerpts and suppose that they extend universally, normatively, overall, you know, such phenomenon, i.e. old men's in front of grocery stores are nickel machines for children.
And back then, the entire scene was, at least seemed to me, quite innocent. But in the modern context, the man giving the children money, an unknown man,
could be read in different ways. It could be exerted for purposes other than mere recollection, for purposes of judgment, valuation.
But consciousness, which I'm going to allow myself to use this word in a very generalized way, a way I'm not usually a big fan of, that's me making a generalization about generalizations, by the way.
But yeah, I'm going to just allow consciousness to mean something like an accessible experience in our minds.
Presuming that indeed we have minds, and many other presumptions I'll not here mention, most of which I'm a bit skeptical about. Nonetheless, I can use the language the way we usually use it, so that it doesn't become too didactic or pedantic.
And talk about how, in the strange mirror of our imagination, coupled with our feelings, memories, desires, fears, hopes, histories,
we have a problem that's a lot like what happens with the bird when it's attacking its reflection in the mirror.
Now, our consciousness is highly variable. It can produce nightmares, fantasies, recollections that are relatively true, and recollections that aren't true.
And the recollections that aren't true can feel they can have the same kind of quality and convincing character that are true, that are more true memories have.
So that it can become quite difficult to tell the difference between, in some situations, between a memory of something that actually occurred in a sort of embodied, waking world life,
and a memory that never occurred of something that never happened in our actual embodied life.
And I don't merely know this theoretically, I know it in a very unusual way due to a strange accident that happened to me some years ago.
And without going into the tale of the circumstances, I had accidentally hypnotized myself in an unusual way that was highly charged.
And at least this is the language that would commonly be used, other language could be chosen. But this works.
And this occurred in contact with another human being. And when the contact was broken, it was electronic.
Suddenly, I began having one of the strangest and most provocative experiences of my life.
Each minute, two or three dreams would emerge like bubbles into my consciousness fully formed.
Instantaneously, these little dream bubbles would rise up in my consciousness, and I would have the experience of a complete dream sort of start to finish while awake, and while conscious, while normally conscious.
So my dreaming mind became activated while I was awake, and the results were far stranger than anything I'd ever imagined.
And they were beautiful, and astonishing, and provocative. But here's the really strange part.
They weren't marked as dreams. Apparently, because I was experiencing them while awake, my memory tagged them as actual experiences that I had just had in real world waking life.
Now, I was aware that they were dreams, but they weren't tagged that way. They were tagged as things that actually happened.
And that was quite an adventure. And that experience lasted for, oh, well, though it began to fade slowly over time, it lasted for about a couple of days.
It just became less frequent, less vivid, and less accessible as the kind of heartbeat of my dreaming mind produced these little bubbles in consciousness.
Of course, I'm fascinated with dreaming, and that's a topic that I'm going to leave mostly aside simply because I want to examine the way we experience the mirror-like qualities, the reflective qualities of consciousness while we're awake ordinarily.
You know, if we should meet someone that we really like, and whether that liking is primarily platonic, or involves eros, and could thus be sometimes classified as romantic,
I think this experience often and uniquely for different people in different times of life and in different situations, this experience inflames our imaginative faculties.
And we then may produce figments, I'll call them, though in some minds these are more like images. They can be like little vignettes from film.
We imagine possible futures. And often, particularly when we are younger, if it becomes our intent to erotically stimulate ourselves, we may produce imagery along with that.
Fantasy imaginings of lovers and love-making.
Of course, this collapses down into some pretty crude stuff eventually for many of us.
And the introduction of bizarre representations, like pornography, deeply affects the psyche and cognition, not only of people exposed to it, but of those exposed to its repercussions.
And of course, there's many kinds of porn, and some of it isn't an image, some of it is objects, the $400,000 sports car, the $80,000 wedding ring, the suit that costs more money than many people will make in their lifetime.
So, in what I'll call the theater of consciousness, where we experience where our concerns and motivations produce images, histories, and predicted futures, courtroom dramas, blaming,
histories both beautiful, torturous, tragic, and ordinary, we can become very deeply confused about the difference between these phenomenon and the actual world, whatever that may be,
or our actual experience, whatever that may be.
And so, we can fall in love, not with another person, but perhaps with our idealized fantasies, not merely of them, but of what we might become an intimate relation with them.
If we were lovers, if we were companions, if we were enemies.
And we can also decide, again, by a process that involves both intuition and perhaps idealization, that someone's a desirable companion or ally or lover, or that someone's undesirable, or even an enemy to us.
And all of this is reflected in the internal mirror of consciousness, though not all the features of these experiences are merely that reflection.
Again, we have visceral senses, smell, for example, taste.
We have visual intelligence, so that we can detect cues and hints that incline us to imagine someone as truthful or deceptive, authentic, or manipulative, so on.
And for much of our adult lives, many of us will spend huge portions of our waking time in relation, not actually with the world, other people, other living beings, living places, sky, time space, so on.
We will be relating interiorly with objects in the mirror.
And in this case, objects in this mirror may be much further away than they commonly appear.
For it is as if the mirror is within us, quote-unquote, if indeed we contain these features.
And the container metaphor is valid, which I don't necessarily believe it is.
Contagious, common, but not valid.
Also not common in all languages.
Each language seems to use the library of metaphor in ways that are both shared with other languages and unique to single languages or families of languages.
Now, of course, the capacity to make words about things gives us a second mirror.
We don't need words or language to imagine an event that took place the day before yesterday.
And though many of us can no longer remember what it was like before we had language and concepts, surely we still had something like memory.
Though it had not yet been properly processed to produce the highly structured representations that language and categories and concepts
that are required to support the sustenance of those things, sustaining them over time, over sleep cycles, and so on.
A close friend of mine is, and has long been, profoundly schizophrenic.
And the ideological, conceptual, evaluative faculties of his mind go to the most extreme and severe lengths
to attack what I suspect is the origin, their own origin, the processes that underlie our minds invisibly,
and which both, in a sense, could be understood to power them or fund them, and also to predispose their expressions.
Now, some of us will think, well, it's very important to be in control of your imagination so that you don't enter into contact with, or combat, conflict, with figments,
because this can easily become a process that is both self-replicating and ever more expensive as it recurses on itself, reiterating, metabolically, emotionally, psychologically, cognitively.
And this is the problem that many people who suffer, of course we all suffer pretty much some degree of the kinds of things that I'm concerned about here,
where processes in consciousness that have, for us, imaginal gravity, and many of these are processes which have emotional gravity,
we attack ourselves and imagine others, or groups of others, in the mirror of consciousness.
And again, I'm not saying that a mirror is the best metaphor, it's just the one I'm selecting for the moment because I'm reminded of some of the peculiar problems that face animals who have divided cortexes,
or whose cortexes are divided in the ways that ours are, with the vastly, almost endless library of results, conflicts, problems, confusions, deceptions, occlusions, that our ordinary waking world consciousness is profoundly vulnerable to.
And of course, media, social media, what we call, I think, very, confusedly, news, over time the institutions underlying these phenomenon have become more and more aware of how to manipulate our interiority, our emotions,
our fears, concerns, histories, our relationships with threat and opportunity, by producing figments that somehow we take within ourselves and reproduce likenesses of, and anti-l likenesses of, polarizations of in consciousness.
And our imaginations are ordinarily somewhat involved, whether or not there's imagery involved.
And it seems to me from my experience that humans are fundamentally social animals, that doesn't mean there aren't profound exceptions.
There's a topology of how humans are social, and in that topology there are low valleys where some individuals or small groups will do extremely well in isolation and will not do well.
And this is a very complex matter that's not easy to tease apart. Many of the contexts in which we feign social relation, counterfeit it, actually produce more isolation.
Welcome to Facebook, Twitter. It isn't that they don't bring anyone together, it's that they mostly divide and hyperbolize divisions into cohorts or populations.
But I think that we're deeply social organisms, generally speaking, and we suffer peculiar kinds of damage when isolated.
And many of us, even though we may have a few friends or some family, are profoundly isolated in our moment-to-moment day-to-day experience.
And in this situation, this potentiates certain kinds of schizogenesis in the mind, which we could define as the mind breaking into elements that can conflict very profoundly with each other,
though others can harmonize too, right? It's not just conflict.
But in the situations where there's conflict, and this conflict goes on and deepens over time, not only doesn't get resolved, it gets fed by media exposure, feelings of insecurity, impotence,
the failure to succeed, so on, these features of our interiority become highly charged and are inclined to project themselves first in consciousness in the mirror of consciousness,
and then, from there, we often will instigate a further projection onto the world, or specific people, specific ethnicities, specific genders.
This isn't to say that none of our evaluative activity is in any way trustworthy, but rather that we're not very good at telling the difference between something that happened actually to us and something we have imagined is happening to us or being done to us by possible or plausible others.
And so there's, you can see there's layers here, right? There's like the nonverbal imagination, then there's the verbal conceptual layer where we can say, you know, that person hurt my mom, you know, or hurt me, or hurt my sister, hurt my friend,
that person rescued my mom, rescued my sister, my friend, my grandmother, or these people hurt them, or, you know, they suffered because no one solved this problem, and this problem is a result of those people doing these things.
And again, I'm not saying none of our evaluative activity is useful, but rather, when it reaches the stage of interior schizogenesis and projection into consciousness, it can be like being inhabited by demons.
And I think that what I mean by demons is a strange thing. It's not necessarily a positive thing in the sense of being a thing or a being. Rather, it's a peculiar array of effects when beings have gone absent.
And nothing is steering the ship of our lives or our minds or our cultures, except a weird sort of robotic collapse toward imperatives estranged from our actual humanity and animality and organismal nature.
When I see the bird attacking its image in a mirror, somehow something of my own interiority is revealed to me, and I recognize that the strange path of the development of human cognition over eons or millennia
has led us to a situation where we can't tell the figments in our awareness or consciousness. We can't tell which things are projections, or if we can, we can still become confused between things that actually happened and things we have imagined.
And it's very easy to attack ourselves or others in the mirror of consciousness and to feel the grave necessity of doing so, as if this is the only way to survive or preserve something of our unique identity,
as if we're attempting to defend this identity from effulgent explosions of representations and counterfeited care, counterfeited virtue, counterfeited novelty, so on.
But even in my relatively ordinary life, when I have decided that I have suffered an injustice at the hands of another person or an institution or a group,
I have the capacity to preserve and reiterate that suffering, to recollect it, to relive it in such a way that not only fails to resolve it and does not result in vengeance or justice or reharmonization.
Actually, it becomes very interested in preserving the conflict, like an institution that was formed to solve a problem, but quickly transitioned to the motivation to survive and succeed and grow.
And this resembles the predicament of the bird attacking itself in the mirror.
The imperative to defend its mating territory from invasive other males turns into a huge problem when it's not other males, but a reflection of oneself that is the interloper.
You see?
And this specific thing is my concern tonight.
Situations in consciousness, thought, and concern where while thinking or perhaps feeling that we're engaged in necessary conflict,
conflict that is necessary to preserve our survival or well-being, we're actually destroying our survival and well-being because we're not relating with embodied situations in which we deeply participate and have meaningful roles.
Rather, we're often relating with layers of pain, trauma, memory, fear, outrage, anger, anxiety, insecurity that produce vignettes in the mind, vignettes demanding action on a scale we're incapable of, for example, saving the world.
Or catalyzing a world context in which justice and virtue are commonplace and defection and predation are rare.
And clearly mimicry and exertion are deeply involved in these matters.
If someone really hurt me, and there are people who have an institution to have, many of those people in institutions are long gone.
But I have preserved the memory of the harms done and under the right kind of stress which I can easily fall into in isolation or illness or injury.
Those specific excerpted memories can appear in my imagination and link up and form constellations of harming, constellations of evil, constellations of wrongdoing, constellations of injustice.
That I feel absolutely motivated to resolve and enter into conflict with.
And the problem, one of the problems here, is that the nature of consciousness is strange.
We can dig grooves in it by repeating behaviors.
And so it's possible for me to suffer a greater injustice by relation, by misrelation with my own consciousness than I might actually have suffered long ago in whatever slight or injury or harm I'm remembering and ascribing to some agent or actor.
And by the way, the energy that I'll need to invest to preserve those processes is astonishingly profound.
It's so profound that if even for a few moments I could be entirely relieved of having to make that investment over and over again,
I would probably experience unimaginable relief, incredible liberty, and perhaps even prodigious insight.
But vast portions of the resources that fund my cognition have been captured by structured fictions.
And it's not too difficult to place signals in front of me, particularly on a computer or a television screen, before we had those we had magazines and books, but magazines were the primary pictorial window.
It's not too hard to put stuff in front of me that will incline me further to repeat behaviors like that, and you can see how prevalent and profound this disease is in our modern supercultures and particularly the current state of the electronic
system in which many of us participate and some of us are conscripted to.
These media conscript us to continue such processes, resulting in ever greater vulnerability to the media that continues to incline us to repeat behaviors that have nothing to do with their apparent, their superficial function.
They have relatively nefarious purposes.
If we become aware of these things, it can be very difficult, but we will have the opportunity to not merely to resist them, but to invest the assets of awareness and consciousness in other ways, but don't tend to produce these problems, or at least are unlikely to continue replicating them.
This has been part of the path of my exploration as an adult, however unsuccessful or partially successful I may have become, and I just thought it would be interesting to share with you the strange predicament of the bird that attacks itself in the mirror
and the strange similarity to aspects of our modern cognition that I suspect are not nearly modern, but were probably differently embodied long ago in our ancient ancestors.
There's much more to say and the topic is deep and mysterious, but for the moment, having arrived at the end of my walk, I'll close here.
Hopefully you may find something useful or interesting in these perspectives.
Thank you for joining me. Until next time.
