Hey everybody. So the sun has set. It seems quite early. The clock time here is 5 p.m.
The actual time is a matter of relationships and not so much a matter of segments or, you
know, slices and circles and degrees. Though sometimes for some things those things matter,
particularly perhaps for anything involving computers, synchronization,
navigation, even in the old world, degrees, right? Really important little slices in circles or
cycles or, you know, how far above the horizon a specific star is as can be determined with
navigational tools, compasses, the strange and beautiful optical tool whose name currently escapes
me. What is that thing called? Some of you will know immediately what I mean. Perhaps it will
return to my awareness, what I mean, the name of it. It's almost the first quarter of the second
winter moon cycle. Got a bit of a mosquito problem here at the moment.
Saying hello to a friend. So probably won't make a long video as it's getting dark. But something
was on my mind earlier today and I wanted to talk about it briefly because often write aphorisms.
And sometimes I pose them as quotations even though I'm not quoting anyone. I'm thinking about some
topic and writing about it. And I often attribute these writings to someone who isn't me or to a
nameless person. Perhaps because, well, there's lots of reasons for that. If I think about a topic
as someone other than myself or as nobody, then I think differently than if I think as myself.
And so I've toyed around with this principle of, I think it's called pseudopigraphy. It might be
pronounced differently. It could be pseudopigraphy. I don't know. But of writing with pen names. And there's
lots of different sort of benefits and features to that process. In any case, that's not what's
really important. I was looking at an aphorism I had written and it said something like this.
Anything that you find in words cannot be the truth. The truth is not a skeleton.
The truth is not what's left over when we've evicted everything and only the language remains.
This kind of thing. Though I'm not quoting it directly at the moment. So the idea is what's
important. Now, what I want to point out about that for the moment is, do you understand how
that statement is self-conflicting? If you say in language that words cannot be true and cannot
capture the truth, then those words are included in the problem. The statement refers to itself in a
peculiar way without necessarily having, without the writer necessarily having had that intention,
or the speaker. And this turns out to be one of the very profound problems with language in general.
And it's not something that we can easily escape or produce a principle that rescues us from. But
there are principles that we can use to help us if we're intelligent and aware of the problem.
It's a little bit like not falling off of a cliff, right? There's, I mean, and there's a number of
issues involved. There's also an aspect of our minds that in some people becomes quite inflated,
or inflamed, that opposes being told things, right? It doesn't want to be told things. And it
certainly doesn't want to be instructed about what to do. So in people who have, in people in
whom this aspect has become inflamed, they are often diagnosed with what's called oppositional
defiance disorder, or ODD. So that if you tell them, you know, don't leave the light on, they
leave the light on every time, or they go and turn it on right now, you know, this kind of thing.
That's a rather clumsy example. But there's a problem with giving people, some people in certain
situations, there's a problem with negative advice, right, telling people what not to do. It's
often much more useful to give them something amazing, or beautiful, or creative, or fulfilling to
engage themselves with. Now, whatever was going on a little while ago, had very little to do with
the language I was using, I said, having a problem with mosquitoes. Really, what's going on is a
physical, emotional, and cognitive situation. The language doesn't have a lot to do with it. But
that's not very helpful. So I'm going to leave that branch of the discussion aside. What I was
just trying to say is that our actual experience is only slightly framed by language. The experience
we're having, everyone will understand mostly what I mean when I say something like that. And they
may remember having had some problem with a mosquito or something like this. They may imagine
something in their minds, or they may just translate the words into, and that is required, by the way,
into their ordinary meanings, evaluate the sentence, presume they understand, and either have some
interest or have little interest, or however they respond. And by the way, that respond thing,
that has to do with respawning a mind, right? Because if we don't respawn the mind, actually,
it would just, you know, flatline. So moment to moment, influenced by our sensory experience,
our history, our habits, our inclinations, our desires, our fears, and so on, we are
respawning consciousness, or not. And in case this isn't clear, even the experience of dreaming,
when we think of ourselves as being unconscious, quote unquote, there are probably phases of
unconsciousness in our sleep, but those are punctuated by phases of dreaming. Perhaps some
people don't dream much or at all, though I think that's unlikely. What I do understand is that
the language we use typifies things, it normalizes things, so that we think, well, everybody dreams,
and it's not untrue. And yet, at the same time, those experiences are staggeringly unique, even
though they properly fit within the class of experience that we would encompass with the
word dreaming, or the set of experiences. So we have this weird problem where if I say,
the truth doesn't fit within language, when you see language be suspicious, that cannot be the
truth. And what I mean is that actual truth with the capital T is an embodied experience of
profound awareness. It may even involve experiences of transcendental nature, meaning that they cannot
be encompassed in language. Now, what I'm not saying is things about the trivial idea of truth.
There are some purple dots and circles on that green background. That's the trivial idea of truth.
That's mostly okay, though there's some trouble with that too. I don't think the trouble's important
enough to explore here. Because what I'm really concerned about is the problem of when language
refers to itself, particularly in proclamations or declarations about the nature of things,
beings, minds, truth, virtue, malignancy, evil, good, and so on. As I began to write aphorisms,
I regularly discovered that it was very difficult to make any kind of critical comment that was
deep and rich without that comment somehow referring to itself, including itself, and thus
seeming to a mind aware at that order of interpretation, thus seeming to contradict
itself in a similar fashion to the way that I demonstrated with the first statement.
And I don't have to talk about language for that to happen. There's all kinds of ways to talk about
that. And one of the problems is that, well, there are two specific issues. The first issue,
I'm going to call an issue of normativity. And what I mean by that is that the language tends to
produce statements that collapse the incredible uniqueness and novelty and specificity of our
actual experience into norms and generalizations. And those generalizations actively exclude
the otherwise staggering diversity of the situations, beings, concepts,
you know, circumstances, ideas that they refer to when they do this. Now, weirdly,
if you look at what I just said carefully, you will see that because I'm making a critical statement
in which I'm drawing into question the normativity of language, I'm actually making a normative
generalization about talking about things or writing about things. That's the problem I want to
point out. It's very difficult ordinarily to see this because it requires that we, that our
perspective inhabit an order of interpretation that is ordinarily uninhabited or rarely entered.
But see, this is the same, I'm having the same problem with that statement, right? So this is a
fascinating conundrum. Now, again, we can't solve it just by declaring it, but we can acquire
awareness of it and that awareness can become nuanced so that our own relationships with language
and statements and declarations and properties and qualities and sets and members can become
much more intelligent and nuanced over time as we practice together, remaining aware of these
problems and playing with them in our minds creatively, we can find ways to circumvent them,
I think. And notice that that statement doesn't have the problem, I think, maybe it does. There
could be a higher order of interpretation at which it does, we'll have to see. In other words,
the positive statement of what we can do doesn't have the same problem as the statement of what
we should be concerned about, right? And so this is the issue. What we should be concerned about
often contains a secret trap and the trap inclines our intelligence and awareness to collapse
into a very narrow or point-like situation from which we're very unlikely to be able to solve
problems or even understand them deeply. So the first issue that I'm concerned about
is the problem of normativity, generalizations essentially, that are posed as if they pervade
over all of everything, right? Just the way that that first statement, the truth cannot be found
in words. Now, there's something meaningful about that. It's not just false. The truth of a kiss
or the taste of a peach will never be found in words. That's just a fact. But there are
normative, or excuse me, there are trivial kinds of descriptive truth that can be understood from words.
So the second problem is what I'll call absolutism or completeness. And that's where
the statements we make or read or are made or declarations, proclamations and so on
imply, first of all, they pose as an absolute authority over qualities, meaning, identity,
relationships and so on. So there's a generalization there. And there's also a sort of absolutism.
But what I mean is the circle is closed. There's no opening. It's not,
the truth often evades
imprinting in language, right? It's, truth will never be found in language.
I need to think of some other examples and I may have a little trouble because I don't usually think this way.
But hopefully you can see the problem. The problem is one of
over-authorized and overemphasized completeness.
Stumbling in the dark can only be bad, right? Is a clumsy attempt.
All criminals should be punished, right? Ridiculous idea, insane.
In fact, the idea that crimes can be paid for with punishment is also insane, completely
ridiculous. And yet it's an idea that seems somehow fundamental to our modern cultures
and their absurd and nightmarish attempts to imply that wrongdoing creates an accounting system
and to subject individuals to this accounting system apparently under the guise of the will of
the people and to fail to properly subject corporations and institutions to such an accounting
system so that they can essentially get away with pretty much anything because they can buy
their way past any penalty and you can't imprison a corporation or really torture one, right?
So these are weird things.
Dreaming is just nonsense, right? That's just a bunch of nonsense the mind does when it's asleep.
And in many proclamations there's this really weird abstraction of what might be an actual
being into a sort of dead, structured authority. And then just straight up proclamations are made,
right? The Bible is the Word of God is a great one actually.
And I've also heard people say things like
I'm looking for a word. My vocabulary is failing me.
But essentially things like the Bible doesn't admit of private interpretation,
which essentially means, apparently, the Bible interprets itself to us, right?
As if language itself could tell us what it means. And here we see a terrifying problem
of abject total completeness that literally cannot be true. It can't be true. It's not
possible that that's true. Without minds, language is meaningless.
Machines can't interpret language and language certainly can't interpret itself.
This brings us back to the weird problem of the Rossellian paradox where either you have
this statement is false or you have a card with two sides and on one side it says the statement on
the other side of this card is true and on the other side you see the statement on the other
side of this card is false. That's a bivalued version. One of the resolutions to that problem
is my personal invention that goes something like this.
No statement shall, through self-reference or other means, promote itself to the order
of...
No statement shall, through self-reference or other means, promote itself
such that it appears to be a mind, right? No statement shall promote itself to the order of
minds. That which is required to interpret statements.
There's a simpler version which is statements aren't minds. Statements that tell you what they mean,
especially if they... the weird problem with the Rossellian paradox, by the way it's named after
Bertrand Russell, is if you say this statement is false, the first problem is that the statement
has no content and since it has no content, its only content is self-reference. That's all that's
there is recursion. So there's no content to determine whether it could be true or false.
And also statements don't tell us whether they are true or false.
Mines determine the degree of verity in statements either through evaluation or through a combination
of evaluation, imagination, intuition, and so on. So it's getting dark now or rather it's getting
darker and it will probably continue to get darker but it will not get completely dark.
And that's the problem with the statements. There's a situation where there's too much
completeness and there's no hole in the statement for an intelligent mind to relate with it,
to transform it, to bring into the... oh wow, an owl is flying...
to bring the vital awareness and intelligence of minds into the milieu the statement creates,
into the structure it creates, and to bring it to life with awareness,
intelligence, creativity, play, logic, and so on. So the first part of the problem is normative,
you know, has to do with normativity, generalizations. Another part of the problem has to do with
statements where the circle is entirely closed, such that minds don't enter in, right? There has
to be an opening reminiscent of Gideleon in completeness, in mathematics, the idea that
if I can say this somewhat correctly, the idea that no system complex enough to perform arithmetic
can be complete and if it is complete it will produce false results, right? There's an opening
in the system where minds are involved, yeah, there's one way to think about it. Ah, there's the moon.
So these are some of my thoughts today after reading some of my own writing and realizing
I've been aware of this problem for a long time, I've rarely made a video about it or talked about
it in my videos but I thought I'd give it a little airplay today. I hope that the second winter moon
is treating you and those you love very well. I wish you peace of mind, well-being, joy and play,
comfort and good relations. Bye for now.
