Hi, thank you for joining me. My name is Darren Stevenson, and I can be found under that name on Facebook in San Francisco.
I also have a blog at wondercloud.wordpress.com, and I run a website called ordinal.org,
where you can find some of the fossils of my developmental speculations and history.
I'm going to be expanding on my recent video in which I discussed left hemispheric dominance
and the topic of hemispheric lateralization. That means is, in a simple way,
which sorts of cognitive and intellectual and emotional functions, also physiological functions,
are associated with which hemispheres of the brain. As I mentioned yesterday,
our brain hemispheres in our body are sort of reversed so that my left hemisphere controls largely the right side of my body,
my right hemisphere controls largely the left side of my body.
And by the way, this is my right side, my camera, maybe reversing.
I'm pretty sure it's reversing what you would see if you were actually facing me.
So yesterday I spoke a great deal about the left hemisphere and problems with it.
It's also extremely powerful in the sense that it's capable of abstracting certain features of reality
in a highly focused way that allows us to leverage those features to produce, for example, technologies,
language itself, and ways of knowing that are as powerful as mathematics,
really one of the most astonishing ways of knowing we've ever produced yet also
because we're not very relationally or ecologically intelligent,
because our species is not yet very purposefully intelligent.
The existence of mathematics and science has proven to be a horrifying curse
for life on Earth and for human beings.
So I'm going to talk a little bit today about some features that I wasn't able to get to yesterday
that have to do with the situation between the hemispheres
and how these affect our development and our lives.
One of the things I was really blunt about in my previous presentation
was that the left hemisphere really only believes in one side of reality
and that side is the theoretical side, the description, the non-living side,
the function, the mechanism of things.
The right hemisphere is completely the opposite.
Interestingly, the left hemisphere is terrified of the other side of the body
and would actually probably like to just shut it down.
It doesn't understand it. It thinks it's like some kind of a strange ghost.
That makes it paranoid.
And of course, when we're frightened, I don't know if you're aware of this,
when we're frightened or anxious or really frustrated,
are basically accessible, all the different forms of our accessible intelligence plummet
and we become extremely reactive, prone to violence, prone to acts of self-harming,
all kinds of really deleterious effects.
The right hemisphere, on the other hand, knows that both sides of the body exist.
It understands its insane twin and actually loves that twin
and has no real problem with it.
And in fact, the right hemisphere is very, it's the communion hemisphere, right?
It actually, it links minds and beings and lives into vast webs of distributed sensing and intelligence
just by its very nature.
So while one side of your brain is terrified, paranoid,
and concerned almost entirely with uninterruptible fictions
that it will not question under any circumstances,
the other side of your brain is actually an anciently involved intelligence
that's probably as sophisticated as at least as the planet itself
and has abilities that are so shockingly beyond anything that we've ever really been able to explore
that were we to get a decent taste of them, they would wipe out religion,
they would advance science by thousands of years in a heartbeat,
and we would have abilities of communication and self-fulfillment,
self-actualization and healing that would surpass our wildest science fictions.
The right hemisphere is an absolutely astonishing form of intelligence,
but unfortunately it rarely reaches consciousness
and the reason is the left hemisphere is just too busy talking about itself
and it's also terrified, excuse me,
so it tends to essentially kind of lock down the relationship for its own dominance.
Now the right hemisphere isn't particularly worried about that for a variety of reasons.
It doesn't show up for conflict, it has no real interest in fighting anything at all.
What it will do is it will briefly intervene in a crisis to provide a moment of correction,
but the rest of the time it's doing like thousands of tasks per moment that would wipe,
if you had to do these consciously, there's no chance you could do any of them.
I'll give you an example, playing a musical instrument.
If you had to think your way through playing a musical instrument, you would fail abjectly.
If you had to think your way through balancing on a wire while you're crossing a gap,
you would fail miserably.
If you had to think your way through being in love,
you would have no connection whatsoever with the person you were in love with,
your empathy skills would disappear and you'd have no real chance of being anything
but kind of like a relational machine that bases its relational choices and activities
on an accounting game, as if it were like a banking thing.
And you'll notice that there's vast portions of our culture and our habits
that are very, very focused on accounting.
The right hemisphere has no interest in that.
It doesn't really care about owning things, it doesn't care about possession of things,
it doesn't care really about who is doing something or who has power
or who has knowledge or who has wisdom, because it's just not how to put this.
It's not focused on a self in any kind of a way that would allow it to even be interested in possessing things.
And not only that, its powers in its free, open mode of constant activity
are so astonishing that there's no possible machine or possession
you could ever require that would even be meaningful in comparison.
You could have stacks of money that rise to the sky
and be useless in comparison to the power of the right hemisphere.
But it's absolutely humble.
It doesn't even really exceed itself as existing in any formal sense.
It's a way of way-making rather than a being of getting and doing and functioning in things.
And interestingly enough, what happens to us in childhood, and it's really astonishing,
is that the power of the right hemisphere, when you see that sort of angelic shining almost,
it looks like it's almost from outer space, right?
When you see the intelligence in the eyes of an infant
and you realize that you're looking at a creature that has no comprehension of language, right?
And yet is incredibly intimately sensitive to emotion, to human connection, to relation and play,
and to other as self, right?
So it actually experiences others as itself.
It's not empathizing with them, right?
This is a story science might tell you.
It's intra-being, right?
And so when you see people demonstrating skills and abilities that appear or are called paranormal or psychic,
you're actually seeing the ordinary function of the right hemisphere having somehow developed a method
to relate with and shape consciousness.
Now, normally what happens is that our waking consciousness just shuts that out almost completely.
So we don't get in...although we have all these senses underneath, right?
They're sort of buried underneath our habits and our beliefs and our models and our language.
We don't tend to get much of a sense of them.
And when we do, we make up kind of strange names for them.
We call them like intuition or gut feeling.
Now, as I spoke of yesterday, the gut is actually the oldest intelligence organ on Earth.
It was the original way of knowing.
So when you hear people talking about a gut feeling,
they're not talking about something that's like fake or just an idea, a trope, a metaphor or a cliche.
They're actually talking about the fact that you have a whole set of intelligences that are feeling-based,
like I don't even know how much...they're impossibly older than anything that the brain can do or be.
Because in fact, as I mentioned in my previous video, for six sevenths of the history of life on Earth,
there were no brains, none, zero.
So what we had were guts and maybe something somewhat like a heart.
And we had the intelligence of all of the other organs that comprised the organisms that were those creatures
that sort of established the initial ecosystems into which animals with brains would eventually evolve.
So the right hemisphere is a unitive hemisphere.
And it doesn't just unify the side to the body, which it does effortlessly.
Even though one side would like to attack it and throw it away, it doesn't care about that.
And the really interesting thing is that the left hemisphere is fundamentally prosecutorial.
So exactly what it really wants to do is it wants to lock things into an identity that it can manipulate, right?
And it can make statements about, like our court systems, like science, like language itself.
And it wants to throw away the entire idea that actually identity is a flow that changes according to context and relationships and purposes.
And so what we get in our culture is we get this really strange, bizarre idea that we label something and then we know what and who it is.
The right hemisphere's version of that is that we intimately interbeing with other, with contexts,
and the surrounding purposes and histories and senses of this moment.
And we realize that identity is nothing like solid, that a name is really just a placeholder,
that language is almost an ephemeral kind of a toy, and that what's really crucial is to intimately sense, right?
All of the possibilities and all of the intelligence implicit in every situation, so that it doesn't care anything about accounting.
If it did something yesterday that we would account as wrong today, it's simply a different being.
It's not the same being that it was yesterday.
So if you try to prosecute, right, you immediately shut down the right hemisphere.
Any kind of assertion of fact that anything that you want to freeze in a particular way, the right hemisphere is going to just not really care about it.
It's going to reparse it and reexamine it in a very liquid, highly intelligent way to see what's going on now.
So it would be really hard.
Let's say a child like stole a candy bar, right?
Well, the left hemisphere would then set up for prosecution.
It would freeze the child in the description of a thief.
You're a thief.
And then when the child said, well, why didn't take the candy bar?
It would say you're a liar.
But actually the child is telling the truth because the person that took the candy bar no longer exists, right?
That was a frame in a moment of being, right?
That child was a frame in a moment of being where they perhaps took something that supposedly didn't belong to them according to the left hemisphere, right?
The right hemisphere doesn't have the same set of morals or ideas at all.
Most of the morals and ideas that comprise our legal systems and the fictions that we call corporations and governments and things like this are abjectly false.
They freeze everything in the frames that are manipulative and they prosecute and punish the things that they try in any way to escape that accounting system.
The right hemisphere doesn't do accounting.
So one of the problems is that when the left hemisphere goes haywire and just kind of disconnects from the right, which happens basically when we wake up, right?
That's what happens.
When we're asleep, the right hemisphere is dominant.
The left hemisphere is inhibited and we dream.
And also our bodies undergo radically astonishing metabolic changes involving healing and restructuring and learning.
The left hemisphere is not very good at learning in general.
And in fact, learning and memory depend in many ways largely on features of the right hemisphere's ability to radically transform and evolve experience into astonishingly sophisticated metaphoric and relational structures
that the left hemisphere couldn't do even, it's just impossible for it.
It has none of the capabilities that it needs to be, how should I put this, the prodigy that allows us to have sophisticated forms of memory, intelligence, perception, and awareness.
Now, the other thing about the right hemisphere is that it's the home of forms of intelligence we often don't get much of an experience of.
And these forms, when they become available to consciousness, result in all kinds of super function.
And what I mean by forms of intelligence we don't normally have access to are purposive intelligence, right?
The deep awareness of purpose, relational intelligence, the deep awareness of the opportunities, threats, and possibilities of incredibly rich relation, and that's mixed with purpose.
And then ecological intelligence, the direct sense of all living beings and of the living context as a being, right?
That we are an instance of, that we're actually not connected to, we emerge from it moment to moment.
The right hemisphere is intimately aware of this, intimacy itself, and many other features that would be very difficult for me to even describe because we don't have language for them, you know?
And some of these features are absolutely miraculous when they're allowed to somehow emerge into consciousness.
And when we talk about an awakening, or rebirth, or enlightenment, really what we're kind of speaking toward is this very idea that many of the faculties of the right hemisphere, when allowed to emerge into consciousness and inform consciousness and sensing and awareness and intelligence,
produce wildly astonishing kinds of super function.
And when I say wildly, I mean things that look impossible, okay?
I'll give you an example.
You walk up to someone on the street, you have a sense, a very deep sense of intimacy with a stranger for no apparent reason, and you know their name, you know their parents' names, you know where they were born.
You can sense where they were injured, if they have an injury presently in their body.
You'll be able to speak with them in such an astonishing way that you can actually undo years of locked trauma.
You can heal them of addictions, all kinds of unthinkable, really seemingly metaphysical, right?
Possibilities emerge immediately when the intelligence of the right hemisphere is somehow allowed to enter and inform consciousness, which very rarely happens in our cultures.
And many of the people who appear to be psychics are actually just using tricks, okay?
Tricks that I can demonstrate to you.
But there's a much deeper and truer aspect of, I wouldn't call it extra sensory perception, because it's sensory perception,
and it's relatively ordinary and natural forms of perception that are native to the right hemisphere, but are completely shut down and also co-opted by the left.
So that if they start to emerge, they get named as psychism, we start selling those, we think the person has special powers,
or that they're magical or something like this, it's a mistake, really.
And I know this from direct experience. It's not a theory, you won't read this in a book.
You can actually, you can just watch a child or an animal demonstrate it all day long, okay?
You don't need any kind of expert.
Now when you look in the eyes of an infant, what you're really seeing is that ancient intelligence,
and it's so profound that it's going to actually acquire all of the assets that are going to shut it down and inhibit it from the adults
and from the relational situation that it's surrounded in, and it's going to go through a crisis, really,
a terrifying crisis where, just like in Genesis where Cain kills his brother Abel, the missed child, right?
So the sword child kills the missed child and shuts it down and sends it to the underworld.
We're going to undergo something like that in childhood.
And the process involves two, it's a sort of a bipolarity process that I call, on the one hand,
inculturation, which means to be instructed, that means in structured and informed,
it means to be formed in the image of, excuse me,
the cultural tokenizations and literal labels and features and structures of enforced relation that comprise our common human cultures.
That is actually a process of amputation.
It's just like when children undergo circumcision where for some bizarre reason the adults think,
well, let's surgically modify the organ of intimacy of the child because we can improve it.
This is the same thing that happens to our minds when we're children and the culture itself is monstrous in this regard.
It sees this as a gift, right?
We're going to raise them up to the ability to interact in human culture.
It's kind of like saying that you're going to raise a relational prodigy up into a place where 90% of its faculties have been amputated
and are then going to be sold back in broken forms that just give it the tiniest spark of the memory of what was lost in a drug-like way
that becomes more and more addictive and seductive as the pain of these losses grows dramatically over time.
Because sort of the soul and the mind of the person is not confused.
They understand what happened.
The right hemisphere knows exactly what happened in childhood.
It just can't say it.
It doesn't have the language.
It doesn't have the words to say it.
So inculturation is essentially a set of amputations where what we receive are kind of tokenized models and fictions and rule-based behaviors.
And by the way, if an animal tried to live in the world based on rules, it wouldn't last a day.
The only reason we can do that is because, A, nature absorbs the damage that would otherwise wipe us out and, of course, so that wipes out nature.
And then we have all these technologies that we use to assist us in surviving the incredible stupidity that a rule-based approach to relation and existing in and as nature,
the repercussions of all of those approaches.
So that's a catastrophic misapprehension of our position as animals, our various forms of intelligence, and our potentials as animals.
And the second thing that happens, so inculturation begins immediately.
We start to learn what is considered good and bad, right?
And we start to be rewarded for behaviors that are considered good, many of which are completely ridiculous.
And we started to be punished for behaviors or failures to behave in good ways or behaviors that are seen as bad.
And many of these behaviors are neither good nor bad, right?
What it really depends on is context and what the goals and the agendas of the groups and situations and environments that we're involved in are.
But we don't treat it that way.
We have things that are, we just say they're good period and they're bad period, which is, it's about 2% of intelligence, okay?
So if you make that 2% God, you get atrocity all over the place.
If you look at human history, there's no problem seeing that.
Or if you look at the human presence, or what we're doing in the present time, no problem seeing this.
It doesn't work, right?
We can force it to work in various ways that become more and more lethal, more and more expensive with each repetition.
And we just, as we just ignore that and keep doing it, the repercussions grow, expand into catastrophe.
The second part of the problem is in languaging, right?
So this is where the child actually begins to acquire the linguistic habits, resources and assets that belong to its cultural group.
Or now if it's lucky, the child will acquire multiple languages because that will give it a great, a great deal more freedom to sort of triangulate, right?
Among multiple languages and metaphors and connotations.
Connotation is really the right hemisphere.
Metaphor and connotation are more the right hemisphere's way of relating with the ideas and features of language
and they're vastly more intelligent than the left hemisphere's, which is denotation or definition, right?
Well, this word means just this, yes?
But the right hemisphere never sees that.
It sees all of the connotations, the personal history of the contextual, the connotations of the moment of context and relation.
And so because it's got like thousands of positions of relation with language and meaning, it's infinitely more intelligent than the left hemisphere's sort of denotative.
We have two or three meanings and they mean exactly these things.
And when you see incredibly rich writing or poetry or art or music or film, what you're seeing is the influx of metaphor, right?
Into the otherwise rigid sort of prison-based environment of denotation and definition, yeah?
And when we see that, we get so excited, it's so nourishing, we just want to drink it in.
But unfortunately, so few of us are ever allowed to develop these resources on our own that we have to be sort of spectators and consumers
unless we become artists or we become, and again, we have all these labels, right?
You have to be this.
In truth, you are all these things, okay?
I can give you an easy example.
I often ask people who I can tell are musicians, I'll say to them, you know, you're a musician, aren't you?
And they'll say, well, yeah, I used to be.
I'll say, really?
What does that mean?
And I say, well, you know, I used to practice violin, but I couldn't be quite good.
This is very left hemisphere, by the way.
I could never be good enough to perform, so I eventually gave it up.
That's a really bizarre idea, right?
Because you can see that the left hemisphere is set up in a counting game, right?
It's going to measure their interest in music.
And if it doesn't match the highest possible standard that will allow them to say be, you know, a symphony performer,
it just says, you can't do that.
So they just stop, right?
But there are billions of ways to use and become musical, not two, right?
But the left hemisphere wants to just measure you and judge you,
and then, you know, if it doesn't work out, it's going to punish you, okay?
So when I ask them this, and I say, you know, are you a musician?
And they say, well, you know, like I was or, you know, I used to be, but I had to stop.
I think to adjust the video here for just a moment, forgive me.
It's really obvious to me that something's gone wrong, right?
And what's gone wrong is the accountant came in to the land of creativity and started attacking it.
And you can see this in so many people's lives because actually every one of us is a born artist.
Every one of us is a born poet.
We're all born prodigies.
We are born to be geniuses.
Each one of us in a unique, unbelievably powerful way.
So what happens in childhood is that in culturation, coupled with in-languaging, peer pressure,
and the rewards for all kinds of really cruel behavior,
and the failure to be our creative selves that happen to us in school and through peer pressure
and through the cultural mores and structures that we're forced to interact with,
they basically just amputate all these things and shut them off, okay?
Now, you're still carrying them, right?
You still have incredible abilities of prodigious, instantaneous sensing and knowledge,
a metaphoric understanding, seeing from like 20 positions at once
that form an astonishingly intelligent set of opportunities for knowledge, learning, relation, success, fulfillment.
Most of these are just amputated and replaced with like the two option model.
It's good or bad, right?
And the accountant, right?
That measures you against a certain standard in one particular vector, okay?
A thousand vectors that your genius exists in, okay?
But in March's The Accountant reduces those to two,
a two that you can never really measure up to unless you're very uncommon, right?
And says like, if you can't be perfect in one of these two ways, you're not, you can't do this, ever.
Now, I've had this experience hundreds of times with different kinds of learning.
I remember the first time that I tried to drive a car, I thought this was absolutely impossible.
It's never going to happen. I can't do it.
The same thing happened when the first time I tried to play a guitar.
My standards were so high that I thought, this is just an impossible thing. I'll never do it, right?
And I'll never be a great guitarist.
But actually, all of that was lies.
And so when I asked people like, you know, why were you a musician? They tell me they gave it up.
And I asked them a second question.
Because they say, you know, no, I'm not no longer a musician. I say, really?
I'm just curious.
Did you notice that when you speak, you're actually making incredibly sophisticated music
and that your vocal tones and all of the possibilities of your voice
have these incredible powers of drawing people in and awakening their feelings
or really making them feel something else is going on, feeling judged,
all of these different things.
Did you happen to notice that you're actually still a musician
and that everyone who talks is a musician
and that everyone who moves is actually a dancer?
I mean, so the left hemisphere wants to basically like narrow down
and chop off most of your abilities whereby we're on the opposite side.
The right hemisphere is still robust.
It's like a forest of endlessly diverse possibilities
that can be endlessly developed and integrated with the left hemisphere skills
in the most astonishing ways that produce absolute prodigy when enacted.
So the first thing I want you to understand is
when we went through in culturing and in languaging,
what we went through was a series of crises
where the assets of the right hemisphere, just like almost the perfect example
is how humans relate with ecologies, right?
They burn them down.
They take like one or two of the billions of assets there
and they transform them into instantly manipulable tokens that they can do accounting with.
And that's actually what happened to us.
The incredibly diverse forest-like ecosystems of the right hemispheres
anciently evolved thousands of forms of intelligence were chopped off
and reduced to like five.
And then the accountant came in and said
wherever we didn't seem to perform exactly the perfect standards of normalization
that we were just not able to do those things and told us,
no, you can't, you aren't, you never will be.
And then our parents and our peers reinforced that
so that whenever we started to try to demonstrate these other forms of intelligence
they just either shut them off, they punished them, they refused to reward them,
they did something else that generally tortured us.
So you can actually watch this happening in a child
around the ages of three to five
while the first phases of inculturation and languaging are happening
particularly between four and six where a lot of the serious combat of language starts happening.
You'll actually see, if you watch the child, especially at night,
the child will have terrible nightmares
and actually what's going on is the left hemisphere is basically assaulting
all of the ancient features of intelligence of the right hemisphere
and dominating them one by one and amputating them and shutting them down
and converting their sort of nourishment assets, the momentums that fund them,
converting them into assets it can use to build structure and power and dominance
and reproductive power over here.
And this is really a tragedy.
We need to stop this from happening.
We need to encourage absolutely, first of all we need to be aware.
We need to be aware that these features in childhood represent a catastrophe
of unthinkable proportions that we all underwent
and none of us are really able to speak about
the right hemisphere doesn't have much of a voice.
But when you see something like this, you're seeing the voice of the right hemisphere.
When you see art or you listen to music,
especially music that is not highly structured
and doesn't conform to the commodities that we all agree on as part of our local culture,
when you see very sort of naive music that is innocent yet exquisitely beautiful,
you're really seeing the nature and the feature of the right hemisphere.
Now I want to explain something really clear.
The intelligence assets of the right hemisphere are thousands of times more sophisticated than those of the left.
And without them, the left would be absolutely unintelligent.
You wouldn't even be able to survive a simple trip to the kitchen, literally.
Because along with all of the millions of forms of intelligence, you could never catalog them.
They're endlessly possible, endlessly possible, excuse me,
there are endless possibilities of intelligence that live and are constantly evolving
and changing and interrelating in the right hemisphere and as the right hemisphere.
Almost all of them are locked out of consciousness.
And the really funny thing that happens when the left hemisphere becomes very dominant
is that it's afraid it will be discovered.
It's afraid that all of these histories of amputation and dominance and basically rape
will be discovered by the right hemisphere and then it will be punished in a legal system
because that's the kind of world it lives in.
Hilariously, this thing doesn't have any kind of accounting game like that.
It doesn't do court systems. It doesn't do fighting.
It really just wants all the assets to play together and have fun and grow explosively, right?
So the moment that we can begin to establish both in our own lives and minds
a sort of freer relationship between these two
and really we want a little bit more right hemisphere dominance over the left
really the right hemisphere is meant to wield this force
as both a structurally developmental laboratory
where we can develop new features of intelligence that get instanced
and how should we put it, integrated into the right.
So this is sort of like an experimental lab and also it's a weapon.
It helps us to defend ourselves against certain kinds of threats
and to identify threats and to know when we should like run
or when we should stay and things like that.
It's never supposed to be like the top dog.
It's really supposed to be the kind of little brother
who the impossible intelligence of the right hemisphere informs and directs
and helps to develop.
Unfortunately what happens in childhood is it just gets completely flipped over
and this is a real crisis.
You can observe children undergoing the agonizing pain of this
especially if you watch them at night during the phases where they're learning
how to, for example, to put two words together into a phrase
or multiple words into a phrase.
In the early phases of in-languaging it's absolutely obvious that this is a crisis
if you just observe the child carefully.
I remember this crisis in my own body and life
and it was terrifying but I was so fascinated with language
because I was a very young reader.
I was reading by the time I was four.
I was reading novels by the time I was five.
So I underwent a radically powerful set of rapid assaults and changes
that restructured my mind forever.
However, somehow I got lucky
and many of the features of my right hemisphere's intelligence were not only not amputated
they were integrated in ways that allowed me to appear to be a genius
or a prodigy to other people when, in fact, I'm just an ordinary person.
And any ordinary person has, again, thousands of unique forms and modes
of incredible prodigy that have just been shut off,
just literally amputated and silenced in childhood
and most of them will live their lives never having discovered them
but they will suspect them, right?
Because when they see other beings doing something excellent and beautiful
making art or a heroic moment in a story or film
or rescuing other beings or relating in such an intelligent and beautiful way
that they wonder, like, boy, I sure feel like I can do that too
but I just can't, somehow, something I feel blocked, right?
I feel like I'm stuck and I can't, I recognize myself
in all of this excellence of the genius of other people who've been raised up by our culture
but somehow I don't seem to have the, like I'm, like I can't quite get it out.
That's the sense of the prodigy in all of us has been squished down.
Now, when we begin to learn and talk about this together and support
and reward the emergence of these things, they come right back to life, okay?
They were amputated when we were children and a lot of their development was shut down
but secretly, okay, at night while we were dreaming and sleeping, they're secretly developing
so that actually, if finally it's like a young adult, a teen or an adult
if these assets begin to emerge into consciousness, we will have shocking experiences
of sudden prodigy and enlightenment and ability way beyond our wildest dreams
and it's a terrible mistake if you make a religion out of these
if you think, like, well, this is psychism or, you know, this is like the new age of weight
I got a download, right, and blah, blah, blah, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
All that's happening is that the assets that were basically crushed during childhood
are finally finding a way to emerge back into waking consciousness
and to inform that consciousness and to rebalance it
so that there's a little more input from these incredibly prodigious aspects of genius of relation,
purpose, awareness, sensitivity, emotion, intellect, intuition, intimacy, communion, right?
Intra-being, being together as one being in the same way that the members of my hand
are really just one thing, they look, it's funny that we count this as five, right?
You hold this up, you go, how many is this, like, a five, right?
But that's ridiculous, this isn't five.
This has five distinct aspects, yes, like my body does, one, two, three, four, five.
It also has a unifying body that we completely ignore, right?
We don't count this, yeah?
We also don't count it as one.
So this stuff, it's not five, there's a whole bunch of things going on here.
The right hemisphere is aware of this, the left hemisphere goes, five, five separate things.
Do these look separate to you?
Do they really look separate?
Because they're not separate, right?
They're distinguished in a way that allows them to be incredibly intelligent
when they act together as a unity, right?
They try to use just one of them and see how good that works.
But the left hemisphere thinks you should, you should only have two fingers, really, yeah?
And they should be either good or the good finger or the bad finger, yeah?
And so you can see how we're set up from the beginning to sort of lose most of the intelligence
that we actually bring to human birth because once the left hemisphere becomes dominant,
essentially what it does is it redirects all the developmental and expressive assets
that the right hemisphere was using previously to develop its genius
into these highly focused, very tokenized, very simple, very narrowly intelligent definitions,
tokens, words, names, labels.
And, you know, it's a real problem because we think, for example, that once I know the word tree,
I know what a tree is.
That's absolutely ridiculous.
In fact, what a tree is is so profound, it's hard to give you just a few of the metaphoric ideas
and the connotative senses of what a tree is.
You would begin to realize that a tree is something you had no idea what that was.
And it's so astonishingly shocking that you could spend your entire life
and never finish discovering what a tree is.
But for the left hemisphere, all it needs is the word.
Mommy, mommy, look at those birds.
Look, oh, don't worry honey, those are just sparrows.
They're all over the place.
What?
Yeah, those are just common birds.
They live everywhere.
It's just called a sparrow.
Oh, okay.
The next time a child sees the bird, he goes, hey mommy, look, there's the sparrows.
And the enthusiasm is gone because the whole universe of possibility
that the existence of those birds represented has been shut down
and shunted into one thing, a definition and an A.
And this is the nature of our culture and it destroys our intelligence, right?
We can appear very intellectually intelligent by the left hemisphere,
but intelligence has lots of assets, right?
It's not just the tokens that we can manipulate.
It's purposive.
It's intimate.
It's relational.
It has all kinds of different forms that don't even have names.
Metaphoric, yeah?
And super metaphoric that links constellations of metaphors
that produce unthinkable, unthinkably profound abilities
to understand and relate and learn and grow.
So we undergo really an attack in childhood
and you can see this happening.
And one of the ways that we can help each other to undo this
is just by realizing we have all these other modes of intelligence
and they're largely occluded by consciousness
but we encounter them when we play, when we make music,
when we dream, we're really seeing these forms
and the dreaming actually restructures intelligence and memory.
So that's the basic foundation of learning.
If you had to learn with only your waking mind,
your ability to learn would be absolutely crippled.
There's a lot of other things I'd like to say about the right hemisphere
but these are the main things I wanted to cover today.
It's something that we need to bring back into our experience
and begin to discover together without the religions
and the paradigms and the gurus and all this,
we want to sell us stories that we don't need.
If you want to play with those later, that's fine.
But first, let's just try to recover some of the lost assets of our childhood.
And the thing I most want you to understand
is when you see anyone being excellent,
being deeply, beautifully human,
being profoundly, intimately sensitive
to such a degree that it looks like super function, right?
It looks like this person must be psychic
because they can just touch someone and heal their body.
This is the intelligence of the right hemisphere.
This belongs to you.
These intelligences that we lost and were shut down
are the most crucial aspects of our human birthrights
and in order to heal our lives and our minds, our relationships,
in order to have human fulfillment,
in order to heal our cultures and try to ameliorate
some of the catastrophic problems
that have become not only our habits but our religions, right?
It's crucial that we begin to understand
that the silent aspect of intelligence
is a treasure trove of millions of forms
of possible relational super function
that have just been basically silenced and amputated
and replaced with manipulables.
And as we begin to discover this together
and invite each other into this discovery,
which I'm here sort of inaugurating, initiating,
asking us to begin to play with together,
we're going to find out that what it means to be human
is something we've never had any idea about.
It's beyond all the stories in religions.
It's a millionfold beyond anything science can deliver as a description.
What we have in our human birth
is a potential so astonishingly rich
that it's really kind of bizarre
that we could have been so deceived for so long.
And yet again, in our creation stories,
like the Bible where Cain kills Abel
and now Abel becomes sort of the first born in the underworld,
we're seeing that our ancestors were aware of all this,
but it was kind of kept a secret
because once you have language, right,
it really starts to, how should we put it,
to sort of shunt all of the developmental resources
that would become prodigy
into these very narrow, highly focused, manipulative mechanical forms.
It then raises those above us as gods,
and they crush us down.
They crush down our humanity.
They crush down our empathy.
They crush down the myriad forms of intelligence
that are our birthrights,
with which we actually acquired those assets in the first place.
Because you weren't born speaking language.
You were born as the genius and the prodigy of the right hemisphere.
I think that's probably all that I have time for today.
I want to challenge you and invite you
to continue to explore these matters deeply on your own
in play, in experiment, in relation with other people,
in thinking about the sources of the real problems
and things that we're terrified of in our culture,
in the revolutionary hope
that we can free all prisoners of these systems
and that we can become human and animals again,
in a world so astonishing
that our wildest stories don't even give us one percent of it.
And we need the return of these intelligences.
We're desperately hungry for them inside.
These are the sources of what people seek out in addictive behavior.
These are the sources of our mental illnesses,
anorexia and bulimia, schizophrenia.
All of the melancholia, manic depression,
the bipolar thing is actually a kind of attempt to
you get like, you're starting to move back to the raging prodigy
but then the paranoia of the left hemisphere comes back
and it's afraid it's going to be prosecuted.
All of these things that we see in culture
as common reactions to the loss
and the crushing of the right hemisphere intelligence
can be healed very quickly
and we just begin to allow that influx
of incredibly ancient and amazingly diverse
foreswarms of different kinds of intelligences,
instead of two.
So as we learn to do this together,
we're going to rediscover the birthrights of our human nature,
our place in nature
and we're going to have an adventure
really beyond anything, any story or book or model can ever deliver.
That's my invitation to you today.
Thank you for joining me.
I look forward to learning together
the far beyond the models that we're trapped in our culture.
Bye bye for now.
More soon.
