Hey everybody, I've got my headphones on, probably going to have to take them off so
that I can get a bunch of noise in the video, so give me a moment here while I negotiate
that.
Lots of new wrinkles in our lives these days, to put it mildly, and just to be clear, I
don't have any planned topics.
I just thought, well, I'll take a few minutes and see what's on my mind while I'm getting
a little exercise in the park.
You know, from one perspective we might say our world changed very rapidly.
For all of us with the onset of the pandemic, however, the pandemic, much like other strange
concerns, is a bit of a red herring, right?
It's distracting, and it isn't really that our world changed.
It's rather that the changes we imposed on our world were reflected back to us when ordinarily
they are buffered by nature, nature absorbs the damage, we don't, therefore we kind of
as a species anyway.
We go on with business as usual, which is pretty much omniside as usual, right?
Kill everything as usual, including ourselves in our hearts and our families and our children.
So it's not just that the humans are mean to the environment, we're mean to each other
in the sense, particularly our collectives and institutions, in a fundamental way, in
a sense of depriving each other of meaningful roles.
And by roles, I mean ways of being engaged with each other and the living world that
are meaningful, deeply meaningful, right, they're rich, they're nourishing, when we
enact them, we feel better, even if there was work, right, we still feel so good to
have lived this day and seen those animals and helped these people and been alive in
the real, deep way.
But we also deny each other, or we, you know, meaning the collectives and societies and
institutions, sort of pathologically on purpose.
We invent pathologies and embed them in our cultures and societies and children and minds
and languages and ideas and concepts.
And there's vast arrays of these pathologies and it's, you know, not my intention at the
moment to survey them.
There might be one or two really fundamental ones that are weird.
The idea that an individual is the unit of being, right, that's ass backwards.
If any of us were actually rendered into individuality, we'd be dead immediately, instantly.
So we have this idea that, you know, and then there's the opposite idea that only the group
matters, no?
That's bullshit too, especially if the group's been compromised or co-opted or was malforged
or misfounded.
Those aren't going to be good things to belong to, to belong with, and the roles that we'll
get from either of those situations are weird and mostly toxic, though there are exceptions.
Because there's a space, right, there's a sort of slice of the pie of ideation and concept
in which individuality is crucially important to pay attention to.
And there's another space in which we realize that meaningfulness and our capacity to embody
roles is intimately linked with groups and the felt sense of group membership or identity
within a group of some kind.
And you see this all throughout, you know, every aspect of human social culture, though
most of what you see is counterfeited and some of it isn't, weirdly.
There are some cohorts that sort of just refuse to buy in to the narrative at the top of the
situation.
And so they defect from the common culture, right, and they form their own cohorts with
their own motivations and structure.
And this can even happen spontaneously.
If you watch humans interacting during some kind of a crisis, you'll see even something
as relatively common as an automobile accident.
If you just watch what's going on there around the situation that springs as if from nowhere,
one moment everything's fine, the traffic's going, well, fine in the superficial sense,
it's going along approximately as it should.
Next moment, boom.
And now you just watch how the people's roles, they immediately change roles.
And some people will be like, that's not my business, I'm out of here.
And other people will be like, huh, that's really interesting, maybe I should take pictures
of it.
And other people will be like, oh my God, if someone hurt, let's get over there and help
them.
And they'll immediately just forge a sort of natural cohort that comes together, deals
with the problem, the cops come, the ambulance comes.
But the first responders are always strangers, right, unless an ambulance was involved in
the accident or something.
And so you can see this natural tendency for us to, you know, given some stimuli, right,
to form a group.
And there might be, you know, there might be bad actors in a situation like that, there
might be people who are so opportunistic that they realize that, oh, well, everybody's
distracted by this, I can take that and get away with it.
I just want to say something about getting away with it for a minute.
Because after watching birds and feeding some birds, I realized like, they're aware that
their focus on the food that I am bringing disorients them.
And that there are predators nearby.
And so if they don't pay really close attention and remain aware that there are predators
nearby when they're dealing with the food, they will be likely to be eaten.
And so when they take the food, you know, they look around very carefully, they look
up, turn their head, look at the branches, look at the branches, look at the spot, look
around, take a couple hops, do it again, take a hop, take the food, look around.
And then they fly away and they catch the food.
And that flying away moment is getting away with it.
Right?
It means they got, they got the food without being eaten.
It's kind of different from what humans tend to mean by this phrase, but these things
are deeply related, trust me, they're a lot older than we are.
And they're in the world in a very, because they don't have the burden of formal representational
cognition where you can get so lost in thought that you just get eaten while you're sustaining
their thinking.
Right?
And this is a problem that we humans have.
Many of my friends, it's probably not an accident that they're my friends, are classically
overthink, they're just wildly overthinking things in all kinds of unique personal ways.
So we have fictional collectives that are toxic and pathological, but some of them pretend
to be heroic.
In fact, most of them pretend to be heroic.
What a shock.
And you convert people if you didn't pretend to be heroic.
We should think about that.
Right?
That's something we want to pay attention to.
We should notice when ideologies become weaponized by adding things like heroism, what is that
bad smell?
It's a really bad smell.
It's a bad chemical smell.
Or divine edict, right?
This is the word of the God, the God.
Damnation or salvation, right?
These are other weaponization ingredients that are really common.
Do this, you'll be good forever.
Don't do this, you won't be able to come back from it, you're done.
You'll be tortured forever, all of the internities, you know, and so on.
So interestingly, the structured pathologies that in fact our collectives and in fact our
collectives are embodied, embodiments of these pathologies, and we become embodiments
as we participate of the same pathologies.
It's very difficult to not participate.
There's a lot of benefits for participating and it's much more difficult to acquire the
same degree of benefit or protection from not participating, though it's possible.
Some cohorts do this by very intimately, mutually supporting their members in the same way that
a tribe might have done.
If we presume, you know, a tribe that wasn't terribly pathological, and then we have the
same kind of pathologies around the individual, right?
It's individuals we have to pay attention to and we're all individuals and our individual
rights matter, which of course I agree with.
As I said before, there's a lane in which there's a slice of the pie in which the individuality
is really important to attend, to highlight, to be aware of.
But the idea that a bunch of individuals are going to compete inside a system for supremacy,
that's a really dangerous idea and that's an idea that, you know, in our modern times
ends up with dead planets because you can build cities of machines to wipe out ecologies
and then just bank the tiny, minute percentage of the value of those ecologies, like a trillionth
of a percent of the value of the Amazon is what can be drawn out of a farm, you know,
made on burnt out Amazon rainforest, a trillionth of a percent.
Those ecologies are actually, should be, they aren't because we have abstraction standing
there instead, those should be the arbiter's value, right?
Healthy, thriving, anciently conserved ecologies, there's nothing more precious in the universe
around here.
They're more precious than humans because without humans, without those you don't have
humans, you won't have humans.
They're more precious than any idea of wealth or money.
So if you burn some of that shit down to bank a trillionth of a percentage of the value
of that thing, it's hard to imagine a more malignantly confused trade.
And literally, it's a trade where we're trading the future of life on Earth for a few pennies
in the bank at the moment.
No being in any state of awareness would be willing to make a trade like that.
And in fact, if it were suggested, I think they'd either think that it was humor or they'd
become very angry and say like, no, if you try that, we're going to fight.
You're talking about the origin of life on Earth, our bodies, our minds.
But our collectives not being embodied, being essentially technical and methodological fictions
emerging from bizarre histories in Western and Eastern culture.
I've often said that these, whatever it is that forges and runs and propagates our collectives,
and obviously it's purposes, and largely those purposes are profit and domination,
this primacy is like this, in a fictional context in the marketplace.
So we have fictions of value, and they're concrete within the construct.
Money is a concrete thing within the construct.
It's a totally fictional thing, but inside the construct, it functions concretely, relatively
speaking.
Whereas you can't make ecologies function concretely inside the construct, notice that?
And one of the things that means is that you have to convert ecologies and people and animals
and everything, right, everybody, everything.
You have to convert those to things that have concrete value in the fiction, and how do you
do that?
Well, you kill them, and you make them stupid, and you deprive them of the context, the contextual,
the naturally-nutritive, contextual circle in which, within which, right?
We can adopt and embody roles and relationships and values and principles and ideas that are
actually meaningful and more like ourselves, more like the living world, more like time
space, so that we don't have to begin by defecting.
And I think one of the most tragic things about fictions is that you have to think about
things that I've seen going on as just the horrifying miseducation of our modern peoples,
our children, and the idea also that children are, you know, children are just, they're
just little humans, in other words, the big humans aren't supposed to still be children,
but they are.
And if you get to their heart, and you tap on it a little bit gently, you will see the
child in them come out, and it's not a pathological child, it's an essential child, right?
It's not the child-ish, it's the child-like, yeah.
And when people are saying things that they're deeply touching to them and profoundly moving,
often I will hear them start to speak like a four-year-old, and they'll be crying and
their voice will crack, and they'll say very simple things in very simple language.
And usually it's because a terrifying array of injustices have been done and ignored and
propagated and revisited upon, you know, endless victims and so on and so forth.
Because children, not very good at lying about atrocity, and they can tell that the adults
do this.
And this is remembered in all of us, right?
Because there is this sort of essential, deeply honest, very sensitive, child-like being inside
us, now whether we have any, you know, experience of this commonly or access to it is another
question.
But it's in us, it's in all of us.
I can hear this voice in every person I speak with, with very few exception.
And it would be interesting to discover that many of what we think of as mental disorders
are actually deeply related to this essential child within us not being seen, not being
heard, being punished when it speaks, being ignored, being told to go away, you know,
having it demanded that we grow up and so on and so forth is all this weird language
around it in English.
The light's really strange where I am.
Probably noticed that the light in the video is different.
So we start out with really good assets, most of us.
There are exceptions to that too, and some of those are really important.
It's important that there be people who aren't perfect, right?
It's important that there are people who are elderly and injured and infirm and drug-addicted
and homeless and criminal and everything, right?
Diversity matters for living beings.
When you look at ecologies, this is blatantly obvious, right?
The health of the ecology can almost be derived from its diversity quotient.
In many cases, there are exceptions there too, but even where there's not explicit
over external diversity, say like in a desert, there is still profound and amazing internal
diversity, so there's different modes of that, but what I'm trying to get at here is that
the wise direction is not the idea that we produce perfect people, rather that we endow
our people and all people, the two things, the first, that we don't steal the essential
and precious intelligences that all of the people are born with.
The intelligence of the child is so much more profound than what it sacrifices that intelligence
to acquire that this comprises a fundamental theft, right?
This is a terrible impoverishment. How could that be, oh, I see.
So we must refrain from damaging the intelligences that we bring to human birth through the processes
of inculturation and languaging. We must find ways to pursue those goals
that are mutually supportive, right? They support the essential intelligences of the
child and the unique creativities and proclivities of the child, while at the same time somewhat
cautiously introducing them not just to the opportunities for vocational and intellectual
development, but also to their dangers, so that they know, the children, that we know
the adults, that the language games are broken and dangerous, doesn't mean we can't use
them, means we have to be careful, and the culture games are really broken and really
dangerous, right? Rather than just indoctrinating them and saying, you know, English is a great
thing, as you learn it, you'll be smarter. Not fucking true. You're probably smarter
with the thing you use to acquire English with, vastly more intelligent than what happens
to you once you've acquired English, or inquired into English.
This is the wall of fir tree here. So we have to preserve, nurture, and fund the development
of the essential innate intelligences, which are not representationally founded, they are
emotionally founded, and this is why it's crucially important that as we grow, we have
free access to meaningful roles and vocations that we would be proud to have enacted, not
because they were terrifying or difficult, because they were beautiful. And, you know,
very, very few of us will have the opportunity, we see the essence of the beautiful mind of
the child preserved in art, right? And in some specific branches of spirituality, particularly,
well, I didn't name any specific path. And of course it's always individuals preserving
it, right? It's not, you know, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not
Buddhism isn't what preserves it, it's individuals being, you know, enacting Buddhist ideas that
might preserve something good sometimes. But that still leaves the problem, like even
if we were able to enact something like that, and we could, we had collectively, right,
we had this ability to both nurture and preserve the essential intelligences of the child
while cautiously introducing them to representational thought, language, human culture, and the
dangers around those things. And very few people are good with the dangers of representational
thought. A lot of people can tell you about the dangers of society and civilization, things
like that, but not so many could help you understand why English is a really terrifying
thing for most people to acquire. So even though we might have a shot at something
like that, and some parents manage some degree of this, mine managed a very small degree,
and that was enough for me to carry, I think it's really my mother primarily who did this,
but that was enough for me to carry with me some of that essence of the child-like intelligence.
And that preserved my soul, in a way, in the relational vacuum, right, in the vacuum of
kind of the weird science fiction-y outer space of human culture and jobs and so forth, civilization.
So the thing with the children is accessible, right? It's conceivable, and some parents
get away with some degree of it. Only if they're carrying those concerns and have developed
awareness around them themselves can they transfer this to their children. Though everyone
has a kind of innate sense that a child is carrying something precious and divine, and
it's going to get smashed into this other craft, right? And so everyone, most people anyway,
many people is the right way of saying it. Many people are sensitive to this without
being specifically conscious of it. And so they give their children and grandchildren
and brothers and sisters and so on little seeds, little seeds of hope and little seeds
of nourishment. But most of them are actually very frightened, especially the parents who
have to care for their children, if the children can't become self-sufficient. Self-sufficient?
Really? Is anything ever self-sufficient in nature? I don't think so. I don't know what
to think. Yeah, it's just a bad idea. But in our culture, this is the idea. You become
self-sufficient. Sufficient unto yourself, sufficient for yourself. You can take care of yourself.
You take all of these ideas. They're pretty bizarre, actually. But it's natural to be
concerned, right? We want our children to be able to make their way in the world, and
we realize that the world is primarily the fictional cultural structure shit. And the
children rebel against that in varying ways, more so in their teens, usually. But it's
natural for the parents to be concerned that their children, for example, will be able
to have a job, a way of making a living. Very weird language.
And we should be really suspicious about it. Of course, it's trenchant in our cultures.
The adults' concerns are not trivial, and they're not made up. And they relate to whether
or not... Most of the parents can barely take care of themselves if they can take care
of themselves, but they manage to take care of the children. Or something like this, something
resembling this. And so it's natural for them to have a concern about, well, you know, when
can my child leave the nest? I can still take care of them some. But I also have to care
for myself.
Hi, beautiful. Hi. Hi. Hi.
So, this puts everyone in a series of, you know, double and triple and multibinds, all
of this crap that I'm talking about. It engages us in roles and necessities that are both
unnatural for us as animals. Painful, torturous, confusing, stress and anxiety-inducing, physically
unhealthy, body-wrecking, mind-wrecking. And we call that civilization. Now, I get why
we call it civilization because, you know, there's not like roving bands of barbarians
and pillaging and, you know, tearing shit apart right where we live. We've sort of exported
most of that to nature. And if we export enough of it to nature, then we stop attacking each
other to steal each other's already extracted nature value shit. So that can reduce war,
which is also a huge problem for us and for nature. And, you know, just an array of ignorant
atrocities, grandstanding. What I was trying to say is I think we have access to, first
of all, helping the children in the ways that I described. And remembering that we are those
children and helping each other in the ways that I described. Right? Helping each other
to recover our essential intelligences, to throw off the bulwark of structured fictions,
structured fictions that are linguistically and societally imposed on us. Because we are
still the children we were. There's something timeless about our childhood. And maybe childhood
is the wrong word. In Buddhism, the phrase original nature is commonly used. And this
certainly doesn't refer merely to childhood. It refers to something far more profound and
primordial. Something seemingly mysterious, yet accessible if we want to chase it. So
I think that first aspect, right, of like helping each other to recover the intelligences
that we brought to our human incarnation, and to support and recognize them and to assist
them in their lives. And I think that that first aspect of helping each other to recover
and assert their primacy over rep cog, right, over fictional bullshit ideas in language
and culture and fucking societies. But the problem that we have is that that doesn't
resolve the layers of fictional culture shit. Right? Even if we do this together, which
I think we should, and I'm kind of trying to do my part, or part of my part, that won't
repair the strange sort of paradigmonic, linguistic and cultural and sociological imperatives
that were consistently enmeshed in. And for that problem, we have to do something new
that we know others have done, but we're not very good at doing it regularly. We have to
invent something new that we know others have done, but we're not very good at doing it
regularly. We have to invent new societies, not around commerce or objects of commerce,
but around relationships, values and principles that we share. And that's not as hard as
it sounds. In fact, it's relatively simple and it could happen overnight. There's just
this really deeply entrenched habit of waiting for a leader or waiting for someone else to
get it started, following along with what's already there, right? Don't reinvent the wheel,
actually in this case. All these wheels need to be reinvented. Those were the wrong wheels
in the first place. And for us to still be traveling in that car 100 years later, it's
just billions of years of human time later, is as inexplicable as it is unjustifiable.
But it remains to be seen if the common humans will kind of step up to bat. And rather than
voting, just actually form their own societies. Now of course, in order to do that, they'd
probably have to defect from the existing societies. And one might guess there'd be
some pressure not to do that, right? Like if you got to pay your taxes to the British
government, you can't also support the little society that you and 400,000 other people have
formed together in hopes of, well, hello. Yeah.
I think that bird's got its own agenda.
It's not as interested in the peanut as it is in what it's already up to. So yeah,
you kind of, for us to forward societies, we'd probably have to defect from those that
we presently have membership in. And that membership is really a weird kind of thing.
It's a bunch of legal fictions. It's not really membership. The United States of America
has no meaningful conception or concern about me or you or anyone or anything that I know
of. And part of the reason that it doesn't is it's not a being. It doesn't have a mind.
It can't have concerns. It can have analogs of concern, right? It can have, you know,
what its organs focus their attention upon, either to cause something to cease happening
or to cause something to begin happening or continue happening. But even that word attention
is an analogy because only minds can pay attention and constructs don't really pay attention.
The humans within them, they sort of fight, right, to determine what will be paid attention
and in what ways. So it's not like the constructs are purely disembodied. They're filled up
with humans, but somebody working on an oil rig for Exxon is still a human being. But
their role at work is omnicidal and anti-human. Even though we could say, for example, that
they are, well, you know, they're supporting our society by ensuring that there's enough
resources for our cars to keep going. Well, that's a really bad goal, but yes, they are
doing that. Wow, light is really beautiful.
So I think we're going to be stuck for a long time with these monolithic supercultures.
And we don't have to exterminate them in order to do something vastly better. And our
participation in them can be modulated. We don't have to totally defect. But we do,
if we want to have anything resembling intelligent human societies or anything resembling something
that we might reasonably think of as civilization, we're going to have to forge them and I haven't
seen much of that going on. Mostly, we're concerned enough with the necessities of our
day-to-day existence. And we're leaning on the infrastructure that we have enough and
familiarly, we know how to lean on it, that we're not motivated enough. There's not enough
danger and threat right in our face to inspire the common people to do something that to
them seems very provocative, but it's sort of the opposite. It's much more provocative
to keep on going with nonsense and attempt to form a new society, new societies, meaningful
societies. Societies with values we could survive. We could survive enacting these values. And
the societies we have at present are not that kind and they never were. When the United
States was testing the atomic bomb prior to dropping it on Japan, first of all they
dropped it on themselves a couple of times just to kind of make sure it worked. It was
a good idea. It would be like, you know, well, I've got this really cool gun so I'm going
to shoot myself in the face with it and oh, it works. But that's the least of the problem.
I think when they set off the first atomic explosion, there was like a reasonable uncertainty
percentage in the math where the physicists could not determine that it wouldn't wipe
out the entire planet, right? That it wouldn't just cause an uncontrolled chain reaction.
But they set it off anyway. Because once you commit to a path, right, and you make a lot,
you're invested in it, now you're willing to take otherwise unconscionable risks that
where you're not invested in that path, you would certainly not take.
A very small group, here's one of the things that I think is really surprising. The existing
supercultures are so moribund and overstructured and they're resting on simple accessible
anchors. And they're actually, they're so top heavy that a small group of intelligents
people, five people, can certainly transform them in a week. And this sounds crazy, but
we've seen the dark side of this over and over again, right? The 9-11 attacks changed
the course of the nation of the United States overnight. And that's a dark version. And
it changed it catastrophically for the United States. In other words, someone, maybe ourselves,
maybe we were involved, sort of punched us in the face. And in response to that, we just
started punching ourselves in the face as hard as we could, and then punching random
other people as hard as we could. And then eventually maybe finding someone that was
involved in the first, who knows? I mean, the narrative is so fraught with bullshit.
You can see how someone understood the principle that I'm talking about, right? They're like,
this thing's so top heavy that if you hit it right here, it's going to attack itself.
And this is well-known in, this principle is well-known in martial arts and other disciplines.
Though it's very rarely applied at the societal level, right? We need something like, we need
something resembling advanced pushing hand skills with societies, because if we don't
establish something intelligent immediately, there's no time left. We were out of time
a long time ago. Then our suffering is going to be radically and pretty much universally
increased. So it's really important that the humans are somehow inspired to begin to forge
intelligent societies together, even if they start out very small. And those, we can form
societies that are capable of manipulating the structure that currently exists, of taking
advantage of that structure and of transforming it very quickly. But it's a wide open question,
if we will. And in order to do that, we will need, we will need people to inspire us. We
will need leaders. We will need people who want to lead. And that's always dangerous,
because usually the leaders you want are the ones who don't want to lead. But I am aware
of two conflicting, I have two conflicting senses here. One, it's very unlikely that
the common people are going to start, are going to recognize that their societies are
omnicidal and top heavy. And then forge intelligent sort of little intelligence units, right, that
can manipulate that structure and transform it and even profit from it if they need to.
It's very unclear whether that will happen or when. And it looks unlikely. But it's also
like close to my hand. It's that close, it's so available. And eventually, as we've seen
historically, if we don't take the route to innovation, we will be far more likely to
force down the route of war. And that route is likely to crystallize many of the pathologies
presently operant in our cultures. This is one of the functions of the military industrial
complex to crystallize and keep sort of benefiting from, at every possible cost, from the necessities
of armed conflict. So I can see at once that it's completely accessible and at the same
time, it's profoundly unlikely. Or at least so it seems to me at the moment.
And I am aware that I could have a very astonishing array of different roles in collectives that
were themselves intelligent and creative and motivated. And whenever I'm with any kind
of collective like that, it's instantaneous. My role transforms. I get good roles. I embody
and enact aspects of myself that are otherwise completely forgotten in my day to day life.
We need this together. We all need this. Everyone needs this. We need meaningful roles. Living
to 70 inside a box where you then die of whatever isn't a life. We need to have adventure that
is meaningful and not just the luxurious spectator on the beach, wherever.
Drinking alcohol. It's kind of a strange thing. If you're at the beach and it's not calming
enough that you need to drink booze too, something's wrong. It's quite a panorama here. I'm going
to give you a little taste of it before I wrap up the video.
I used to call those the high terrains. This phrase the crows taught me. Well, I'm not
sure if this was entirely coherent or if I got anywhere, but hopefully some of what
I had to say was interesting or useful. Very grateful to have the opportunity to keep making
videos, to be able to stand up or breathe or anything actually eat food. And I'm very
grateful for those of you who enjoy my videos. As you know, I'm not much of a marketer. I
don't advertise or try to make money. Just sharing because it's in my nature to reflect
deeply about what it means to be human and how things are today. How it feels today.
What's going on? So thank you. Hopefully I will see you all again very soon. Bye bye
for now.
