Hello everybody. Thank you for joining me. I just want to thank everybody who's listening
to the videos that I make. I deeply appreciate your attention and if you like what I'm doing
and you want to support it, please feel free to share my videos in whatever way is comfortable
for you and hit the like button and to subscribe if you're willing to. Those things might help
me to reach a broader audience. At present, my audience is extremely small, although out
here where I'm walking around, I have a different kind of audience. An audience of living beings.
And the living place in which I'm so privileged to be able to walk and learn, relax, make friends
with plants and animals and insects, the sky, the sun, the moon. The stars, though they're invisible
in the daytime, are just as present, much like our dreaming mind, which can be overwhelmed by the
brightness of the transformations that happen when we awaken. I'm unusually fascinated by
dreaming and in our modern situation, many things that are actually deeply mysterious
have been captured and explored by people wanting to popularize them.
And some of that's beautiful, but not all of it is beautiful.
Many people are fascinated with lucid dreaming, I am too.
And I'm a proponent of experimenting with our dreaming, but we also have to be aware that
when we place our dreaming experience and the aspects of our awareness that are involved
with dreaming, when we place them before the courtroom-like analysis of the waking mind,
there are risks there. I deeply enjoy being able to remember my dreams.
And it goes through phases and has gone through many phases throughout my life
of different kinds of changes, sometimes remembering five or six seemingly complete dreams,
at other times remembering none.
But the relationship between our dreaming mind and our waking mind,
becomes rather conflicted. I think in childhood, we undergo a crisis where
our dreaming mind's presence in our waking experience
often is transformed in various ways that really, when we're little,
comprise catastrophes and there's nearly no discussion of this.
And that's a topic unto itself, but there are many old stories about this transformation
happening on the broad scale of our species over time. It's part of the history of the
development of the minds that we inherit and are imprinted with today.
There are many old stories about this, including the story of Cain and Abel in the Bible.
Cain can be understood to embody many features of waking consciousness,
the desire for analysis and comparison and identification, cataloging,
evaluation, naming, so on. And Abel, whose real name is Hevel,
which means something like puff of vapor,
is killed by his brother and exiled to the underworld.
The place of death, the place of dreaming, but also the place of wonder,
because where Hevel's consciousness is ascendant,
wonder, awe, reverence, and deeply felt communal senses of relation
and meaningful non-verbal character
are common. And it's tragic that as we
undergo socialization and languaging and enculturation,
many of the faculties native to Hevel's awareness,
the dreaming mind's awareness, recede and often disappear from our waking experience.
And I think of this as tragic and unnecessary, even though I myself am subject to it.
In fact, these days,
I'm not highly motivated to awaken because I need the deep, nurturing, nourishing inspiration
of dreaming.
This topic here is rich and deep, and I've explored it in other videos and I'll explore it further
again. But today, I want to talk about something related to this problem.
And reflect on some of the features
that emerge in the wake
of the transformation we undergo in childhood and continue to undergo throughout our lives.
And in a sense, in a kind of negative sense, I mean this word
to sound like transformation.
There's a kale plant just growing wildly here. It's really pretty. It stands out. There are nearby
gardens with them. This kind of transformation, which you can see the structured layers of
our collectives and institutions constantly pumping and in a way really forcing down our
throats unless we're able to completely ignore modern media. And even then, if we do this,
unless we are also rather isolated, it will reach us through other people,
through their communication and concern, because they become entranced with the imperatives
of false collectives. Collectives that may once have had some degree of authenticity,
but in our modern experience are largely counterfeited, or that authenticity is counterfeited.
And we're very vulnerable to this, particularly if we're isolated.
And it's a strange isolation that we exist in today where
we can think about the world. We can think about everyone. We can think about
a specific cohort of people, or an ethnicity of people, or a gender distinction of people,
a political distinction of people, an ideological distinction, a religious distinction, a financial
distinction. And it's only been a very short time in terms of the history of the development
of the minds. Many of us are captivated by while we're awake today. Many of these features are
very new, and we're not well prepared to cope with the ramifications of them.
We can sense, broadly,
incredibly terrifying problems and wrongdoing that happens on the collective level,
and it is also expressed closer to home in the experience of people we love and know directly.
The whole system of the necessity of money and insurance of various kinds, and
the necessity of maintaining
endless kinds of machines and systems, it's exhausting
in all kinds of different ways that I'm sure many of you can imagine.
And, you know, throughout the history of our species, different kinds of imperatives
captivated our collectivity,
almost as if there was a strange kind of a god or demon that endlessly hungry
finds new ways to demand our servitude and sacrifice.
As it devours the roots of our interiority and nature as beings, embodied beings and
organisms and animals and human beings, and everyone's dreaming mind is deeply aware of
this problem and is concerned with it, and that translates into various kinds of waking mind
behavior, trying to remember some interesting words about this. Perhaps my vocabulary
will retrieve them for me shortly, but right now I can't access them.
So, it was my goal today to talk a little bit about
what we might refer to as drivers in waking consciousness,
and I'm particularly concerned with the driver of productivity, having to get things done.
Some of the language that I'll be using today,
and some of the ideas that I'll include, come from a therapeutic tradition
called transactional analysis.
Personally, I recognize the value of many different methods and perspectives about
our minds, without being a devotee of any of them.
So, I just want to mention that I find transactional analysis, also known as TA,
to be a fascinating and brilliant array of tools for understanding
some of the trouble we get into
once we wake up from dreaming and sleep, and in TA there are various kinds of drivers
that are articulated as such,
and I'm not going to catalog them now, but it's relatively easy if you're interested to do a
little research about it. I think TA began probably in the 70s,
and I cannot recall the author's name, but there was a very popular book called Games
People Play, and there was another book called What Do You Say After Hello?
These days, there's a small white book that contains the primary body of
knowledge and special language and ideas that are associated with transactional analysis,
and as you might imagine,
from the language, this has something to do with
the perception and perspective that we can understand relationships and thoughts
by breaking them down into series of transactions.
So, if I say hello to a stranger, that begins a process that can turn out in all kinds of
different ways, depending on our motivations and habits and context and so on.
The productivity driver is deeply embedded in us and is constantly being hyped
in ways both subtle and overt in our societies and cultures and particularly our financial system.
We're encouraged, or it's not necessarily the word I would select. I think we're kind of hypnotized
by the necessities of pragmatic activity so that we can maintain our shelters and our machines
and our luxuries and have food because we mostly don't grow or hunt our own food.
And of course, there's important aspects of productivity that are
anciently that originate in our distant ancestors because during various seasons,
there were various kinds of important hunting and gathering and crafting
social and ceremonial behaviors
that we depended on to keep each other alive during times when
food was scarce, whether it was cold, or there were invaders.
In our time, while most of us, many of us anyway, don't experience
direct warlike invasion, we're constantly undergoing waves of colonizing
contagions
that evict our interiority
in a way that becomes very painful over time as it proceeds and counterfeit
and sell us back broken, tokenized versions of roles and relationships
that we might otherwise embody more naturally and authentically,
nurturingly in ways that are fulfilling, fundamentally fulfilling.
And a lot of this has been replaced, not in everyone's life, but for many of us much of the time
by transactions, particularly commercial transactions and
transactions whose purpose it is to capture our attention
and thus convert us to roles and behaviors which if we could see clearly, we would certainly reject.
Our dreaming mind can see these things clearly, but it's not particularly adept with language,
nor does it rely on models.
It's a deeply intuitive way of awareness
and in this sense,
we can understand it as the what survived of the intelligences with which we were able to acquire
language and models and concepts, the intelligences that underwent
in languaging and in culturation when we were little and again throughout our lives.
Transactional analysis isn't really my topic, I'm just going to use this language of the driver,
but I'm also going to mention something.
Hi.
Well, it's much more beautiful with you and your dog, I must admit.
Yeah, it's much more modern.
Yeah, it's just nicer with you, it's just nice on the eye.
Yeah, I love it, I come here every day.
Oh, that's sweet.
My name's Darren.
Hi Debbie.
What's your dog's name?
Rizzo.
I think I met Rizzo a couple days ago.
Yeah, I met your husband and Rizzo at the pet store.
Yeah.
So nice to meet you.
Hope I'll see you again.
Yeah, right.
Well, I come here to get out of the cage of my apartment.
So there we have an example of something like what transactional analysis wants to explore,
which is what do humans do after they greet each other?
What's going on there?
And because we have trouble in arguments and disagreements and such,
it's useful to have some methods to analyze their structure.
But one of the things I wanted to share from transactional analysis is the idea that in childhood,
as a coping mechanism, most of us produce something that in TA is called a life script.
And this tends to be mostly unconscious, though some of us are aware of this strange
guiding narrative deeply embedded in our emotions and psychology.
And most of us continue to play out the life script, and often aspects of it are derived
from stories we've heard or seen and fairy tales and things like this.
And most of us will continue to play out the life script, even if it's toxic and destructive.
And TA, one of the potential benefits of TA is helping us to see through this process.
And thus, if we're going to be following the script, we might want to rewrite the one that
we were using to cope with impossible problems as children, and produce one that
we'd actually like to live through and follow in some way, a script that is healthy and
has plenty of space for creativity and wonder, opportunity for learning and development.
So most of us experience, many of us anyway, the if we don't experience the urge to be productive,
we may experience the shame of not having been productive.
And so there's some evaluative behavior going on in the aspect of awareness that's
engaged here, though there's more than one. The one that I'm concerned about is the one
I'll refer to as the productivity driver. And it's as if we have a distinct sort of personality,
in fact, each of the drivers are a bit like, they're not really like machines.
They're like specialists. And just like our institutions, we have these features of our
mind, our psychology, our psyche, maybe, that when they are funded,
they really want to continue to persist and remain dominant in consciousness.
And so there is a, for example, there's something that I refer to as a threat sentinel,
an aspect of awareness that's looking for threats. And there's an opportunity sentinel,
an aspect that's looking for opportunity. And all kinds, there's many different forms of
these specialized aspects of our minds that would have very different forms.
Have we not been imprinted with the popular forms, quote unquote, or the common forms
that we're introduced to in childhood and continue to remain subject to throughout most of our lives,
in a general sense. Of course, everyone has unique experience of all these things and
different cohorts and different societies and different traditions and habits,
purposes and drivers arise in different places and different human lives.
It's very important to remain aware of the incredible diversity and uniqueness of our
natural humanity, especially in a situation where most of what we see gets compressed into
a compellingly impoverished branches of form and mode species.
We all have this productivity aspect, well, most of us, and it can be useful in helping us
to pursue long-term goals because life is unpredictable,
death and illness, misadventure, and so on, are all part of what's going on.
And so, we may be inclined in a general way to trade long-term
significant benefit for short-term insignificant benefit, and the aspects of our society that
feed on our attention are well aware of this. And over the past 20 or 30 years,
the attention span of the common human being, spectator, student,
viewer, has dropped so dramatically that when people are trained to write
or write for film, they're told that you have about two and a half seconds to capture
the attention of the audience, and you'll be able to maintain that attention for about
seven seconds before you are required to recapture it.
So, we're actually training the people who make literature and film
to continue to exacerbate this problem. One imagines a future situation
where it's so hard to summon the faculties of awareness and attention
that we may have to be mechanically stimulated to do so for even short periods of time.
May that never come to pass.
Nonetheless, our productivity driver,
the aspect of our awareness that says, you know, get up, get out of bed, get things done
is important, and I don't want to cast shade on it.
And yet, it can easily be misguided, and
many of us will experience situations in which
a displacement occurs. We may be starving or empty, isolated or frightened, anxious,
confused, frustrated, alone, and these feelings can be displaced into productivity,
where at least we will get some sort of feeling of accomplishment or reward rather than none.
Normally, we might get really nourishing and important feelings of accomplishment and reward
from simply being human together throughout the day. But in contexts where that's not much of what's
going on, a displacement can happen because we're starving for seven kinds of nourishment
that we're getting a counterfeit version of two of.
And so we can become, for example, as I've certainly been at times in my life,
subject to what's called workaholism. We can become workaholics, which means that we're addicted
to being engaged in activities that are posed as productive and are, in some limited, usually
limited way, productive, and at least at the end of the day, when we become horizontal
for the time of rest and sleep and dreaming.
There's an accountant who might make an appearance there and did other times during the day.
An aspect of awareness that tries to evaluate whether or not we were effective, potent, productive,
successful.
Most of the behaviors, habits, and systems that we're engaged with
are either inherently meaningless or they rob our experience of meaningful dimensionality.
And that dimensionality is almost always relational.
Though each of us is unique and some of us may prefer isolation,
and that's good because a cohort of humans needs diverse members.
It needs specialists.
And that way, the skills that we can embody and enact as humans
don't have to be possessed by every member of the cohort.
The necessities of survival and development can occur and be enacted in a shared environment
in the same way that a pod of dolphins
might have one or two members that are particularly adept at sensing threats,
one or two members who are particularly adept at sensing opportunities,
one or two members that are particularly good at inviting the pod into play.
And you can see how societies are structured this way.
When we have needs that we cannot locally fulfill,
we can take advantage of the existence of specialists and specialized cohorts
to do things that would be otherwise impossible for us.
Surgery is one example, but medicine is a strange and troubling example,
even though overall its seeming success looks statistically valid.
We don't tend to count the iatrogenic damage imposed
on the people who obtain medical treatments.
There's all kinds of dark stories in that realm,
and it's not my intent to cast shade on medicine, though the kinds of medicine that are popular
and that are practiced in doctor's offices and hospitals around the world
are still very primitive and have been themselves colonized
by processes and imperatives that are not authentic
in the sense that their goal is to produce power, profit, domination or control
rather than healing.
Well, I hear the woodpecker again
from yesterday that I heard in the same place at the same time yesterday,
and I'll just mention briefly that if you encounter something beautiful or mysterious
in nature and you would like to encounter it again,
go to that proximity at the same time another day.
And the same is kind of true of humans.
If I saw someone who I thought was very interesting or I wanted to meet them,
perhaps the woman I was just speaking with a little while ago, Debbie,
I might find her on that same path around the same time,
perhaps on the same day of the week but possibly on every day or many days.
So last night I was thinking about productivity and I feel the urge to be productive and I feel
some shame or disappointment when I'm not quote being productive, unquote.
But you can see how the generalization is quite dangerous because
what is actually being produced?
And is it truly valuable or does it merely simulate value?
And this is something that our productivity guy or gal or whatever
is often not particularly sensitive to.
It really just wants things it can count, right?
It's a very accounting oriented aspect to some of our entranced with productivity.
And it's useful to introduce some awareness around this I think and it can be medicinal and in fact
with the right kinds of awareness we can radically transform our lives, our life paths,
our effect on other beings in the world and other humans
in ways that are deeply meaningful and trustworthy.
But when our interior world is impoverished and dies back, undergoes extinction events like our
planet does in the ongoing waves that never stop of colonization by thrips.
These are can be thought of as processes that act like organisms in the network of human mind.
In other words, they compete for dominance, reproductive rights and terrain.
And so our productivity drivers are often originate, they often originate
from thrips that we've been exposed to and may have undergone uptake of
in childhood throughout our lives.
Last night I was thinking about productivity in an unusual way.
Someone I'm very close with had a conversation with her yesterday and
it was beautiful and tentative and thoughtful and sensitive and
in some ways very energetic.
And the conversation we had for me was nourishing and nurturing and reassuring
in ways that are uncommon in my experience.
In my own life I have many close relationships, well many is a relative idea, but I have a number
of close relationships with people who I've actually never met in person.
And for some of these people in some of our exchanges part of what I'm trying to do without
formally intending to do this is to encourage and inspire
the people that I love and to give them hope in times of darkness, fear, anxiety, confusion, isolation.
And I don't do this because it's my job, though there may be some relation here with my life script.
But yesterday I realized
that when we are able to interact with a living place or an animal, plants, even insects, small
creatures, but particularly other human beings, if we are able
to light the spark of hope within them, particularly in times when their interior
is filled with darkness and trouble and hope is precious and rare,
when we can encourage and inspire and deeply care for and hold each other's hearts together.
This exceeds almost all ideas of productivity. If in a day of my life or your life
we're able to rekindle
the original light that we bring to our birth in another human being
and perhaps also in ourselves, as often those are mutual experiences,
while that is a real success that obliterates counting,
that's a meaningful and profound expression of the possibilities of our human activity,
which isn't to say that there aren't many others, there are. And not all of our
productive behavior should be dismissed to make food for other beings, to clean up a place that's
been destroyed by pollution or garbage, to tend to the sick, the newborn, the elderly,
the injured, the psychologically damaged, the emotionally damaged people.
All of these things are beautiful,
though they too can be captured and counterfeited in various ways.
So I was thinking about productivity and yesterday was a really lucky day in a way,
or a blessed day, depending on how we might want to think about it,
in that not only was my own hope rekindled,
but I was able to be of kind and gentle assistance
to another person in whom hope had largely disappeared. And when hope disappears,
something else rises in that absence.
And that something can be extremely grim or dark or destructive,
filled with rage or hatred or shame, pain, confusion, fear, despair.
So in the evening last night, as I was
briefly considering with gratitude, the conversation with my beloved companion
that brought me hope, it suddenly dawned on me that that was a kind of productivity
I hadn't really been counting.
And in order to engage in that productivity, there has to be space,
there has to be temporal space, there has to be intentional space, emotional space.
And as many of us are too familiar with,
the imperatives that underlie the colonization of our moment-to-moment consciousness,
particularly by the strange and confusing imperatives
that arise in the wake of our relationship with technologies and machines.
We can see how time itself is being colonized and how the rhythms and tempos and cadences
so fundamental to our human development and fulfillment
are lost in the noise of a million meaningless transactions.
Those rhythms are fundamental to our well-being.
And I'm hopeful that we can learn together to explore them and resurrect them
in each other's hearts and lives and experience day to day,
but particularly during times of crisis, catastrophe, loss.
For in times of crisis, gentle gestures of loving care
and mutual, deep mutual concern and awareness,
they, their power to heal and nurture us is dramatically expanded.
And some of us become aware of that and may choose life paths
that place us directly in crisis with others.
Doctors and nurses, soldiers and police officers,
therapists, various kinds.
Repair people, people who repair the machines, our lives orbit and depend upon.
These vocations enact the awareness that when there's trouble,
rescue is profoundly valuable.
Mutual concern profoundly valuable.
Given the current situation with our species and its confusions
about what is valuable,
given the fact that the ecologies
that are the origin of our capacity to live and survive
are collapsing under the cruel claw
of consumption, capitalism, overpopulation, luxury seeking.
We should expect that
much of that damage will be offloaded into various cohorts and individuals
and none of us are immune to that.
Fundamentally, we're in a shared context that's invisible,
usually to our ideas and thought.
And so, there really isn't anywhere to hide damage.
The semblance of it being hidden is deceptive.
It's a very small planet
in the vast ocean of time space.
And as our people grow more profuse and
continue to develop machines and chemistries and technologies
that are fundamentally lethal if even slightly misapplied,
we can expect both a lot more crisis
and a profound increase in the value
and meaningful richness of authentic mutual engagement concern
and purpose of orientation,
particularly reorientation where lethal purposes are exchanged
for noble purposes, truthful purposes, authentic purposes.
One of my friends last night was complaining in great misery
about the effects of the media to which he's been constantly exposed since childhood.
And somehow in the conversation, the word, rather strange and dangerous word, truth arose.
And I said, you know,
I'm capable of sophisticated thought, articulate speech.
I'm capable of creativity and invention, inspiration.
But when I'm thirsty or hungry for something deeply true,
I'm inclined to mistrust language and the aspects of consciousness involved in
making face noises like I'm doing now.
Because I'm aware of the inclination of my consciousness to collapse toward structure.
And to be motivated to do this
by various kinds of inner impoverishment.
And so again, you can see this problem with displacement.
If I can say something very clever, I get a little ego reward.
If not the candy bar, at least the wrapper.
And my friend said something about, well, where do you go when you need something truthful?
What do you do? How do you find truth?
And I responded that I implicitly trust the living world.
The plants, the animals, the insects, the fishes, the microorganisms, the living places.
For they do not dissemble.
They can't lie, though some of them are capable of mimicry,
which is a whole other interesting topic that we can explore sometime.
And again, that I've explored in other videos.
And interestingly, the dreaming mind and perhaps
the character of our right hemisphe, right cerebral hemisphere,
it doesn't lie.
In fact, it's not very interested in language or assertion.
And when it becomes so, that's a sign that the waking consciousness is already intruding.
Of course, that's not the only thing that goes on.
Unfortunately, it appears from research that the left hemisphere in which
the primary linguistic skills dwell, the right hemisphere can understand language.
It's just not so great at admitting it, making it.
But the left hemisphere is fascinated by language.
And if it's unconnected, right, if we disconnect it from
the right hemisphere, if we disconnect the waking cane from the dreaming able,
then often the result is a bizarre kind of monster
that absolutely believes anything that can be said.
And absolute belief is a very dangerous thing in this sense.
Also, it has no problem lying.
It will happily lie to preserve its own superiority, appearance of superiority,
dominance, appearance of dominance, its rectitude.
I think it would be wonderful if we could all together help each other to remember
that real productivity doesn't look like stamping 100 certificates
or selling 100 insurance policies or
making some physical situation occur on some timeline, like in a factory.
Our capacity for real productivity depends on deep and meaningful relationships
with ourselves and with others.
And many of the most beautiful and rich aspects of these capacities
have nothing really to do with counting things.
And are unlike our ordinary expectations of productivity,
granting that it's useful to clean the house or do the dishes or go through the fridge,
take the old food out,
take the garbage out.
So I remember yesterday evening I was overwhelmed and I was like, I was thinking,
man, if somebody manages to introduce hope into a situation that was previously hopeless,
where some living place or being an animal, plant, especially humans,
was in great despair and travail, and we can just bring a little bit of relief with our loving kindness,
our mutual concern, and taking the time to pay deep attention to one another.
Wow, that just seems incredibly productive.
Yesterday I got very few things accomplished, but someone brought me the gift of hope,
and later I gave that gift to another who was in profound distress.
And I hesitate to even call that productivity.
It's not the kind of thing my accountant usually notices, like a productivity driver guy.
He doesn't wake me up in the morning and say, okay, time to save some hearts and lives.
Let's rekindle hope. Let's find the people who are suffering and intravail and bring them something
beautiful today. No, no, he says, let's make some money and make sure we can pay the rent. And
when was the last time you vacuumed? And is the laundry folded?
Is the larder stocked? Do I have to go to the doctor or the dentist or
the therapist?
And all of those things can have value.
But I suppose in my heart, I'm a devotee of mutual rescue, concern, healing, learning, play, wonder, joy.
I was startled as I recognized, ah, today someone rekindled my hope.
And I was able, which I think of as a humbling privilege, to bring that gift to another.
Wow, that was a fucking success. That was worth the candle in the struggle.
And it overwhelms the swarming throng of meaningless transactions
that may otherwise overcome the entire space of our day, or our week, or our month, or our year,
or even our life path.
When we're able to make enough space to repurpose productivity and the ideas surrounding it,
there's a beautiful jungle
of living truth that isn't true
by logic or rationality or accounting.
It's a different species of truth. It's silent
in our living interior, in our hearts and souls.
And when this truth underlies our purposes,
I suspect that we please not only ourselves,
but maybe our entire lineage, our ancestors, and the ancestral places and being, and all the beings,
even the divine beings, if there be such beings, which I suspect there are.
That seems a wonderful and trustworthy form of success.
And I'm grateful to have had this time today to explore it a little bit with you.
So thank you for walking with me and imagining with me and exploring together.
I look forward to our next adventure, and I hope that you do too. Bye-bye for now.
