The world is changing. In ways many of us have long expected, or predicted, but nearly
none of us have ever experienced. I'm here in the little garden near my home, and unfortunately,
there's not much I can do about the traffic noise. The sound of machines in my life has long
been a cruel kind of music that drowns out the vastly more intelligent signals and conversations
of living beings and living places. One of the things I perhaps most peculiarly despise is when
machines emit sounds that have been engineered by humans, or perhaps are recordings of living
beings or places. I'm not a fan of machines. In fact, I am a Luddite. Someone has cut off the
flowers of the sage plant, as you can see here. One of my favorite plants, and this looks like it
was done by people who call themselves gardeners. If we were to cut off your flowers, or my flowers,
then I think we'd both feel that we'd been cruelly deprived of something fundamental.
But this is an excellent example of this very common human propensity to cruelly regularize
things. To make these little boxes, which I've spoken about before, and which my friend, Ryan
First Diver, was kind enough to alert me to the existence of the incredible, staggering
ubiquity of rectangles in our lives. The thing I am making this video on right now is one of those
things. The thing you will watch it on is one of those things, a rectangle. A shape that occurs
nearly nowhere in the natural world, and might be properly understood as the fundamental fingerprint
of a lethal overlay that is the result, I think, of something we might perceive as our relationship
with representational intelligence, with language, with ideas, with the peculiar character of some
aspects we know to be at least associated with our left hemispheres. And here I will reference
the book I am so grateful was written by someone else who thus rescued me from having to write it,
Ian McGilchrist's book, The Master and His Emissary. This is a book by a neuroscientist on
hemispheric lateralization, and certainly we are in early days of understanding hemispheric
lateralization. But one of its results is a world like this one, with rectangles and machines,
and their noisome necessities everywhere around us. Now, I'll admit that it's much easier for us to
compose rectangles than it is to compose irregular, circular, organic shapes like these.
No? It's vastly simpler, and you know, there's some aspect of our modern minds that is hungry
for the absence of the messiness of organism. Ironically, the origins of that impetus are
precisely in organism. It's one of my favorite plants, and I can see that once again, gardeners
have been nearby chopping off its flowers. When we do this to humans, we call it circumcision,
and it should be obvious to everyone that if you live on a planet where the adults are in the habit
of vivisecting their children's genitalia, and furthermore have exotic spiritual narratives
about the necessity of this, something has gone horribly fucking wrong with human intelligence.
But as we can see from examples here in the garden, this problem isn't limited to our
relationship with animals. Apparently, some gardeners believe that sage plants shouldn't
have flowers, and I want to be clear, these weren't snipped off so that someone could take
flowers home and have flowers in a vase. This tradition is not one that I'm extremely opposed
to ethically or philosophically, even though if we think carefully about it, it's fairly bizarre.
We can all understand the beauty and the fragrant wonder of having flowers in our homes.
This is some other kind of thing, because this plant doesn't produce beautiful flowers that you
want in your house. It doesn't do that. It's just innocently being here, and unfortunately,
the flowers stick out. They come out to, effectively, they're violating the rectangle.
They're intruding in some diseased gardener's mind. They're intruding on the walking space.
However, these flowers here were not similarly edited, for reasons I'm not entirely clear about.
But for some time, somebody's been really interested in chopping up the white sage plant,
and I suspect some form of damage to their intelligence or their minds.
I'm going to walk across the street to an vacant lot, which often, it's owned by someone,
and it's really bizarre that in a place where land is a commodity and is so incredibly valuable,
there would be this vacant lot here, but there is one. There's this great big vacant lot,
and this thing must be worth millions of dollars, but every once in a while,
some strange sort of carny-like groups of people come here and set up Christmas tree farms or
around Halloween, there's a pumpkin farm. Now, obviously, we have a rather bizarre and complex
relationship with, well, let's just call them the reproductive elements of the living world.
Fruits and vegetables and grains. These are the reproductive elements of the class of organisms
we refer to as vegetation. Of course, mushrooms are also reproductive elements
of the class of organisms we refer to as fungi.
In my view, it's probably somewhat wiser to start with a unity, to see the living
effulgences of Earth first as a single superorganism, and then only secondarily and only for hopefully
intelligent purposes to distinguish carefully between them, and not merely for the purposes
of classification, or transformation to commodity, which is a game we should be extremely cautious
about since once we start playing that game, we invent systemic overlays. By the way, you'll notice
the appearance of interesting rectangles, giant ones behind and around me. Once we start playing
that game of seeing things as commodities, we get problems like the noise you hear all around me,
and disembodied systems that compete against the history and future of life on Earth,
as well as our own species, for reproductive rights, terrain dominance, and
a successful self-propagation. Now, today, the reason that I'm making this video right now
is that I'm kind of on fire at the moment. Of course, if you will come to me with an
interesting question or just the hope that we might explore together, you'll probably find me on fire.
It doesn't mean I'm always on fire. When I'm by myself, it may or may not be true of me.
But for the moment I am, because I was listening to a podcast on the portal hosted by Eric
Weinstein, with a man who hopefully I can remember his name correctly. I believe his name
is David Schmocktenberger. One of the most intelligent people I've ever heard speak,
really, really, refreshingly brilliant in his particular fields of expertise and understanding
and concern. And I think that podcast number 27 was on how to avoid apocalypse. Now, in a way,
that sound that just passed me is a kind of apocalypse, right? For the moment it destroyed
everything. It completely invades my physical senses. And I'll admit that I'm perhaps more
sensitive than your average Joe or Jane. But I'm not so ridiculously sensitive that I can't
continue to pursue my life or that my heart will stop beating or that I'll immediately start crying
when I hear that sound. However, when I hear sounds like that, the idea of just falling down and
weeping seems to me completely commensurate with what's actually going on. Because that is the sound
of something that obliterates the foundations of life on earth, its histories, its futures.
That is the sound of oblivion. And Eric Weinstein, the host of his podcast, The Portal,
is a truly brilliant guy. Very obvious. Listen to him for 10 minutes and you'll be able to tell
with whom I disagree about all kinds of fundamental things.
I don't really think those are important for me to
sketch or frame at the moment. Rather, what I'd like to talk about is why
those two brilliant men, and I encourage you to listen to this podcast if you find any of these
topics interesting, maybe even if you don't. They're trying to understand an array of phenomenon
that are indeed quite puzzling. How our species got into the incredibly sophisticated, ironic,
predicament. There's another word I wanted there, but I couldn't find it. That we currently
are experiencing, and of course, we've been experiencing this predicament for a long time.
What's happening now is relatively severe ramifications of our predicament have come
home to roost. And part of how we got here is that there isn't really a we. In fact, the thing,
the monster that exists in the place that our collectivity might otherwise exist,
is a golem-like construct that is absolutely motivated by a process where
slaughtering and erasing living places and beings and aspects of organismal existence
is hidden, pushed off to the side, and is turned into commodities like profit or power, money.
And this strange predicament is the result of
of peculiar aspects of our formally representational cognitive habits.
So they don't really understand it, although they both have interesting explanations.
And I'm not going to claim that I understand it either, but I have some perspectives that might
be useful. And one of them is that there's a deadly ramification of our relationship with
representations, with tokens that refer to things, with language, with concepts, with models,
with abstraction. And one of those deadly consequences is that if we don't pay very
careful attention, if we're unaware of this problem, if we don't pay careful attention,
and our ancestors, our ancient ancestors were aware of and suffered from the consequences of this
problem, if we don't pay very careful attention, something, a kind of monstrous, disembodied system,
a golem-like thing, inhabits, takes over, dominates the space of the between of us
that otherwise would host our intelligent, sensitive, humane, skillful, noble humanity,
those aspects of our humanity that qualify for those adjectives.
And no one understands this, and people are busy blaming each other, or some faction,
or the devil, or whatever you like, right, for this problem, which has been with humanity since,
at least, we became an animal capable of making words. But we have failed horribly to understand
and respond to this incipient threat that, left untended, will almost certainly obliterate us
if not, indeed, the possibility of life on this world. And there are many people who say, like,
oh, well, that's, that'll never happen. The world's been through all kinds of catastrophes.
How the fuck would they know? The fact that it didn't happen before doesn't mean it won't happen
now. Planets can die. A cell can be lies. If one of the things the earth most resembles,
as Lewis Thomas, in his brilliant book, The Life of a Cell, recommended,
or suggested, if one of the things the earth most resembles is a cell, then it's relatively easy
to end that. And in modern times, where we face threats like, I mean, we've been facing nuclear
weapons for a long time, we have, there are biotechnological threats, like CRISPR, that's
C-R-I-S-P-R, for those of you who don't know anything about that, feel free to take a moment and look
it up. I used to be able to translate that acronym, but at the moment, I'm busy elsewhere in my mind.
Threats like CRISPR and machine and object proliferation, environmental toxicification,
conversion of anciently conserved ecologies into commodities, these kinds of threats make it
extremely reasonable to imagine that, first of all, it's entirely conceivable that we could
wipe out humans. That's a relatively near, near to hand, less low-hanging fruit, right?
And I think that would be tragic for lots of different reasons, one of which being that I
believe that each of the life forms of earth is both an expression of the inherent history and
character and nature of the biosphere, but also as a participant in the super-organism of earth,
in a way not unlike bacteria, our participants in necessary participants in our human bodies.
For a long time, we had this wrong and thought that germs were dangerous. Of course, half of our
bodies, cellularly speaking, were comprised of these things we thought were dangerous,
so we went on this pogrom of developing antibiotics, which in fact are useful for saving human
lives in situations of certain kinds of infections, but we had no idea what the future consequences
of such technological development would be. And one of the things they are and have been and
have become, you know, people are terrified of vaccines, they should be vastly more afraid of
all kinds of ordinary things that are all around us, but particularly antibiotics, which
occasionally save our lives, but very regularly transform our genomes permanently,
not to mention transforming the genomes of the microbiota that comprise half the cells in our
bodies in ways that are irreversible. But back to my point, and that is that
until and unless we together urgently recognize that there's something that
monstrous, that qualifies as a demon in all the, you know, ordinary ways of understanding
what that word might refer to, there's something monstrous that qualifies as a demon that is
disembodied and system-like that has inhabited and is dominating the between of us. What we would
refer to as our sociopolitical systems, our economic systems, our philosophical systems,
our religious systems, totally dominated those things,
our relationships with each other, with knowledge itself, with the environment, with meaning,
with value, with time, with space, with understanding, there's something wicked
that has overcome the between of human beings. And it's extremely puzzling from outside to
understand why it is, for example, that in 2020, we're still using a political system engineered
sometime around the 1700s, not that it hasn't been slightly modified since then, in an attempt to
manage a nightmarish conglomerate of forces that are essentially competing to wipe out life in new
and more profitable ways per moment and have been doing this for so long that we've now
accomplished atrocities previously unimaginable. No one believed that humans could obliterate
the bison from the Americas, but they did. No one believed that humans could ever obliterate
the life in the ocean, but we've come very close to that. No one would have imagined that we could
wipe out the entire Amazon rainforest, but apparently soybeans are more valuable than
the unimaginably sophisticated, anciently conserved ecologies and relationships and biomolecules
that we're seething in that incredible paradise of life.
And we wonder, like, you know, it wasn't me, right? I didn't go and drop the bomb on Hiroshima. I
didn't personally wipe out the oceans. I didn't burn down the Amazon rainforests. And I am not
responsible for the almost comically ironic confusion presently reigning in the place of what
might otherwise be social intelligence in the modern nations. But something did, right? Something
is doing that. And when the word we is used, strangely, we're not actually referring to us.
We're referring to this bizarre intruder that has taken over the between of us and is running us
as if we were its conscripts, as if we were its employees, as if we were its slaves,
as if we were its shadow. Yeah? And nobody seems to understand or have clear awareness
that this is going on. And that until each of us individually becomes capable both of recognizing
and responding to this in small groups that can form super groups, bluntly, we are fucked.
And I don't mean like we're a little bit fucked. I mean, ambient waves of cascading catastrophe
are going to continuously be dropped on those of us who manage to fucking survive the next goddamn
10 minutes. That's what I mean. We are fucked. If we can't make together a move that results in
the capacity for humans to assemble intelligent, humane, skillful societies, then that thing,
that parasitic anti-being that is presently dominating our collectivity,
will wipe us out, own us, and reduce the heroic lives and dreams and work and sweat and suffering,
not merely of our ancestors, but of all of life on earth, to a fucking ash heap,
and it will sit there grinning atop it. And whether I'm not making a metaphysical argument,
I'm not trying to claim there are demons. I'm saying that where there are humans
in unconscious collectivity as we are,
something either resembling a demon or worse arises. And when we pay no attention and pretend
some other thing is happening,
then over time, that disembodied repercussion of our absence from intentional intelligent
collectivity becomes demonic in the malignant sense of that word. Yes, there are other senses of that
word. There are senses that refer, for example, to something resembling the personal or
collective genius, the spirit of prodigy. This word didn't always indicate
a malignant spiritual force. But if you want to understand why we are where we are,
then just understand that as our species has sped intentionally away from intelligent
collectivity toward technologies of abstraction and abstract commodification of living beings
and systems and processes and relationships, in the void thus produced, emerged a monster.
And it doesn't have to be a being. It can be nothing more
than the absence of integrity in the between of our relationships and our humanity,
in the between of our own hearts and our intellects.
And we've seen over and over again throughout history examples of
the repercussions of ignoring this. Yet our species as a whole has failed
to recognize the absolute urgency and immediacy of the problem.
It's incredible ambience. It's shot through everything we do and are involved with,
but particularly, perhaps, two things, money and politics.
So I've been thinking about these matters for a long time and I believe that it's conceivable
that we could return to awareness and to intelligent communality together so that
when I use the word we, it doesn't refer to the absence of our collectivity. It's not just a bucket
in which you put the entire human race so that you can refer to them now with a single word,
somewhat unconsciously. We have to establish meaningful collectivity and if we don't,
we're going to get the opposite and that won't last much longer because the earth could survive
this kind of insanity and so could our species when, you know, there were half a billion of us
or a billion of us or maybe even three billion of us for a while, but it's not going to survive
for ten more fucking minutes when there's not only seven and a half billion of us. There's a
fucking trillion machines, right? We're propagating objects so quickly that the biosphere can't absorb
the damage anymore at all, right? And I'm not claiming that our current situation, which is a
very sophisticated and confusing one, with the coronavirus is a direct result of that. It may
well be. It's certainly a result of humans behaving ignorantly and continuing to behave ignorantly
and, you know, with wild confusion and effusive religiosity, right, in the face of something
that's rather blatantly physical, not that it has no other dimensions of existence or meaning,
but in any case, we're catastrophically confused as a people. The things we refer to as leaders,
those aren't leaders. Those are fucking cartoon characters. If you think you can survive the
choices they'll make, well, you're in for a wild ride. Those people are incapable of, you know,
directing a toy car, let alone a nation as complex and sophisticated and technologically
advanced, if we dare use that word, as ours is. So I'm trying to offer an explanation here
and a path forward, right? I'm saying that much like we are concerned that our bodies may be
invaded by a virus, which is not exactly a living thing, what it is, in a way, is a little particle
of something that turns living cells into little particle factories. Yep. And that
is analogous to what we've become in the living environment of Earth. We turn living places
into factories that produce dead objects by the trillions. And then we have to, you know, justify
that and dispose of those and we breed like crazy, but it's not so much our breeding that's the
problem. It's the explosive breeding of machines that our people have become the fucking reproductive
organs of. Meanwhile, we're snipping the fucking flowers off of plants and we're circumcising our
children, apparently because there's some religious directive to do so with the kids. So I hope you
can see that there's a problem that's abstract and disembodied in the place that our intelligent,
skillful human collectivity must invade. And we must succeed at that invasion. We must cast out
the demonic interloper that in the guise of systems, financial, commercial,
legal, political, religious, philosophical, intellectual, spiritual
is running us and has been for a long fucking time. And we have to do it now. And the reason
that we have to do it now is simple. Elon Musk, a man who I profoundly disagree with
and whose technical intelligence is inarguable, but whose embodied intelligence
may be catastrophically lacking, presented the argument that we should get off earth as quickly
as possible because there may be a very small window during which we have that option. He might
be right about that, that there's a small window. Space, however, is catastrophically inhospitable
to organisms like us. And so, you know, my rebuttal is that we need a mission to earth. We need to
save this paradisical place that is the only place we know of where life can thrive and flourish,
life, complex animal life, and sophisticated ecological life. We need to rescue this place.
Never mind believing we can escape the shitstorm we've initiated here by going to Mars.
But what I would argue is something not dissimilar. We may have an extremely narrow window during which
we have the capacity to establish something resembling intelligent human collectivity
for the moment we still have that capacity. If we do it now, together, if we make that a priority,
we can certainly accomplish it. We got humans to the moon. We can get humans to intelligent
collectivity on earth today. But that window could be very narrow, and I suspect it is. And if we have
to wait until our hand is forced, then the resources we will have to work with will be
catastrophically impoverished compared to what we could do immediately if we turn our minds
and our intentions toward this together. And I can certainly recommend
the seeds from which such a transformation could arise and systems that we could put in place
to encourage and reward such behavior on the collective and the personal level.
Clouds are exquisite. Sky is beautiful.
And many of these flowers have not yet had their genitalia snipped off.
One of the reasons I'm so passionate about this topic is that
it's my perspective and understanding, and I can support this, that we undergo the cognitive
and relational version of circumcision. We have our intimate relational capacities
circumcised, surgically altered when we're children, and we call this alteration education.
It isn't. It never was, and it never will be. But we could establish something that
resembles what education mimics, and we must. And if we should join together in that goal,
then at least we'll have the chance to understand
something resembling the true potential of our human births
and the nobilities associated with our humanity, the virtues associated with our humanity,
and that's an experience that every human being deserves access to, deserves to no first hand.
And so for now, with these thoughts urgently in mind, I'll wish you health and safety.
I'll wish you every blessing. Bye-bye for now.
you
