It's an unseasonably warm day here in San Francisco, it's the great entrance
cedar and the beautiful walnut tree that is not yet waking up. We're about two
days into this moon cycle. It's the Eagle Moon, although the phenological
relationships and activities of living places and living beings, they differ
dramatically from place to place. In some places it is still very cold. In the
place that I live it almost never becomes very cold and it nearly never
snows, though in the long time that I've been kind of stuck here, sort of shipwrecked
here. It did do something resembling snowing one time in the 90s. Today it's
about 70 degrees. I think we're two days into this moon and the moon is named
because the raptors, and particularly the owls, will tend to be mating and
setting up nests around this time. Many birds only live in nests when they are
mating and producing eggs and young. I'm not clear if there are birds that don't
do that, if there are birds that sort of live in nests all the time, and some of
the birds like the crows and ravens and perhaps other corvids, that's a family
name, I guess, corvids, they have a special trees they select for nesting.
They're very particular about selecting nest locations and these may have to do
with the proximity or non-proximity of other birds. For example, hummingbirds
that nest in the proximity of raptors appear to have a much higher successful
fledged rate between 70 and 80% as opposed to 15 to 23% for hummingbirds
that don't nest near raptors. Part of that appears to be because there's a
relationship between the raptors, the hummingbirds, and the corvids. Corvids
are inclined to prey on hummingbird eggs and children, but they're not inclined
to approach very closely to raptor nests. It may be that raptors sometimes attempt
to prey on corvid children, it's not clear to me how often that succeeds, the
corvids are pretty fierce defenders and are astonishingly aware of the
activity, the nearby presence or activity of raptors. But particularly, they don't.
Well, the corvids are diurnal, so I'm speaking about diurnal raptors like hawks
and eagles and kestrels and things like this, whereas owls may succeed. I don't
know a lot about the habits of owls in terms of their, and I'm sure they differ
from species to species in place to place. In terms of their capacity to
prey on other bird species, and particularly on the young of other
birds, the humans are inclined to think about relationships in nature in a
kind of tripolar way, either they're friendly, they're neutral, or they're
enemies. My own perspective on that is that the actual nature of these
relationships is much more complex. The corvids, crows and ravens, will
chase hawks and eagles, but they also seem to have
forms of relationship with hawks and eagles and owls that are far more
sophisticated than the idea of an enemy. And when they encounter them, they don't
so much try to kill them when they encounter hawks or eagles. They rarely
try to kill them, which they might be able to succeed at, particularly on moss
in a group. Rather, it seems a very complex kind of behavior ensues that to
humans resembles harassment, but again is I think far more complex than our far
too simplistic models could support. And I think this is true of vast, vast domains
thousands of years ago, before the relationships with language and knowledge
that dominate us today, but those relationships have changed even in the
past 20 years, 50 years, 100 years, 300 years, 1,000 years. We've undergone as
human beings a very sophisticated array of developmental cycles and what we might
be inclined to call progress, but I'm not using the word development here to
necessarily indicate progress. I'm using it to indicate transformation. We've
undergone change. And one of my areas of research that fascinates me
very deeply is an area often referred to with the phrase the evolution of human
consciousness. Excuse me for just a moment. Now again, with the term evolution,
we are inclined to think of that as in general, many of us are inclined to think
of that because we're sort of trained to do that by casual conversation and by
the habits of speaking and thinking habits of other people we encounter, common
people, even researchers in some cases. We use the word evolution, we think of
progressive development, that better benefits a crew over time, which is not,
that's a casual use of a scientific term. And when we think of development, we
tend to think of the same thing. We think of progressive, beneficial, you know,
sophistication. And yet development can simply mean the transformations over time,
right? So that although a human person might reach their prime, so to speak, in
their 30s or 40s, development includes old age and death. Development includes the
loss of strength, health, faculties, resistance to disease. Development includes
aging. So when I'm using this term development or the evolution of human
consciousness, that phrase, I'm not merely thinking of beneficial advances. I'm
thinking also of catastrophic losses, confusions. It is not in any way clear to
me that modern humans, however sophisticated and rational, we have
become with the onset of science and the development of industrialization and
technologies and computation and so on and so forth. It's not entirely clear to
me that those developments represent progress. Particularly if they're
disinclined to actually help our species to survive or far more seriously if they
result in the eradication of the anciently conserved ecologies of earth, of our
species, or even where they result in damage to the potentials and scope of
our human intelligence. I think many of us would be inclined to celebrate the
birth and development of scientific thought, which certainly did rescue us
from a vast array of undesirable thoughts, beliefs and behaviors. Us being a kind of
catchall term, not referring to any specific group of humans but to humans
in general. And yet at the same time, science and technology are extremely
dangerous for our species. The results of our scientific discovery and education,
the results of our technological sophistication, are in many cases lethal.
In that they can mis-focus our awareness, our understanding, our relationships, our
priorities, and they can produce catastrophic effects in the environment
when employed by the supercultures that presently dominate the behavior of our
species. So without needing or wanting necessarily to attack science or even
technology, what I will say is that unfortunately we are like a child who's
given something that's developmentally toxic and children seem to live in a much
faster domain of developmental time than adults do, so that even modest exposure
in children can produce catastrophic effects that would take much longer term
exposure in adults. And I suppose what I'm suggesting is that, well, just to put
it simply, we've not yet developed supercultures intelligent enough to enable
us as a species to be selective in the ways we employ scientific knowledge and
technology, and in the purposes we employ them for. We are in a crisis where it
appears that as our capacities for scientific and technological behaviors have
increased and become more sophisticated over a relatively extremely short period
of time, say 50 years, 60 years, 100 years, if you wish, our social and
relational intelligence has paid a devastating price, has undergone an array
of unique losses and devastations, and this I expect to continue.
So two of the domains of learning that fascinate me are the evolution of human
consciousness, what was it like to be, what was the life of the mind like for a
person 20,000 years ago? What did they see when they looked at the sky and they
did not have our scientific stories? What did they experience? What were they
thinking? What were their concerns? What was the nature of their relationships with
each other and the living world? What was the origin of the knowledge they most
valued? What did they have in the place that our science and rationality and
technology took over? And although there are phases in which we can say well they
had superstitions, it's not entirely clear to me that, in fact, I am quite certain
that's not all they had. And much of what we might think of as superstition
today, in its native time and situation in place, many of these things were other
forms of intelligence. And some of them related to understandings and
relationships that we've not only forgotten or misrepresented, we might be
incapable of imagining them. If we're never having experienced anything even vaguely
similar, we would have difficulty understanding or producing an image or a
feeling that would give us a sense of what it was that ancient peoples thought
and felt and were motivated by and for. Yet it's clear to me that some of those
things were extremely sophisticated and validly profound. So the evolution of
consciousness is one of the topics that have fascinated me and there aren't a
great number, well, I'm not aware of a great number of books on the topic. A
couple that stand out to immediate reference are Bruno Snell's The Discovery of
the Mind, which is a fascinating idea that talks essentially about the, what we
might reasonably refer to as the birth of the intellect. Another fascinating and
brilliant book, however confused some aspects of it are, particularly perhaps as
regards neuroscience, is The Origins of Consciousness in the Breakdown of the
Bicameral Mind by Julian James. And both of these books had very significant
effects on me, the latter much more so than the former. The latter is a true
tour de force of somebody I consider to be an incredible prodigy. And the other
domain that fascinates me is an array of perspectives that are related to what I
will call ways of knowing. Science is a way of knowing. Language imposes certain
inclinations on what and how we will know, how we will direct our attention for
what purposes, so on and so forth. Mathematics is a way of knowing. Relationships, to have a
relationship with a being or human or group or living place is a way of knowing.
And there are many things, many, many aspects of human behavior and experience
that might qualify as ways of knowing. Some of them relatively narrow, some of them
relatively broad. Eating food is a way of knowing. What we acquire from food informs
our bodies. Exercise is a way of knowing. Martial arts is a way of knowing. Tai Chi,
a way of knowing. Writing is a way of knowing and learning. So there's a vast
spectrum of ways of knowing and some of the ways of knowing common in our
ancient ancestors remain in us as unawakened potentials. And this fascinates me.
And this is part of why today we have what we call an English religions. And this word
can be used in various ways. But religions tend to refer to a very peculiar aspect of our capacity
to frame identity. And the aspect they refer to is the ultimate aspect of identity. Religions
ask us to believe models of why the universe exists, why there are human beings, what the
purpose of our lives and minds are, so forth, so on, so forth. And I believe that what we
call religions are the highly structured representational remains of the human sociocultural
and ideational activity of the ancients. As the intellect became more pronounced and more
distinct in the evolution of human consciousness or the development of human consciousness.
So too, religions became more virulent, more forceful, more aggressive, more domineering.
And one might even say more hateful. Now, of course, we have weird analogs of religion
or offshoots. There's other ways to use the idea of religion to believe something that,
to just sort of furiously believe some idea or opinion, regardless of evidence or argument or
experience to the contrary, could be understood as a religion. And certain kinds of psychosis
resemble an aspect of religious ideation. So there's other ways we can use this word if we're so
inclined. We can use it just to mean a very strongly held opinion or belief. I suspect that the modern
surviving religions are the developmental children of ancestors whose actual forms and
purposes might be very surprising to us, where we able to encounter them. But one thing is clear,
humans have been fascinated and compelled by traditions and ceremonies. And by relation,
the idea, at least, of relation with non-human intelligence, intelligences that we might
ordinarily classify as divine. Probably not very long ago, the ideas that surround a philosophy
called Eliminative Materialism would have been impossible for anyone to have. You can look up
Eliminative Materialism, if you wish, but essentially, to put a very clumsy nutshell around it,
it's a philosophy that believes that there are no, how should we put it, that there is nothing
supernatural, that our minds are little more than the byproduct of the chemical activity of our
brains. There is nothing before life, there is nothing after life. The idea of divinity is
nonsensical, and that what we have is actually simply a physical universe with processes accidentally
produced, that we mistake for having domains of identity and meaning that they do not have.
And long ago, such an idea would have been impossible to form. By long ago, I mean five to ten
thousand years ago, once the intellect was born, it was at least conceivable that somebody could,
in theory, dispose of the gods. It's unclear to me whether anyone did, or what the birth of
Eliminative Materialism was, but I suspect it was relatively recent, though it may have had,
there may have been philosophies that at least resembled or were precursors to it.
Is there a secret underlying array of intelligences and relationships? Are there a secret underlying
arrays of intelligences, beings, and relationships? Invisible to our common waking thought and
experience, but yet somehow accessible to us as human beings. This is a question each of us will
have some kind of unique relationship with throughout our lives, and that relationship will be largely,
if not overwhelmingly determined by the culture and time that we're born in, the minds to whom we
are exposed, whether or not we can achieve something like escape velocity from the sociocultural
baggage that we acquire as we mature in human culture. And lots of other variables, our own
inclinations, our own curiosity, our own passion. Accidents, too, can have a huge effect on whether
or not we even become concerned with such questions, and to what degree, and for what purposes. Many
very intelligent people have become concerned with religion because they see it as a threat,
and it's certainly not an unreasonable view. And so they've spent their lives attacking,
particularly the Abrahamic faiths, Judaism, Christianity, and Islam. Though they are most of
the people who are thusly inclined, are pretty happy to attack nearly any actual religion.
Not all of the practices that orbit this token religion are alike, and it's not my
purpose here to survey them. But there are things, for example, like Zen Buddhism,
that maybe ever so slightly resembles a religion in that it has a kind of ceremonial form,
and yet, and maybe even acknowledges the placeholders of deity-like figures such as Buddha or Tara,
and yet at the same time denies the existence of such, fundamentally kind of denies the existence
of such beings, and seeks to, it's an array of practices and traditions that seek to break through
the mind, and perhaps the ego, to an experience of the essence of being,
which is in Buddhism often spoken of as empty. But it's not mere nothingness, I think. Of course,
once I say I think, I'm pretty much screwed in terms of Buddhism, or Zen Buddhism anyway.
Perhaps it means something like pure undifferentiated potential, or empty of continuous form.
But there's something very clear to me in the history of
the evolution of human consciousness, that there are at least two sort of forces or
aspects at play over, say, the last 5,000 years, and these aspects do not tend to play well together.
One of them is fairly intent on dominating and subsuming the other, and I speak here of
the city builders, and the nomads.
And just because we may feel disinclined to participate in religion,
doesn't mean there's nothing to be, nothing useful to learn from
studying and understanding it, not by a long shot. Because in religion, and the study of religion,
we will find
knowledge and evidence that can help us to partly at least reconstruct the evolution of human consciousness.
And we can also find
stories and metaphors and analogies that are fundamentally important
to understanding the nature, conflicts and symmetries of consciousness, as well as its
developmental pulse throughout history. Now, of course,
historical anthropology, anthropology in general, these disciplines are fraught with
all kinds of problems. It doesn't mean they should be dismissed, it means that we should
be careful how literally we take their maps and suggestions and descriptions, explanations,
histories, and so on. They are studies, and as studies, they are attempts to understand
or explain the remnants that we can work with in our modern human concerns and
contexts, whether they are academic or personal or, you know, cultural, whatever they may be.
But it does seem there was long ago, and still to this day, in a sense,
a conflict between the peoples who were settled and built cities, and these would be the
origins of the supercultures within which we are trapped today, the city builders,
and the people who traveled and were nomads. And obviously, these two peoples are going to
have radically different kinds of relationships with other human beings, with the sky, the sun,
the moon, the stars, the planets, particularly Venus and maybe Jupiter, but also Mars.
Some of the other planets may have possibly been visible or in some unexpected way
discoverable or familiar to our distant ancestors.
And when I say
in some way, I don't exclude non-ordinary ways, ways that are not merely rationally explainable.
So, the humans who built cities and who were settled, and who developed agriculture,
settled agriculture, these became us, they sort of came into conflict with the peoples who were
nomadic, and the former generally had a rather deleterious relationship with the latter to put
it mildly. So, if the histories that come down to us through,
for example, Judaism have any verity, if they have validity, then the Jews and nomadic tribal
people, composed of at least at some point, 12 tribes, were repeatedly enslaved over time.
Most recently in the history of the Tanakh, which is referred to as the Old Testament in English,
by the Egyptians.
But we may, there's some reasonable degree of evidence that that was not the first time this
happened. And of course, in the Americas, probably wildly misnamed place, colonists from Europe
came to South and North America, and essentially wiped out and enslaved
both tribal peoples, and the kind of nascent city-building peoples that existed at least
in South America, and conceivably in some parts of North America. Whether or not there was anything
resembling cities by the time the colonists got to North America seems unlikely, but there do seem to
be ruins that suggest that there was something like settled broad-scale settlements
at some point in North American history in some places.
So the city-builders would have a very different array of relationships with living places, the land,
animals, other human beings, and unfortunately for the city-builders, those relationships
were inclined to become utilitarian. In other words, they were inclined to become consumers
of land and animals. And when one becomes a consumer in this way,
crucially important, very sophisticated domains of relationships that would otherwise naturally
arise and exist in consciousness, behavior, thought, and emotion disappear.
Many of the nomadic peoples had sophisticated ceremonial traditions
that don't precisely match our idea of religion.
They were ways of preserving and celebrating
non-ordinary experience, events, stories, and catastrophes, successes, and mistakes
that formed the framework around which minds were woven.
And unfortunately, for all of the benefits, all the seeming benefits, and profanity of science,
it seems to me an insufficient framework around which to weave a living mind,
and perhaps a very dangerous one.
I walk now in a garden surrounded by the ancestors, the myriadly formed ancestors,
that are the developmental repercussions
of the first moment of life on this world.
And there may have been more than one first moment, in more than one place, in more than one time,
and we don't yet know whether all of these incredible forms that surround me, these living,
embodied intelligences, I call them this, even though some other humans might contest
with me and say, that bamboo is not an intelligence, those gnats are not an intelligence,
I would happily defend my position if I thought it useful.
But not only are all of the living things intelligences that our own
arises only in relation with them, and this understanding that the nature of our own minds
and souls, should we have them, and intelligence, is intimately dependent on the living contexts
in which we exist, and can be catastrophically damaged when those contexts are turned into
pure structure, like cities and computers and screens and so on.
These kinds of ideas, I believe, were familiar, meaning of my family,
to ancient peoples. They knew that the relationship between the raven and the hawk
was not merely enmity. It was something much more sophisticated and complex, and something that had
something that represented in the physical, in what we can observe in the ordinary,
that was representative of a vast array of non-ordinary aspects that were not immediately
visible, derivable, from what we might see or think, particularly if we are thinking,
for example, like a biologist or an ornithologist. No slight intended.
So it seems to me that for all of the profound benefits that science can potentially represent
for human beings, it's not yet clear whether our acquisition of this form of knowledge will wipe us
out, and if it does, was it beneficial? If our relationships with science and technology result
in the devastation of the anciently preserved animals and ecologies with which our own minds
arose and which we require Congress with to become and remain intelligent and to develop our intelligence,
if our relationships with science and technology wipe those crucial aspects out,
were they ever good?
Our species is unprepared
for what we are referring to as the advancements of science and technology. We're not yet intelligent
enough to embody them,
and certainly plenty of harm, at least not just against humans, but against environments and so on
and so forth, was also caused by religion. There's no doubt that specifically the
religions that I spoke of earlier, the Abrahamic faiths, caused vast cataclysms,
and may yet accomplish the apocalypse apparently predicted in Christianity.
How ironic it would be if the sort of prophetic faith turned out not to be so prophetic as it was
generative of deadly futures and bad things to come. Certainly there is the potential for
unimaginably constrictive ignorance in the human relationship with the modern religions.
And perhaps part of that is because they're inclined to declare what behaviors and activities
are good and what behaviors and activities are evil, and to declare these categorically.
And certainly many of the things proposed as evil are not very good,
but not all of them are not very good. And some of them are evil, but they're not always evil.
So it's a very complicated moral and ethical dilemma that religion places us in.
On this warm day, there are many ravens playing and
cavorting and opportunistically looking for food in the garden. It's nice to see,
I like those animals, very fond of them, extremely intelligent.
But what I was getting at was that I think our ancestors were aware that they were
nestled in a field of concentric circles of intelligence and that the living beings that
surrounded them were, in a sense, the embodiments, the natural embodiments of
metanatural or pre-physical phenomenon, the precursors to physical phenomenon,
the forces that shape and in character physical phenomenon. And for these forces,
they had great reverence and with these forces they had relationships.
And some people who are unwilling to imagine such things will simply say,
well, sure, they imagined that the forces that shape the branch and the trunk and the leaf and
the wing and the eye and the hand and the mind, forces which should rationally be understood
to be physical, perfectly natural and ordinary.
They believed those forces, they thought of them as beings and I refused to do so.
One of the fascinating things about human intelligence and our nature is that we
have a profound capacity for diversity.
Someone came here and attacked this tree.
And it looks like they did so. In fact, I'm quite sure they did so with a tool, an implement.
It wouldn't be possible for them to have done this much damage with their hands.
It seems a very strange thing to do, kind of demented, mean thing to do.
I wonder what was in their mind.
You can see here evidence of a tool. There are these four little holes.
Let's see if I can, yeah, there we go. These four little holes here.
I haven't even discussed the bizarre idea that nature is some fiendishly opposed to human
existence, some force that has to be vanquished or conquered.
In case it isn't obvious, the conquering of nature leads to the obliteration of human
intelligence and humanity. We're not at war with nature, we never were.
Though our species has long been relatively vulnerable, in that we're big, fleshy,
thin-skinned animals without claws,
without tentacles, without stingers. We have some relatively strong teeth, but it's pretty hard
to use those in combat and get away with it. One of the things that made us formidable
was our capacity to project
stones and arrows and eventually bullets and then radiation and things like this, missiles.
Eventually, at some point in our history, we became skillful throwers of things,
and then we learned to augment that skill by producing technologies like the bow,
the spear first and then the bow. Our capacity to make blades out of stones was very important,
but in the early days, before we were very good with implements, these would be the very early
days I'm guessing, because implements go quite a ways back with our people, we were vulnerable
to predators, and there were huge predators around like panthers and grizzly bears and
lions and tigers and things that would certainly be happy to eat our children if not our adults,
and our adults too if they could get their hands on them.
That I think left a kind of psychic residue in our species that there were also disasters,
like sudden unexplained disasters, volcanoes or meteor strikes or floods or earthquakes
that perhaps the ancient people and still some insane moderns today think of as,
well, whether they're all insane or not, I can't say, but they thought of them as, you know,
the gods punishing us like nature and the divine beings would become angry with humans
and would, you know, slap them down.
So those aspects of our historical development have had repercussions and they led to this
weird colonial idea that nature was something to be conquered, which I find both tragic and bizarre.
Here's a couple of the ravens.
Let's see if I'm actually displaying those birds well.
I can't really tell because I can't see what the camera is displaying.
Huh?
So I can't tell if the ravens are being shown or not.
And I think the birds nearby are mostly crows, though these two birds I think are ravens.
And they're awesome.
So
the origins of consciousness in our species
are not the results of technology.
They're the results of relationships.
And I would argue that one of the, there's a number of features that are unique to the kind
of animal we are, particularly our opposable thumbs in our hands, our capacity to walk upright,
our ability to build, eventually to build tools and shelter because of our unusually formed hands.
These things can be argued to have been technological and they certainly deeply impacted our
cognitive evolution, the evolution of consciousness in our species.
And they continue to today in ways that are often as terrifying as they are astonishing
and ways that, again, pose the significant threat of eliminating our species or permanently
damaging the atmospheric envelope of the planet or even wiping out life on earth.
I think very few people
who are careful thinkers believe that our species has the capacity to end life on earth,
but I'm fairly certain we do.
There are very specifically delicate aspects
of the terrestrial environment
that are subject to catastrophic destabilization.
Now, it's conceivable that if we return the planet to some kind of magmic,
lava-like state, not inconceivable eventuality,
with no atmosphere, that there'd be nothing alive here.
But it's also conceivable that we could wipe out all the complex life
and be left with the planet capable of sustaining only the microbial life
or certain forms of microbial life.
And complex plants and animals would disappear forever.
These seem to me to be realistically conceivable dangers, and I can even think of ways
that are relatively small and not particularly adept.
Group of humans might be able to pull that off if that became their goal.
I'll keep those ideas to myself until I go to the grave,
because some of them are a little too accessible.
And unfortunately, modern humans, when they can,
it's very uncommon that they can imagine a weapon that they won't build,
our desire to conquer or have victory over some other group or situation,
is a very conflicted desire that can easily end up with us conquering
the capacity for us to survive anymore, in case this isn't obvious.
One of the fascinating avenues of exploration in, you know, war is a way of knowing,
as well. Combat is a way of knowing.
In fact, some men who fight would argue that you really don't know a guy
till you've been in a brawl with him.
And some other men might argue that you really don't know a guy till you've had sex with him.
And some women might argue something similar about men or women or, you know,
they might argue about fighting, something similar.
And it's not entirely untrue, like I said, fighting is a way of knowing,
even when we have verbal, you know, conflicts and we yell and maybe bang on things,
hopefully not people or animals or anything alive.
And we're learning, we learn, because when we
slip beyond the mask of calm
relation,
when we allow the highly charged, formidable emotions to rise and sort of
take control to some degree of the vehicle of our voices and our bodies,
then we get an unusually intimate
experience of what's been hiding underneath that calm, seemingly calm surface.
And that's an important aspect of our humanity. We can't simply ignore it or wish it away.
Some people would argue that we want to have victory over that,
that we need to conquer our desire for violent conflict.
And there are wonderful arguments for this, many of which I find quite compelling.
I tend to be a relatively calm and gentle person myself.
Kindness and mercy are values that I deeply admire and strive to embody,
yet there are situations in which I would set them aside
for the sake of protecting or defending
someone or myself or
a way of my way of life or something like this,
at least conceivably, very rarely if I ever been challenged to actually do so, almost never.
Though I have in my imagination, perhaps most of us have many of us anyway.
So, there is, strangely in our species, this underlying
thread of violence as a kind of intimacy or perhaps
a replacement for intimacies we've suffered the losses of.
Now, I have many perspectives on the origins of the modern consciousness
that most of us or many of us experience today, participate in today.
And I don't necessarily think of it as something that happens to us, it's really
whatever our consciousness is, it's like part nature, part nurture, part habit.
Our minds become what we do most commonly with them and their qualities and characters
derive from the purposes for which we enact what we might refer to as the shaping of awareness or
consciousness. And it has always been thus. And one of the things I was suggesting earlier is that
the purposes familiar to the settled city builders were radically different than the
purposes familiar to the nomadic tribes.
And that over time these two things continued to diverge and the city builders became conquerors.
Whereas the tribes were not terribly interested in conquering, although perhaps in
areas where there was a combination of tribal and superculture, there were combinations of these
two modes. Wherever there were cities, apparently in the ancient world, they at least occasionally
went to war. So we have to come to terms with that somehow. And it's not my intention to explain it
at the moment, except that perhaps, well, there's an aspect of my thought, by the way, these are,
I'm going to switch topics dramatically here for a moment. These are salvia flowers.
And if you pull one of these out of its bracket, you get something like this.
And you can get a droplet of nectar.
It's really good. It's very sagey. And each kind of salvia flower like that produces a different
flavor of an nectar. But yeah, it's more nectar than in a honeysuckle.
I don't deeply understand the origins of violence and war in our species.
One could pragmatically argue, for example, that it's a kind of
control valve for overpopulation or something like this. But I think that's an insufficient argument.
And I also think that some of the ceremonies and traditions of the city builders,
for example, the tradition that we refer to in modern times as human sacrifice,
which might have been called a very different thing by those people.
Those traditions and ceremonies have complex underpinnings. We are not,
we are not in a position to properly understand. But one of them might have been
the awareness that the imposition of a city on the living, on the face of the living land
was an extremely costly and devastating endeavor that required the obliteration
of many, many living beings, many animals, many plants every day to sustain it.
And so in an effort to acquire the forgiveness of the land or the sun or the holy beings,
the sun and the moon, the morning star, companion star, the sky beings,
that would certainly visit destruction justifiably on people who only took,
we gave something back of our own, something precious to us, we gave it back.
Now,
to the modern mind, this could sound insane. And perhaps there is some insanity in there,
I don't know. But I also know that we didn't live in the world they live in.
And we presume with our modern rational minds that the world was always the same thing,
the sky was always the same thing, humans were always the same thing. It cannot be so.
It simply cannot be so. And while it may be very difficult to say what they were,
if they were not just as they are today, identity
and human thought and experience, understanding, relation,
and knowledge is very, very sophisticated manifold. It's not a single derivable thing.
And it can't be merely rational for reasons that I'm not prepared to delve into at length
at the moment. For something to be rational, it requires a secondary aspect
capable of determining whether the thing qualifies as rational or not. And that
secondary aspect is not merely rational, in my view. And the view of other intelligent people who I
find some consonance with their perspectives.
There is something hopeful in my long and passionate exploration
of the origins of human consciousness and intelligence, understanding and awareness.
And that is that when I began to wonder what it was that the ancient people saw when they
looked to the sky, it did not immediately occur to me that I might be able to have the experience
they had. But I think it's conceivable. And the reason that I think it's conceivable is that
whatever we call our mind is, much like our human body, all of the ages we have ever been.
And so somehow, it seems to me, I'm not trying to convince anyone of this, I'm merely suggesting
it to those intrepid enough to explore in this direction. We contain the minds of our ancestors.
And there are certain kinds of motivations, circumstances and experiences that will ignite
those potentials in us, that will draw them up from their labyrinthine
submergence in us. And they will emerge directly in the consciousness we have in the moment,
as our own minds. And that's very hopeful, because I'm interested, I want to know
the scope and breadth of my humanity, and of the humanity of others. And I want to know
how we became as we are today, how we were in days of yore, what are our potentials,
what are the possibilities. And without having direct access to a vast array of ways of knowing,
I think we become very narrowly trapped in perspectives, occupations and mindsets
that are impoverished compared to our deepest essence, our nature, our potential,
our passionate desire. We live in a world where our deepest instinctual yearnings
are overpowered by representations and superficiality and fashion and opinion, nonsense, information.
Literally something that has some kind of gravity that draws us into a formation
with other human beings that is unworthy of embodying.
So I want to know the breadth and scope of our capacities for intelligence, and I want to know
the history of our minds. I want to know the origins of not just my own soul, but of life on
earth, of the family of terrestrial organisms, a family that I see fundamentally as unified.
I see it as one thing first and only separable
as a convenience of language or
representational thought, distinction. I want to know the soul of the world. I want to know the soul
of the sky. I want to know the origins of the most profound emotions that have moved me
in brief moments throughout my life and sometimes become storms of ecstasy that led me far beyond
anything I imagined possible for my mind into places so astonishing
that compared to them some of stories
that I had ever been exposed to
were almost meaningless.
I want to learn. I want to learn to see. I want to clarify that site.
I want to be free of the kinds of blindness that have infected human minds for eons
and that are particularly contagious and popular in the time in which I live now.
And if you do too, then please be encouraged and reassured before I say that you contain the
minds of the ancients and that they are within you accessible. And though I will not tell you
precisely how to seek or activate them, I will say this much.
A noble purpose passionately held
through success and failure
through hardship and confusion
a truly noble purpose truly passionately held
is an excellent catalyst
for contact with the minds that dwell
unseen and largely unacknowledged in all of us.
Wise dreams to you for now.
