Hello, everybody. Welcome.
It's evening, and I'm out for a walk at Stow Lake.
And I can see so much that is ordinarily occluded to my awareness.
The spirit in the shapes that the painter's art worships of the trees and the landscape and the sky and the water and the clouds.
All these beautiful living gestures of frozen dance resonant with unseen movements and spirit, adoration, wonder, play, awe, humor, joy, ecstasy.
I can sense it, particularly in the pulsing of the reflections of the light on the water beneath the branches of a tree.
Something had set up slow, long waves. These waves were intruding into the reflection of the branchy structure beneath the tree.
And it was pulsing and warping.
And I could feel those pulses as if they were movements of my own soul for a moment there.
And I was transfixed like some enchanted anti-narcissus who sees everything other than his own reflection in the water and is completely captivated by this.
I have long believed that the slow strangulation of the dreaming aspect of our awareness
that we undergo in childhood is perhaps the primordial trauma, if not chief among a hierarchy of them.
Certainly, if it is our goal to survey the traumas of childhood or adulthood, we will find no dearth of candidates.
And it's not my goal to survey those traumas. However, that one, I remember a friend of mine who had long been an atheist, I think, said to me that, and I may be misquoting my friend here in some ways,
but she said that she remembers the last prayer she urgently addressed to the sky, so to speak.
And it was simply, don't let my creativity die. Don't make me live without my creativity.
Which one could hear as don't let them kill the dreaming in my waking experience.
And it's clear to me from my observation, all of it mostly retroactive of my dreaming, that the intelligences at play there have profoundly more complex dimensions.
But if I have a dimensionality, then those of my rational, categorical, conceptual mind, which in truth tends to flatten most things into descriptions or explanations.
Literally, X plan means to bind it to the plane, to exterminate it into flatness.
And of course, that urge is the death of participation.
It does produce some benefits like reduced vigilance. You don't have to pay attention to anything that's dead.
So if you fancy yourself a prophet, or you like to make predictions in the way that physics and science do, or that physics and science are motivated to do,
you've got to start out with dead terrain. The more of it you kill, the better your predictions become.
And absolutely dead terrain. Now your predictions are extremely powerful and you look like a wizard.
Right, because life is novelty embodied.
So, I've often mused that what we're missing, most of us most of the time while we're awake, when we're trapped in our ordinary cages of waking world thought and behavior,
get this, do that, pay this, acquire that, manipulate this, straighten that.
The incredible tedium of waking consciousness for many of us, much of the time.
The tedium through which we seek, for which we seek, escape in sex, drugs, rock and roll, crime, violence, debauchery, television shows, Netflix, ice cream, you know, cigarettes.
Pick your poison. There's a virtual and a real cornucopia, or cornucopia of them.
You know, with which we can, I'm distracted by my surroundings.
A young woman was just igniting a joint while speaking some ghetto shit to her friend.
In almost a perfect example of what my awareness at that moment was sculpting, right, in consciousness, a kind of synchronicity, if you will.
I myself am recovering from some tragic misadventures over the holidays, one of which included becoming quite ill, most likely not with COVID, five tests later.
So when you hear the rasping in my breath, that's what it's from.
So dreaming, right? Most of waking consciousness is actually a single game, and whenever we can get close to one of these roots of the form and function of the cognition that we enact without knowing its structure, whenever we can begin to see that structure into that structure together or alone.
New newly minted freedoms are on their way. We will gain degrees of liberty that have otherwise been impossible to imagine, let alone enact, embody.
And one of the primary things we are doing, I am doing it right now. I've mentioned this many times in my videos, but it's very difficult to deliver the realization of this. An analogy would do it better than a description, so I'm going to have to come up with an analogy, and I will commit to that.
But for the moment, I will allow a description to suffice.
Okay, no. I'm going to give an analogy.
Imagine a living moving flock of birds or school of fish, a murmuration, and then you take some kind of a plane, right, like a sheet of paper or canvas or wood or steel.
And you just crush a single moment of the murmuration, you just crush it against that plane, and you begin picking apart, you pull the gore out, you pull the bones out, you pull the feathers off, the scales, the fins.
And what you have is sort of an arbitrarily structured snowflake-like remnant, which you then etch into the plate so that most of the subtlety is lost or destroyed on purpose.
And you end up with like a stick figure pattern.
So this is what we're usually doing in consciousness, where consciousness is categorical or abstract rather than participatory and relational.
The dreaming mind is obviously fundamentally the latter. The waking mind, obviously, fundamentally akin to the former.
In waking consciousness, what I'm doing right now in order to emit strings of words is I am collapsing a manifold.
So if the manifold is a hyperdimensional bubble structure, I am collapsing it along known and habituated intersections, these are the categories, what things are, what they do, what they are for,
what is in fact the sound of one hand clapping. Half a mind is clapping against the absence of its other half, and that produces the desire for the knowledge of what something is, does, is for, is worth, and so on.
So this is the antithesis of the dreaming mind. The dreaming mind does not care what something is. It does not care what it is worth. It does not care who it looks like.
A rock could in fact be my sister to my dreaming mind, and the sisterliness of the rock is the important quality, not which category, you know, is the appropriate derivation, right, the canonical derivation.
My sister is a girl, therefore this rock cannot be my sister.
Now one can, you know, be concerned about the dreaming mind and say, for example, yes, well that just admits of nonsense.
Well, the problem with that perspective is that what's actually mostly going on is the opposite of absence, right, the kind of lethally self-constructing absurdity that you get from conceptual, categorical cognition
that produces the standing waves of atrocity we call civilization and so forth.
This stuff is lethally malignantly, malignantly omniscidally. It'll kill up everything it can anytime it gets a chance just to make more of itself.
And it does the same thing with our minds, most of the time. It's not its only function. There are features of logic, rationality, scientific concern and so forth.
That may be noble when, you know, if and only if they are guided by the trustworthy faculties that form the origin and basis of our consciousness.
And I would argue that these faculties profoundly more resemble the dreaming mind than they do the rational mind.
The rational mind is what you get when you kill that other stuff off mostly.
And so for many years, I thought, surely it's the absence of the dreaming mind in our waking experience that deprives us of the vital pulse and heartbeat
of participation in our experience.
And I still, okay, because here's the thing. If the waking mind's modus operandi is collapsing the manifold,
hyperdimensional bubble collapses along intersections until you get a stick figure.
Keep collapsing it until you get, yes, no, this, that. And when you're done, produce that result as true, valid, proof.
What's important, what counts and so forth.
My over-emphasis, hyperbolize the value of the strange result.
If that's the common activity of the waking mind, the dreaming mind intelligently re-introduces meaningful dimensionality
in the domain of identity, meaning, function, value, and so forth.
So it naturally re-bubbleizes and not just thought, but participated experience, the stuff you actually feel in your bones, in your viscera.
It brings all that back to life.
And I think the worst trauma, or one of the bad ones at least of childhood, is the slow eviction, strangulatory eviction of those faculties from our waking experience.
And we're told, for example, you grow out of the urge to play. It's fucking insane. Exactly did not happen.
No chance of that ever happening.
That loss is the result of a series of amputations, circumcisions, cruel, absurdly motivated.
Crimes against our interiority.
And what was the reason, what was driving this?
Well, civilization, money, property, religious and political ideologies, corporate ideologies.
Essentially demons, or vampires, or both.
Just eating the core, the origins of value in our experience and being, in our spirits, in our essence.
Just eating that stuff up, pinning the dead remains to the blackboard, making categorical face noises about those and then dismissing them.
That's what actually happened.
We did not grow out of play or imagination. It was killed off in us.
And even in those of us who managed to, usually through art, music, sometimes through science or mathematics,
we kept an array of torches burning in the window in case the long evicted creativity would return.
Or we kept pieces of it alive in the ways that aren't directly punished.
So many of my artist friends were just destroyed by their parents.
Particularly the fathers for having any interest in art or loving it or pursuing it at all.
And usually these were the children who were abject prodigies of creativity.
And their parents were like, it's not going to buy you a loaf of bread, bro.
You need to put that shit away. How many fucking times have I heard this?
Destroying the souls of my creative companions.
Plenty of us got away with it because we were able to both fulfill the economic necessities of life as an individual adult person
while maintaining some relationship with our creativity.
Now I've made it home a little sooner than expected.
So I keep ringing this bell.
But eventually I'm going to ring the bell that's just beyond it,
which is the one that oriented me in the beginning of my explorations here.
Water.
Alright.
So I thought to myself throughout much of the past 25 or 35 years of my life
but surely the dreaming mind is something like the origin of the birthplace of creativity
and its natural home and playground and so forth.
And I still believe that.
Well, I still suspect that and it matches up with a lot of my experience.
And what is magic if not the two powers of the sort of twin powers of consciousness itself
which are penetration and encompassment or causing to wave.
Like the waves in that water I saw earlier.
Yes, penetration certainly seems much more like the slice dice dissect and analyze of much of waking cognition
and the encompassment causing to wave resembles the dreaming very clearly.
So magic always, not that I'm terribly concerned with it,
but part of me is because the magic, the magical and the non-ordinary,
these seem like the same, like different words for the same thing,
usually depending on who's using them, how and why and so forth.
So anything that returns dimensionality to our participatory waking world experience,
art, dance, theater, music, so forth.
Play, humor, wonder.
These have the aura of magical origination in my common thought
or rather in how my psyche senses my experience in my common thought.
In my common thought things seem very mundane.
I know what objects are, they seem mostly dead inside.
Soon I seem similarly dead inside.
It's conceptual, it's categorical, it's abstract.
Only when the invitations to intimacies succeed,
and intimacies with nature and the sky and the living beings and the plants and animals and creatures
and the other humans and my own soul and so forth.
When those succeed then, then I come to life.
And I still suspect that this perspective is valuable.
It may not be the only useful one.
There are shadings and nuances about what we mean by the intelligences or faculties of the dreaming mind.
And there are problems as well with mental experience becoming incoherent
under certain kinds of transformations, particularly those that involve self-reflexivity,
like the generation of feedback in consciousness by the activity of consciousness.
If I begin to think very carefully for example of historical situations with other humans
where I was either, or with other living beings, not always humans,
where I was either disoriented or mismotivated or naive or selfish,
or if I think of, for example, very simple interactions,
say I have a bad moment with a clerk at the grocery store in which I am completely misunderstood
and indicted or even with a friend,
then if I continue to focus on those kinds of thoughts, eventually it will produce in my consciousness
a kind of a disturbed vibration, if you will, or vibration in terms of physics,
where it's as if the shape I'm applying to the water of consciousness tends to produce echoes of echoes of itself
and that reforges consciousness into a jagged sort of experience of despair, paranoia.
Analytical hyperfunction that is almost always displaced, right, it's not.
We think we've got the fundamental clue to the crime scene, but that turns out to be the fingerprint of our unconsciousness, right?
It's like we think we've, yeah, this is the nature of minds to be like this under certain kinds of stress or dysregulation.
I think the thing I was wanting to say was that one wonders what I wonder, even though I've had some related experience of my own,
that I have reason to trust is at least relatively authentic, one wonders what the shamans are doing
and they're changing into animals or they're traveling far to seek a crucial object or medicinal situation.
What are they doing?
And obviously it depends on what we mean by shaman and who is speaking and all of these things, they are true.
We have to be very careful with the language because of English.
In English we have these hypergeneral words like dream.
Surely there are 57 kinds of dreaming, maybe a thousand.
There's any arbitrary number of kinds of dreaming depending on how we want to arrange the curve and its segments, so to speak.
So the same is true of shamans, but what I mean is people who are capable of magically using their traveling body
or their dreaming body or their stalking body, what are they doing?
And I used to think they were, I was in my own experience as well, utilizing faculties native to dreaming,
but I now have suddenly become concerned that it may be an even stranger story than that,
that they are developing the faculties that can arise in the liminal phase transitions of waking to dreaming and dreaming to waking
in the hypnagogic and hypnopompic.
So I'm now quite suspicious that what they have in many cases done is mastered the between of waking and sleep,
and so they are not merely dreaming lucidly, though that may also be powerful and useful in some circumstances,
but rather they are traversing the twilight of consciousness and developing an array of faculties native only to those peculiar universes of experience.
I think they are mastering the between, the bridge ways, some of them at least.
And so it began to occur to me not very long ago that the keys to many features of our ability and our faculties and our humanity are hidden
in those mysterious and profound between phases where we are no longer awake yet we are not asleep,
we are not yet dreaming yet again our mind is not ordinarily structured and we are subject to storms.
There are storms in those transitions for those of you familiar with them.
There are things like lightning or whirlpools or except they are visceral experiences rather than necessarily extrinsic.
So yes, I think it's profound to bring the dreaming back into our waking world experience and art and play and curiosity and wonder and questioning and searching, seeking, questing.
These are all noble vehicles for the resurrection of our creativity, but I think the power of one who can walk in the twilight with awareness
is almost, first of all, is monumental. It may be so vast that it becomes dire, which would be unfortunate.
I think one must retain a sense of play in a quest of that nature if only to avoid the risk of it becoming autophagic, right, like self consuming.
Again, feedback. Well, the two things that we tend to do in consciousness are collapse manifolds or if we're playful, re-bubble-ize them.
Oh yeah, we produce feedback. Yeah, feedback is, and so some kinds of feedback are magical, some kinds are rational, some kinds are mathematical, some kinds are pathological.
But yes, one might even say we collapse manifolds in hope of the production of certain forms of feedback both in our own consciousness and in observers.
But my friends, I am not finished with this thought, but for the moment I will stop this weaving for there are other features of my life requiring my attention.
Thank you for joining me as always. I look forward to learning and exploring together again very soon. May your ways and lives be wise and beautiful. Bye bye for now.
