Hey everybody, it's a very strange day here in San Francisco for reasons that
aren't entirely clear. Today the light is different. There is smoke, but the
phenomenon that occurred today was truly unusual. It remained dark inside my
house throughout the day. Just as dark as night, I woke up at 9. It was like
at 8am. I woke up at 6. It was dark. I woke up at 9. It was dark. I fell asleep again.
I woke up at 12. It was still dark. There was this cognitive
dissonance in my mind. I'm like, is the clock, like the meaning of the clock
has changed? How am I to understand this? I'm lying in bed trying
to get a grip. Half-consciously, I'm not actually present and awake. I'm just
sort of mulling this over. It's 9 o'clock and there's no light. What? Does
9 o'clock not mean light anymore? Which is reminiscent of many aspects of our
modern experience, where fundamental things that we depend upon are changing
radically and mostly not in happy ways to put it mildly. I have my earphones in
but I'm not listening to anything. I was just too lazy to take them out.
There's a unique kind of silence here today. It's important to take the earpods
out because even though I can sort of feel it viscerally and there's plenty of
traffic noise up there, I need my ears to sense the silence, to sense its essence,
to sense what is carried in this specific kind of silence. I think we wrongly
presume that silence is the lack of information, but we certainly would
recognize immediately that humans in communicating can use silence in a
broad array of ways. Some of them very profound, some of them more
profound than speech can be. So as is often the case, our understanding of
many very important words in English that point at something we should have
essential experience of, we've lost all of this, most of us, because silence just
means no noise. No, that's not true. Silence is a signal and there are infinite
varieties of silence and the living places speak these old languages of
silence. And everything alive knows that today is a day unlike any other. It's
never been dark in the daytime. And recordings can't capture that silence.
In recordings, representations of relationships, that silence just comes
across as no data most of the time. There are ways to use silence that would
communicate to us even in recordings. And of course, there's rhythms and all
kinds of things. Silence is a part of rhythms, whereas the beat not. And we are
inclined, I think, partly by our habits with our senses to pay attention to the
beat, rather than, for example, the spaces between the beat. But musicians learned
to sense that space and transform it according to something at least
reasonably, at least analogically metaphysical. I was talking with a friend
about how difficult it can be to navigate, so to speak, in our present
circumstances. And we weren't really getting anywhere. And I said, look, if
you were a mariner, and there was a terrible storm and the stars were
hidden, and somehow the compass was lost, let's see, the compass is broken or
disappears. If you were an old, skillful mariner, you would read the waves. You'd
read the specific character in the context. And those waves might seem
ambiguous, but they're actually, if you have the deep understanding of the
water, those waves will tell you which direction is which. And so I was making
a sort of parable that we need to learn to read the silence, right, to read
ambiguity, because it's a library of senses. So this leads me to my little
story for the day. It's long been my habit to try to aid small organisms that find
themselves be calmed in the tread path of humans, because the humans won't see
them most of the time. And there are better places than the tread path for
them to recover. So I regularly handle bees, and, you know, here it gets cold,
the bees land on the sidewalk, trying to recuperate and maybe get some sunlight.
I always check this barrel here, ever since I found the dead raptor in it that drowned in it.
And that was a strange accident too. In any case,
I often handle bees and bumblebees and
I've found bumblebees and honeybees to be extremely docile in general.
Never have I been stung or anything. I've handled great big bumblebees.
So I have this standing presumption, right, that the bees and the bumblebees aren't going to sting me.
On the other day, though, I got buzzed by a large bumblebee, which has never happened before
that I know of. I don't recall a bumblebee in any way being aggressive with me. So,
you know, once I sort of at first didn't understand the phenomenon,
because I'm so used to my idea of it, right? But after a couple of, you know, serious,
like, scanning circles, big scanning circles right above me, I got the picture that,
you know, at the minimum, I wasn't welcome there. So I moved on and then the episode dissolved.
But I was curious because I was on a paved path. I didn't seem to have done anything
that I could, that I was aware of. But this bumblebee was troubled by me.
And so rather than just, you know, going with my, oh, bumblebees are fine right over, right,
I paid attention to the actual situation at hand, just as we might with silence.
So a little while ago, I was walking along and I saw a small male bumblebee in the path and I,
it's right in the middle of the paths where it would be likely to be stepped on. So
as I often do, I, you know, knelt down, put my finger in front of him for him to climb on it,
and I could tell it was a male. They're a lot smaller.
And the bees generally respond somewhat sluggishly and they might kind of, you know,
turn away a few times because they don't know what's going on. It's probably just a threat
and they're not equipped to deal with it because they can't fly.
But this bee responded unusually, right. When I put my finger down, it saw, it could see very,
it had clearly it was seeing well and it could see that something large had intruded and it kind
of reared up and sort of moved its abdomen like underneath toward the front, which looks like
a stinging gesture. I'm not positive whether or not the males have stingers, but I noticed
that the bee was not responding well in my, you know, well according to my plan.
It was not responding well and it looked like it was doing the fighter flight thing and since it
can't fly, so I thought better of getting it on my finger. I thought, not the right idea here.
I interrupted my normal, normally scheduled programming and I got a leaf
and, you know, started using the leaf and the bee was very aggressive toward the leaf. It sort of
latched onto it, sort of biting it and buzzing its wings. I could feel the buzz up the leaf,
but I got it on the leaf and it was still kind of pissed and attacking the leaf
and it looked like it was trying to sting the leaf.
So I just took it over to some nearby very fragrant tiny little flower clusters, right.
And I put the leaf against the flower cluster in such a way that the bee's legs would become involved
in the flower. And it kept fighting the leaf for a little bit, but then it noticed, wait,
there's nectar here. So it started both fighting the leaf and drinking some nectar.
And then I finally, after a little while, I didn't want it to fall with the leaf to the ground.
The leaf seemed heavy and if I let go, it would be holding up the weight of the leaf.
So I waited a little while and it seemed to calm down and get more interested in the flowers.
And then I let go of the leaf and it kind of clung on, kept sort of attacking the leaf a little
bit for a little while, but then eventually it realized there's no attacker here, all right,
and there's nectar. So eventually it sort of went with the nectar.
And I thought to myself, how like this little bee,
I often am and my people can be and our cultures are.
They're so busy trying to fight something. Now the bee was kind of justified, but
they're so busy trying to fight something that they can't tell if it can carry them to nectar.
And if it can, I mean, and it's not fighting you, you certainly don't have to fight it, right?
And I think part of the problem is we just don't get enough nectar. We don't get enough communal
nectar. We don't get enough imaginal nectar, enough erotic nectar, enough literary nectar,
intelligence nectar, wisdom nectar. And we do get a lot of counterfeits with tons of canned goods
you can buy for all this stuff. But nectar here means something we're deeply engaged in together
with meaningful community and other beings and nature are the fundamental assets underlying
our humanity hidden by our modernity. And so even when something comes along that's authentically
capable of transporting us to nectar, it's either it's so unusual to us that we freak out, right,
and flee or fight, or we're just so conditioned to be suspicious that we fight all the way to
the flowers. I mean, even once we're on them, we're still fighting away, you know, and someone could
say, well, what kinds of experiences are you talking about there? What do we do with this with?
And the other list is easier because it's mostly empty. What do we not do this with?
But we do it with ourselves. We do it with our projection of culture, or we do it with religion,
or we do it with politics, we do it with, and you know, pick your game. The humans are really good
at the fighting thing. Too good by half for their own good.
And there's a part of me that's really like that bee, right, ambiguity comes in. Hey, that's,
I'm not used to that. I can't tell what that is. I'm not going to, you know, I might want to push
back and go like, no, ambiguity don't come in. But it's often essential.
It's kind of like my mind locks up without a wonder and off-field relationship with
the unknown, with ambiguity, with indirect, you know, indirect intentions.
And I mentioned that last thing because it came up in a conversation with a close companion and,
you know, indirect intention under the right kind of under good circumstances allows us to hold
a superposition so that we don't collapse into too specific an agenda, right? And you can see
how important this is in anything that's nuanced or prodigious. And prodigy must be nuanced mostly to
qualify. So yeah, I just wanted to tell the story of the bee because it was fascinating to me
and revealing. And people ask, well, how do I learn things from nature? What is there to learn?
Well, if we watch nature very carefully from the human perspective, from a participatory
perspective, right, I wasn't just looking at the bee, I got involved in its survival.
Then what happens is all kinds of unique things. The dreaming mind becomes involved
in the adventure because you're touching a lineage member of an unimaginably sophisticated
network there I go using my favorite word again. But when the human finger reaches down, risking,
you know, my well-being to try to help this insect, that's a moment of magic.
And the universe responds to that stuff in a way that I don't have an explanation for.
It's one of those things that's easily dismissed with language but not encompassed by it.
What we can learn depends on how we are in the game. Why are we there?
How are we participating? Now, see, here's a creature that is moving incredibly slowly and
is right in the middle of the path.
And I could move it but I think it's mostly safe. This is a
this area, the park's rather desolate at the moment. And one of this snail's eye stalks is injured.
It's a right eye stalk.
I love them. They're amazing. There's no end of what can be learned by participating in nature,
but if we're outside the frame and looking more from the standpoint of representational
cognition than recognition and communion, then we're going to get pretty dry data.
That's a boy, that's a girl. This one fell over because of the storm.
It's not particularly exciting, although there are impassioned scientists who
at once see the beauty and participate and are also in the scientific game,
which is a weird conjugate since historically science's relationship with life forms
not particularly exemplary to put it mildly. When they touch
the emissary of one of the peoples, the living peoples of the earth,
most of the time bad things are going to happen.
I think humans, you know, we fear this too because we don't want to be treated clinically.
None of us. That would be some kind of curse. We don't even want our clinicians to treat us
clinically. And if they do, we become rightly terrified.
We are beings and other beings are beings. And when we are beings together,
that's when interesting stuff starts happening. And when we are not,
well, that's interesting too, but interesting in the way of studying a self-propagating
web of disaster cascades to find out what went wrong, how did this get started,
you know, which is one of the games I like to play, particularly with human consciousness.
And specifically with representational consciousness, because it's just such a minefield
and we're so innocent. The minds keep going off and we don't even notice, right? And half of us
has already been blown away by the time we're adults. It's recoverable for most of us, not everybody.
It's more easily recovered in communal endeavor together that seeks, that has this agreement of
purpose, right? But it's recoverable even to some modest degree, and sometimes to a great degree
in isolation. I've experienced many of us are having new dimensions of these days.
And I'm hopeful that my little videos might bring some comfort and curiosity and wonder and joy
into the lives of my very small audience. And it brings, you know, making these videos brings
that into mind. However, I have to admit, I'm fundamentally against following my smartphone
around in a living place. So there's always this conflict when I start to make a video.
I'm going to do the incredibly not good thing of following my smartphone around,
which means I'm going to miss most of what's going on around me. My friend, the Blue J, over here.
I saw a squirrel earlier shredding up some wood in a way that I've never seen before.
It looked like maybe nesting behavior. There's something to learn there too.
But no, this is my favorite book, The Living Place. The stories are endless. They're absolutely true.
The relationships matter. They're real. There's very little counterfeiting or representation going on,
at least not in the ways that it's affected my people.
You know, when we reach out to life, any organism, any person with kindness,
if we're not paying attention, we could be stung. My intentions were entirely good with the bee.
It was on a different channel, so I had to slow down and interrupt my expectations,
and my habits, and my thoughts, and my narrative. The bees are nice creatures. I can help them.
They will love me. No, I had to pay attention to what's right in front of me. And thankfully,
I did, because I would have at least been bitten, if not stung, and that wouldn't have gone well for
me or the bee that I was attempting to help. And then I might have formed a weird narrative,
because I got injured. So, oh, the bees are too dangerous to handle. I'm not going to rescue
or some bullshit. Because not because the bees are dangerous, because I wasn't paying attention.
It's just like when right near the spot that I'm walking now, following my camera,
I ended up standing on a yellow jacket nest. And I got really, really lucky at
time, or blessed, or however you want to think about it. But yeah, the nest was right in here.
In fact, maybe you can see the hole there.
Seems to be inactive at the moment.
But the nest was actually over the whole area, right? Even though the entrance
moved, the original entrance wasn't there.
Someone in conversation recently, I asked them a peculiar question about
the unique ways that the between of humans in deep relation with one another,
deep, passionate, intimate, curious, wonder relation with one another. The way that this
forges kinds of connections, forms of connection,
transception, maybe even clairvoyance.
Not maybe, actually. Although I wouldn't use that language, probably.
So we were talking about this, and
my partner in the conversation said, with great brilliance and childlike perfection,
it's a matter of not time.
And when I picked my brain up off the floor, I was staggered by this. It's one of the things we
don't have a way of saying in English at all. And it points to a position outside of time from
which all beings and moments and circumstances are accessible.
Or at least in my intellect. That's somewhat how I think of it. But it was so beautiful and innocent
to declare. It's a matter of not time.
The ecstatic unity that dwells in the between of all beings, infinitely accessible to humans,
almost completely
to humans that have become nearly completely divorced from it, nearly.
Our actual minds are, I think,
the local result of those relationships, moment to moment, instant to instant.
Not just in a cause and effect. Because there was a lot of relation a long time ago,
we got really smart, and now we're really smart, and everything else is dumb.
No, not like that. More like
there were explosive waves of some tropic symbiotic intelligence coursing around
a planet so fertile with life
that it was as if all of the possibility in local time space
collapsed into living beings here with minds and eyes and senses that formed a family.
And that family became so richly fertile with anciently evolved relational intelligences
that eventually it sort of raised a flower. Of course, it raised flowers all over the place.
And there in the places we don't tend to look, falipods, praying mantises, jumping spiders,
whales, dolphins, gorillas, in the places we look more often. Bees.
So there's a network, and when we remember
the doorway to that ecstatic communion of life that recognizes its inevitably mutual origin,
one family together in time space here. Then all the doors in the library
unlock, and you'll hear the sound, not in your ear, in your soul.
And when the first door unlocks, if you're modestly skillful in your relationships with living beings,
your mind won't merely be blown.
It'll be blown and then upgraded and then blown and then staggeringly advanced beyond anything
that was previously possible and then blown. And then that'll just keep going on because that's
the actual depth of the living library.
And I don't want to say any of these things. I'm not meaning them literally. I'm meaning them
as an attempt to point at something that it's impossible to encompass in language. The same
way it's, you can't really say what the experience of eating food is, even though you can describe it.
And it's similar with a kiss and it's similar with every kind of intimacy. It's in our interiority.
It's not, you know, I was thinking the world of the given is not reality.
The world of the given is the collapsed into physical expression aspect of
a manifold of inexpressibly ancient histories, relationships, struggles, triumphs, catastrophes,
heroism, all of these things. And those things, you don't see heroism in that.
So the realm of the given is sort of like the playing field where the impossible just keeps
pouring in from different directions, you know, seeping up through the cracks like the dandelion
and the sidewalk, right? And honestly, I want to be in touch with that, right? I get that things are
structured and solid and physical. I understand. There's still mystery there, but I, you know,
viscerally, I get it. I'm walking on rocks. I can feel them. It's this other stuff.
It's
all that is experienced and shared and transformed and beautified in living relation
with the fundamental aspects of being. We can call them names. Some of those names are dangerous, but
it's not. For me, nature's better than space travel plus time travel. Not because I prefer it,
because it's more than both. And you don't have to have a vehicle or, right, contrary to popular
belief, technology actually gets in the way of that transport system working and maybe even
tears it apart, which is something I'm very concerned about. I met a nemesis,
something that was trying to kill me. But instead of fighting it, I put it to sleep.
And so I didn't have to win, right? I didn't have to attack. And that left us both better off.
The light here today is extremely strange and beautiful. And the silence in the garden,
very different, partly due to the fog, but not merely.
May we continue to learn and grow and see and ask the brilliant questions and chase them heroically
together. Thanks for joining me. Bye-bye for now.
