Hello everybody. Welcome. I'm grateful and humbled to have a chance to evade the
car that's about to run me over and is speeding in a neighborhood and the
chance to explore and learn together again. And one thing that may not be
apparent to my listeners is that it really is a privilege for me and
something I take very seriously and look forward to. It's one of the few
joys in my current experience when I make these recordings and part of the
reason for that is that whether or not we're able to sit together in a physical
circle which would be wonderful and amazing and share together and ask
questions and explore. When I begin to make these recordings I feel the
presence of many beings with me and this is a similar experience that I have
when I write or when I create music or when I'm playing music. Sometimes when
I'm doing Tai Chi, sometimes in meditation, but almost always when I'm
making these recordings and it may seem that I'm lecturing from a catalog of
things I have learned or I know or I have discovered or I've had insight about.
And that's partly true but the important thing is the same thing that
happens when someone is dancing. When we are dancing, physically dancing, or even
if you know we are a person who cannot dance for some reason, still sometimes
our heart dances, our spirit is dancing, and we experience joy and liberation
from worry and concern, fear, pain, impoverishment. When I'm making these
videos, part of me is dancing and so it's not merely a lecture from a
catalog. Ordinarily I have some organizing idea or two or three that I may
wish to cover. Sometimes I discover and that's a really interesting word that
can be broken down into disc over why. Meaning like arms up raised to the
source of being around here, the sun. A disc is over me and I am in
communion with the disc, the circle of life, of origin, of intelligence, of
awareness, of liberation. And so when I am speaking and making recordings, it's
a special time for me and I deeply enjoy it. And as I said, there aren't too
many things I'm deeply enjoying these days. So it's a good feeling and it
feels like I'm doing something that's actually meaningful. Even though, as most
of you know, I have very few listeners. You are a very small cohort for the
moment and perhaps for a long time. So when I am having this experience and when
I am present in this way, I am learning too. And I may be reflecting on
things I've discovered or have learned, but to articulate them is a different
experience than being aware of them. And it helps to remind me of what I have
learned and discovered. And it also helps to encourage me to embody those
learnings, to enact them and not merely have the words or the description.
So you know, that's my prologue for this evening. So you know, a long time ago, I
read Masashi, the historical novel about Masashi's life. And it had a pretty big
impact on me. I was young and impetuous in my early 20s, living in Santa Rosa. I
had heard a little bit about Rinzai Zen and Kouan study. And I was flush with
excitement about the possibility of resolving Kouans. Of course, first I had
to find a Zen teacher. And I was able to find one much more quickly and conveniently
than I had imagined because there was one living two blocks away from the bookstore
where I bought this book. And an older guy there in his 40s, very deep in his way,
very wise in his way, he asked me, how did you like the book? Because he'd
ordered it for me. Back then, you know, he had to go to bookstores to order books.
There wasn't an internet yet. And I said, oh, it's amazing, you know, I think I'm
going to sell all my books and go to Japan and study Zen. He said, well, you know,
you can do that if you want. But there's a Zen teacher around the corner. I get
off work in half an hour. Why don't you come back and we'll, we can go and I'll
introduce you. So he did. And it turned out that the Zen teacher around the
corner was John Tarrant Roshi, a now fairly widely known presence in the
Western Zen circle. And so I studied with him for a while until there was a little
crisis in the tiny Sangha we had, had about eight people. Ishmael's wife was
one of them. And I had produced a newsletter for them. I was a typesetting
expert and I showed the newsletter to the people after our Zen sitting and she
got quite angry with me and said, what are you doing? I haven't even seen this
yet. This is my project, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. And I became quite upset.
And then I also was upset because the teacher didn't intervene in this tongue
lash, this public tongue lashing that Ishmael's wife delivered on me after I
had worked for, you know, 20, 30 hours on this project and thought I'd done quite
a good job. So I became rather upset about that and decided to have kind of a
chip on my shoulder about it, which was really quite silly, but typical of a
young, impetuous male. So I left the Sangha. But I continued to sit on my own and
I had a close friend who remained in the Sangha, Ben Friedman. And so we would
often sit together and then after a time I moved to San Francisco and I began
sitting with another teacher from the same lineage, Joseph Bobro, who is a very
different kind of guy than John Tarrant. But we had a small Sangha here. I ended
up making friends in the Sangha and ended up rooming with one of them for a
number of years and also impetuous kind of crazy young guy. His name is Nick. So at
one point I was kind of frustrated with my life and I knew about Ishmael
something peculiar, which was that Ishmael had done, had decided to do what
the Buddha did, which was simply to go sit at a tree until he can cut through the
mind, waking mind, until he achieves kensho, awakening, liberation. The word
enlightenment is very confusing in English. I'm going to leave that one
mostly alone. I think it's a kind of wrong idea, but I'm not particularly
educated and I'm not a Zen teacher. But I've been sitting Zen for a long time. In
any case, so one day you know I was kind of frustrated with my life and my
failure to progress in Zen, especially since I was quite sure when I began that
I was going to be an excellent at this. I was going to bust through these koans
like no problem. Boy did I have that backwards. In any case, a couple of
things. I did a couple of things and the first one was that I suggested to my
teacher, Joe, that maybe I should just go do this thing that the Buddha did and sit
at a tree until I awaken. He said, no, no, no, no. Don't do that. And I didn't really
understand why. Why that would not be a good thing to do. Ishmael did it, seemed
to work for him. The Buddha did it, good enough for him, but not good for me. Why
not? Now of course, a Zen teacher doesn't really teach anything, though they
give mandos or talks sometimes. So I didn't really understand why he said no,
but he was very clear about it. He said, no, no, you're quite confused right now.
Do not do this thing. And really what I was talking about was giving up all my
possessions and my job and so on and just going and sitting at the tree. He said,
don't do this. But the actual point of all of that introduction was one day I
became very concerned with the idea of what is the most important question. And I
presented this to my Zen teacher at one point because I figured there must be such
a thing. There must be such a thing as the most important question. And I don't
really recall what he said when I asked him, you know, what is the most important
question. But I found, again, I was quite staggered at his response in typical
Zen fashion, whether or not he said these particular words. He said something like,
well, it isn't that one. And I was staggered because in a way, you know, if you think
there's a hierarchy of the importance of questions, what is the most important
question must be at the top of the hierarchy. He did not seem to think so.
And so I was thinking about this a bit this evening and I was curious about it.
And particularly his response. Well, it isn't that one. I wasn't thinking it was
that one. But I did think that there was one. There must be one. And surely my
Zen teacher knows what this one is and will tell me if I ask him. And then I
will know what the most important question to chase is. Now, of course, I'm much
older now. I'm probably older than either of those teachers were when I met them.
And one of my friends joined John Terence Sanga and worked through the Coen
study very quickly and became a Roshi in his own right. And I've sat with him a
few times, Daniel Teregno. He knew my mother and my son's mother. He used to
attend bar at a dance club I used to go to a lot called the Daily Planet in
Santa Rosa. And so anyway, what about this question? What is the most important
question? Well, here's the problem. Well, here's a problem. And there's a big deal
about the difference between these words ah and the. If we only understood that
almost it's incredibly rare that there is a the answer. This can be confusing
because if we're working equations in arithmetic, for example, or other parts
of mathematics, there is a the involved. There's a the correct resolution of an
equation. But an equation is a complex representational thing. And sometimes,
even in math, there are multiple answers. Why do we think there's a the answer to
things? Because the means just one correct, just one correct answer. So when I was
asking Joe, what's the most important question? I was doubling down on this one.
There's just one idea. I was saying the most important question. I didn't ask him
what is a important question or an important question. I wanted to know
what is the important question. And I think Joe was very aware that I was
intellectual. And partly because I'm intellectual, I have certain gifts and
certain geuses. A geus is kind of the opposite of a gift. And Joe knew that I
was very thinky. And he could see that I'm bringing my thinkiness to my Zen
practice. And also he probably saw the same thing when I said, why don't I just
go sit at a tree? He saw Darren is having thoughts. He is thinking things. This
will not help him. Not in this endeavor. In some parts of life, this will be
helpful for Darren. But in the endeavor of awakening, a lot of thinking and
abstraction, not only is not going to be helpful, it will be an impediment, a
powerful impediment. So I think he saw this, but he also saw that I was being
very abstract. Meaning representation of things without a connection to
context, abstract. And so he saw somehow that I was confused and I was coming to
him to try to validate my confused ideas so that I could then go along chasing
them. And he said, no, don't do this. This will not turn out well. And I think
he's right. Now, I never gave up on sitting Zazen. And I never gave up on
chasing questions. But here's the thing about the most important question. The
most important question is a religion, right? It's a religion we have or can
have where we think there's one question that is more important than all
others. Well, here's the problem. What's the context? In relation to what? From
what perspective or with what purpose or purposes does the question gain
importance? And if we think that there's just one most important question, we
become very confused. There may even be for us in our lives an urgency, a
mysterious urgency in our soul. But it's not simply one question. It's more
like a constellation of urgencies that may produce the child of a question. But
that child is not the constellation even though it's their progeny. They
produce it, catalyze it. So, you know, right now I'm out for a walk. What's the
most important question right now? Or what is a important question or an
important question right now? Well, for me it is the question of why is there not a
most important question. Let that ring for a moment. There's lots of different
ways of answering. There's not a most important answer to this. Why is there
not a most important question? Same problem. It's abstract. In what context? For
who? Doing what? Where in their life? When in their life? When in their adventure of
the expression and formation of karma? Where are they? Because in contexts, in
relationships, in situations in which we find ourselves in the waking world, the
questions that are useful or good are informed by the situations that we
compose for ourselves and find ourselves in. And they're going to be unique from
person to person. Now, the big questions, right, what is the nature of reality or
the universe? Again, it's a problem because what we really want, what would be
very useful for humans, is for someone to lead us away from this one answer
problem we keep having. One question, one answer. We were trained to think this way,
but what we want are seven different answers, each more beautiful than the
last, each one informing and transforming the others. What we want are a circle of
answers, like the spokes on a wheel and the hub of the wheel and the rim of the
wheel, so that we get insight at least across the plane, because that can be
expanded to a sphere. And we can introduce time and now get very complex,
beautiful insight and understanding and awareness without having an answer.
Thankfully, we don't have, it's like asking, what's the most important finger?
Well, you know, what's the most important appendage? Well, there are those who
might answer these questions, but they'd be confused because the importance of
fingers depends on all kinds of things, hands and what we intend to do with them
and so on and so forth. And our minds are much like this. And there's an aspect of
our mind, faculties involved in our representational cognition, that are not
trustworthy and want a single derivative that's graspable, so that they can claim
to know and have this solved and be done with it and so on. But the truly deep
questions about the nature of origin and being and time and lives and death and
birth and living beings and living places and intelligence and language and
all of these things, what would be useful is five or six significant answers
that each help us to understand new features of the very mysterious, deeply
complex, eternally mysterious nature of all of these things. Because most of
these important things or reference that I'm using words to point toward. Not
only are they deep and infinitely deep and mysterious, meaning you can always
get a new array of even better answers. You can always do this without end.
Unless you think there's one, in which case what happens is you find one you
like, you get married to it and the question dies. Now you no longer have
the question, you believe that you know the answer, the answer. The most
unfortunate. In simple matters, this is useful. In matters of great import or
depth, this is a catastrophe. This is an apocalypse of intelligence. Now surely my
Zen teacher had some awareness of the things that I'm speaking of here. But he
was trying to warn me against reducing my body, you know, if the analogy of my
mind is my body, he didn't want me to reduce that body to one digit on the
end of my pinky. I think like, ah, this is the important question. And of course we
could offer various positions on this. Like we could say, well, I'm not sure
what the most important question is, but the aspect of your being that is
urgently curious and formulates questions to know its nature, to
experientially know in a deep and abiding and constantly expanding way to
know its nature, this would be a profound thing to have awareness of. So almost
folding the question back on itself. Who is asking? You want to know what the
most important question is, but do you know who is asking? And if I say, well
Darren is asking and my Zen teacher says, well, show me this Darren. Where is it? I
could point at my body and he would say, no. I mean, he would say, yes, that's your
body, but where is Darren? Is Darren just your body? And on and on. Until I could
show something of insight that would overcome all abstraction. Do away with
it completely. And so then you could form the question, ah, well, how do I do
away with all abstraction? How do I do away with this, this mind that keeps asking
questions and wants descriptions and representations and models and equations
and such. And there are answers to that question, but fundamentally, it's a
problematical question because it's like abstraction wanting to overcome itself
with abstractions. It won't work. The thing we form the problem with, we need to
find its root and deal with that root directly and thus not put an end to the
tree of questions that we may have, but the experience of deep awakening or
can show moksha. This experience often resolves the myriad questions that the
representational consciousness is inclined to form. And it does not resolve
them by answering them so much as by presenting an experience so profound,
timeless, and infinite that these questions are understood to be relatively
trivial. We may still pursue some of them, but compared to that which puts an end
to the dominance of representational cognition in our thought and awareness,
these questions are quite trivial. And yet we may keep forming them. So I think the most
useful experience I've had is a situation where I could continue to ask a single
question and I would be shown something more astonishing than anything I'd ever
imagined. Each time it was answered and there would be wild new features of the
second answer that transformed the first answer in fascinating and beautiful and
trustworthy ways and so on. And so I could just keep asking one question. And if it
were a deep question, then my teacher in this case who wasn't a human being would
reply with new perspectives and depth and astonishing new vistas of understanding
and awareness as if, as if again like spokes on a wheel where the wheel becomes
a sphere and the sphere becomes a hypersphere and so on. Each time one approaches a
beautiful question such as where does human intelligence come from? Why does it
exist? What is its history? But I still like my Zen teacher's response even if I
can't remember it directly. The response of what is the most important question? Well,
it isn't that one. This really cuts the head off the monster and this is a
monster that wants to grow many heads. So I'm grateful for my old teachers and their
their insight. And I'm still a very thinky person in my way. And I still have
questions and I'm still curious about the most important question. Even though I
understand that a better formulation, you know, if we really want to ask a good
question we should pause and carefully formulate for quite some time before we
allow the question to escape our lips. Because if we will pause and slow down
and take deep matters into consideration before we pose the question, then we are
better positioned to learn and make discoveries and experience insight. I'm a
fan of Quora. I like Quora a lot. Although it's become a bit as all such products and
institutions and algorithms do, it's become affected by its own complexities and design
and such at this late date. But it's a great place to go to ask questions and have
people who know something about the topic answer them. And that's a very
powerfully useful thing. All kinds of useful things about that. But I used to
see very naive questions, quite commonly. And at first I was a bit reactive.
You know, I would see a question like, I keep dreaming about my girlfriend's
boyfriend. What does this mean? It's not the kind of question we can't respond to.
We can make some stuff up. But what we really need to know is more of the
content of the dream and also a lot more about the person asking the question.
Or I would see questions like, what does this word mean? Some word. And of course
there are dictionary answers. But the word has different meanings depending on
who's using it and where and how and why and what the context is. So the word
doesn't mean one thing. And a lot of the questions are posed as if there's just a
single answer. Someone knows it. Won't you tell me? When in fact the mystery of
life and thought and all these things is not like this. It's not like this. So I
used to be a little frustrated sometimes. And sometimes I would respond and
explain. And some people would say, what does it mean if I dream of a snake?
Well, we need to know a lot more about you. What's been going on in your life
lately? What happened yesterday? Tell me about your interactions with a snake.
All kinds of things. It doesn't mean something to dream of a snake. It's too
abstract. It's like asking what's the most important question. It's way too
abstract to encompass the actual novelty and uniqueness in an actual
situation in human experience.
Why is there not a most important question? Well, there could be. We could
take one up. We could have a most important question for ourselves. One
of my friends and many of the people that I've known who are gentle souls in
this life, they have a fundamental question that I think is good. It's not
that it's easily formed in language, but we can form it in language clumsily. Why
is there injustice? Why is there something that resembles evil or
malignancy on earth? Why is there cancer? I guess the cancer idea just came from
the word malignant. It's an association I have with that word. I don't think
cancer is evil or even really malignant except in the clinical sense. Cancer is
one of the ways that the earth controls human populations. That's not the
answer. It's an infinite question. It's infinitely deep. There's no end to the
question of why is there cancer or how could we understand cancer more
deptly and insightfully? That's an infinitely long ladder. There's no end to
that ladder. In fact, if we could understand any single aspect of life, we
would understand probably not everything, but it would radically improve our
understandings of all other things because all of the things are linked
together in a transcendental unity so that if we could just understand any
one thing with great depth, all of our other understandings would
transform in the light of this awareness. I used to have this kind of
fascinating daydream where I thought if I could just deeply understand a penny,
one penny, all of the secrets of the universe would be revealed to me because
part of me, some aspect of my being knew that if you could deeply understand one
thing, it could even be a very trivial thing like a penny, that understanding
would affect all other aspects of identity, of transformation, of origin, of
endings. And so, I reflect on these matters together with you tonight.
Let us maintain the awareness of the limitations of representational thought.
Very useful and a very narrow scope of our human experience, the experience of
our souls, our life paths, our karma, very narrow representational thought.
And all of the questions remain infinite. So again, what we want are five
astonishing answers, each different that each reflect unique facets of the
question. So that each of the facets is transformed by the others. This is
what real intelligence looks like to me. Now, of course, that's an abstract
description and it's very general. But it's much better than the one answer
idea. It's a definite improvement on there is an answer to this question. And
you can see how many religions have gotten here. There is an answer. The
answer is the Word of God. The Word of God is the Bible. We're done. That's all
we need to know. That's all we need to consider. It's pretty weird since
language is interpreted and context in the interpreter matters. So I think
those people are quite confused. Whenever people become extremely doctrinally rigid,
it's a sign their mind is dying. It's dying in the grip of a narrative. And it's
very easy to lose the faculties that we bring to our birth in this way and to
inhibit or impede them or amputate them. And this is one of the truly frightening
problems we face in ever newer modes and ways as the children of the era in which
we now exist. If you have a good question, I'd love to hear it. Thank you for
listening to me. Bye bye for now.
