Hi, thank you for joining me. Today is Wednesday, February 12, 2014. It is 626 AM. My name is
Darren Stevenson. You're probably watching my YouTube channel. I can be found under that
name in San Francisco on Facebook. I also have a blog at wandercloud.wordpress.com and I run
a website called organelle.org. Today I'm going to be talking about some of the basic or most
serious problems facing civilization in mankind today. I'm also going to be talking about the
difference between what we pay attention to and what we might pay attention to if our
species were actually intelligent, which I'm going to claim it is not. There's a big difference
between the idea of intelligence and we seem to think that simply because we can represent things
in language and because we're capable of advanced representational technologies like
mathematics and because we are able to produce physical technologies that appear to us to be
very advanced that we are intelligent. Unfortunately, that's not true. What intelligence means really
is, by the way, I'm going to be competing a little bit with machines at the moment like most of us
are most of the time. When intelligence really means it depends a lot on why you're asking,
who's asking, where you're asking this question, and kind of what the context is. One of the
things that's peculiar about what we call human intelligence is that it often completely ignores
relational aspects, purposive aspects, and contextual aspects. Basically, it'll produce some kind of a
result, which it'll then dance around madly about as if it were a God thinking that it's
intelligent because the result looks sophisticated. That's not intelligence. Intelligence basically
has to do with living beings and relationships, preserving those relationships, understanding
them, interacting with them in ways that produce shocking benefits evolutionarily and in terms
of sustainability and in terms of like purpose and relation. It's the same thing in a human family
You can have the most intelligent person in the world. If they can't get along with you,
or if they burn your house down, it doesn't matter how intelligent they seem to be on testing.
What truly matters in intelligence is relation, awareness of context, and the meanings that we
derive from relationships and our awareness of context. Now, in these fields of measurement,
our species gets an F minus. We fail in every single domain. And I like to talk a little bit
about why that is. In a few of my recent videos, I've discussed the differences between the left
hemisphere model, sort of way of being in the world, and the right hemisphere way of being in
the world. And they're very, very different. By the way, my camera may be spinning things around.
This is my right side. My left hemisphere is right here, controls right side of my body. My right
hemisphere is here, largely controls the left side of my body. One of the interesting things
about these two hemispheres really briefly, just to recap, is that the right hemisphere believes
in both sides of the body, but it doesn't have much of a voice. Can't really talk much. It doesn't
seem to be actively involved in generating conscious content. For most people, there are
exceptions. The left hemisphere, on the other hand, is fully conscious, very language oriented,
very oriented towards descriptions, functions, models, things like this. It talks all the
time. In fact, it's very active while I'm talking right now. And it doesn't believe in the other
half of the body and sees it as a spooky kind of force or enemy that it would like to get rid of,
destroy, or just pretend doesn't exist. You can see how this works in science, where you have
people like Daniel Dennett, who would like you to believe that experience doesn't actually exist.
It's just a kind of an epiphenomenon or a side effect of the machinery of your brain, as if your
brain were a machine. It's just one of the most ridiculous ideas ever imagined by mankind. Now,
this is an example of how you can have something that looks incredibly sophisticated and appears to
have really sophisticated arguments. There's actually dumber than plastic shoes. The left
hemisphere has no way to check its own arguments. And it basically just sort of makes up a theory
and goes madly running forward without theory, completely uninterruptible when divorced from
the right hemisphere, and is incredibly dangerous because it actually, it doesn't care about living
things at all. It really, it doesn't even believe in them. What it does instead is it substitutes
words and tokens and models for them, and then makes arguments about those. And it sort of fights
those arguments against each other in courtroom like environments to decide which of them is the
most intelligent. Well, unfortunately, none of those are intelligent because they're not connected
to life on earth. They're not connected to actual relation. They're not connected to living beings.
Now, luckily for most of us, the left hemisphere and the right hemisphere are fairly well integrated.
And so what we get is the left hemisphere becomes very active while we're conscious while we're
using it in this way. And the right hemisphere interrupts and informs it when it goes crazy.
So that, for example, you're having fun riding your bike. You want to just keep going forward,
but you notice that there's a wall in front of you. So your right hemisphere basically warns you
like, wait, there's a problem. There's a wall in front of you. Essentially, the right hemisphere,
which is shockingly more intelligent than the left, I mean, the left has some very, very profound
features of structural intelligence. But the right hemisphere has features of intelligence
that are a billion fold more sophisticated. They're vastly older. They go back to the time
before there were brains, rather than being like a single kind of intelligence or a single model
or argument, the right hemisphere has probably billions of models that work together. So the
interesting thing about the right hemisphere is that it sort of detects anomalies. It can tell
when something's wrong. And so if you're like listening to an argument, and you suddenly notice
like, wait a minute, that doesn't fit. That's your right hemisphere kind of, or the right hemisphere
way of being in the world, interrupting the argument. Now, so for most of us, we have a bit of a,
you know, these are tempestures compete. And in our childhood, the left hemisphere sort of dominates
and crushes most of the right hemisphere's intelligence forms, which, by the way, were used
to acquire language. So before you even had language, you had this astonishing set of
intelligences that were capable of acquiring any kind of language and fitting you into any kind
of culture that you can possibly imagine. Those were right hemisphere assets. Once you get the
left hemisphere, dominating and crushing that and taking all of its momentum and using it to
produce models and arguments and da, da, da, da, da, da, you're sort of out of luck developmentally,
you're going to kind of stop developing there. And you'll keep developing your left hemisphere
assets, but your right hemisphere assets are going to be at least inhibited. They'll continue to
develop throughout your life. And in fact, when you fall asleep, this reverses, right? Your dreaming
is actually the functioning and the, how should we put it, the developmental processing of the
right hemisphere assets and them feeding back into the left. So it kind of, you know, we're awake,
right? And suddenly the left hemisphere is really very dominant for most of us when we're conscious.
And there are, you know, there are people who are living in the world in a more or less right
hemisphere way. And then we're asleep and the right hemisphere is kind of dominant.
Now, if the left hemisphere had its way, it just wouldn't let you go to sleep. It would just like
say, you know, when you go to sleep, a spooky ghost takes over the car and we'd like to throw that out
and just get rid of it. And one of the things that's interesting about this is we have a variety of
sort of phenomenon and mental illnesses and such that have a lot to do with left hemisphere over
dominance. One of them is schizophrenia. One of the, one of the other interesting phenomenon that
is a more or less social phenomenon is something we call alien abduction, right? And this is a
thing that often happens in people's bedrooms at night. There's also some other phenomenon
associated with this. During sleep paralysis, people often perceive like a strange evil presence
nearby, sort of hovering near the bed. Yeah, there are paintings of this and such. A lot of this,
now I'm not saying exactly that I know what this, what this is, but the idea of alien abduction is
very interesting because it really looks a lot like what would happen if the left hemisphere
sort of was able to invade the right hemisphere's dominance and then start sort of testing it to
try to find out like, how did the, how did we get ejected from the vehicle of the body overnight?
And, and of course, again, the funny thing is the left hemisphere doesn't believe in the,
in the half of the body that has the right hemisphere, so it doesn't want it to exist
when it's divorced from that. Now, of course, in some people you have extreme left hemisphere
dominance and you get really powerful modes of like pattern recognition, mathematics, language
use, but you get like no empathy, right? And we have names for various syndromes like Asperger's
and things like this, where you get basically savant like abilities with language, math and
pattern recognition, but almost no abilities with empathy and relation. This is very important in
the discussion we're about to have because almost all of the problems that we're dealing with on
earth come from a very small number of situations that we could actually address pretty rapidly
if we understood their sources. Now, a lot of the times we're sitting around arguing about
whose fault something is and we think it's like these people's fault or those people's fault.
It's the fault of religion. It's, it's the fault of the terrorists. It's the fault of
some corporation, right? It's the fault of a government. It's the fault of criminals. Yeah,
and almost all of these arguments are just dead wrong because they're not paying attention to a
basic fact. Our species is not yet intelligent. We are not an intelligent species. There's no
way you can have a species that just wipes out everything, spends most of its evolutionary
momentum on building machines and destroying each other, poisoning the environment, wiping out
anciently conserved ecosystems, and running around calling itself a heroic god of progress.
There's just, that's not, that's not even slightly intelligent. In fact, we're the least intelligent
animal on the planet, but we're certain effectively that we're gods of intelligence. And every time
we build a new machine, we jump up and down and have a big celebration about how much more intelligent
we become. This is completely insane, but one of the things that's really interesting about the form
of insanity that we're talking about is it's absolutely the left hemisphere, right? And it's,
it's totally divided from the capacity to be corrected by the anomaly detection of the right
hemisphere. And this is crucially important. Let me explain how this works. So essentially,
we build collectives, yeah? And what tends to happen is that the left hemispheric aspects
of human thought rise to the fore in our collectives and organize them according to rules in books,
right? Descriptions we write down, models of things, arguments, okay? And so we, in legal
fictions, right? Actually fictional legal ideas. So we, we, we sort of build our collectives based
on these very left hemispheric ideas. And then we kind of just let them run crazy in the world.
And often we sort of know that there's going to be a problem ahead of time. If you listen to, for
example, the founders of the United States, you can see that they're aware of various kinds of
problems that they've seen vastly dominating them in their previous experience of being nations and
making collectives. And they're trying desperately to avoid them by building a system. Again, a system
is very left hemisphere that will protect certain aspects that allow a kind of a right hemispheric
interruption. Ordinarily, those just fail. So let me talk a little bit more about
what the current problems are and what their sources are.
The first problem is our collectives are essentially left hemispheric dominated
projections, right? They're projections of left hemisphere like
ways of being in the world and ways of thinking. And the thing that's really terrifying about this
is that the focus of the left hemisphere is so narrow, incredibly narrow, and so
often completely unaware of context, history, purposive intelligence, relational intelligence,
actual intellectual intelligence, philosophical intelligence, all the various forms that we
have. And there's thousands of forms we have no names for because normally we're just sort of
thinking of intelligence like IQ. How well can you do on a test, which has nothing to do with
intelligence, okay? It's a very narrow idea of intelligence. And so most of the left hemisphere's
ideas about what it means to be intelligent or successful are insanely narrow. And they're
throwing away more than 99% of reality. And they're focusing on just one little tiny, tiny piece,
which they can pretend produces wild success if you do it a certain way. This is basically the
model of profit, okay? So profit means you go somewhere and you cause unthinkable damage to
billions of forms of life and the future and human history. And then you go somewhere else
where that damage is kind of isn't seen. And you produce like some trinket, okay? That you then
sell and it only costs you, you know, 10 cents to produce because you're able to just wipe out
nature wholesale to do that. And nobody got to see that it's all hidden somewhere. And then you
come back with this little trinket and you sell it for, you know, $10 and you make a thousand percent
of profit. And this is a wild success. Or for example, you build automobiles, yeah? And you just
keep building automobiles. And until every single human has like one or two or three or seven of
them. And these are the single most ridiculously expensive machines in terms of purposive
intelligence gets burned down, relational intelligence gets burned down, wipes out the
ecologies. We fight wars to produce resources for machines. Machines get more care than humans.
They have more rights than humans. They own terrain all over the place that we will never
have any kind of access to. And we're essentially competing against a giant mechanical virus that
actually surrounds and is just flowing through our cities. And we think that this is some kind of
advancement or success when actually it's suicidal, it's wiping us out. We don't even notice
that we're competing with machines. I mean, our car, we have to pay insurance for our cars, right?
And so we also have to pay insurance to get health care after we pay taxes to fight wars. So we'll
spend like trillions of dollars to go kill people and radiate other countries in the Middle East,
right? And we get no education, no health care. Then we have to pay insurance to protect,
apparently to protect people from legal fictions in case problems happen while driving cars.
And then on top of that, we have to pay more insurance for the opportunity to possibly get
something like very poor health care. And we're working all the time, all our lives,
to basically support these nightmarish ideas that are wiping everything out and destroying us.
And every time we have to pay, we have to pay a new, we have to pay again to pay again, essentially.
And this is sort of how it is in the United States. It's not the same in every single culture
or country. But in most of the Western countries, what you've got are massively oriented, left
hemispherically driven collectives, right? And unlike human beings, there's no correction, right?
There's no connection with life. There's no connection with ecology, the history of life on
Earth, the future of life on Earth, the meaning of what it means to be alive, a real model of
evolution. What we've got is a very left hemisphere model. Not that science is wrong, okay? They're
right about the tiny, tiny piece of evolution that they understand in a way. But their interpretations
are wildly ridiculous, right? The idea that it's competition, it's insane. It's true in a very
narrow sense in the extremely narrow context that, again, they've established for us to examine it
in. Yes, basically, it's true there. But even in there, it's kind of a poor argument and a very
poor interpretation of the idea. And that, again, drives our cultures because now we think, oh,
evolution is actually about competition. So the goal is to win, right? For some individual, which
of course, there's really only one planet here. There's sort of one giant animal, one giant
intelligence distributed into billions of diverse forms that interact together in ways that produce
forms of benefit we didn't have language for, okay? Because all we were really thinking about
is how do you get more advanced forms? Or how do you get, like, where did we come from, for example?
And I mean, one of the questions we failed to ask completely is, the living planet doesn't have
a purpose, okay? Nature doesn't have a purpose. Nature is purposive, right? Or trans-purposive.
What I mean by that is, nature is sort of like an explosively diverse, unthinkably rare and profound
garden that just generates billions of possible purposive directions for life to experiment and
grow and develop in, yeah? And we burn all that down and turn it into function in machines. And
there are people, of course, who actually think that functions all there is, right? That you're
just a function, your brain is just a machine. Really, there are actually people who want us to
believe that the universe itself is a simulation in a computer. Unfortunately, the left hemisphere
does this all the time, right? It creates a functional metaphor, a model, and it just says,
like, everything is that. It is that thing. It's just a machine, which is, you know,
it's not that the idea that we can view organisms from a perspective that's mechanical is ridiculous.
Of course, we can do that. But the idea that organisms are machines, that's completely insane.
That is nothing to do with it. That's like saying you're a cartoon. So the main problem that we have
is that all of our collectives, and I basically mean every single one, religion, science, government,
corporations, all of our legal systems, they're completely left hemispheric. They're dominated
by absolute fictions that are just made up models that everyone's worshiping as if they're gods,
and they're uncorrectable. The methods of correcting them are so incredibly crude and slow
that by the time you even get the information you need to correct this rampaging monster,
everything's long ago was burned down, dead, tortured, imprisoned, crushed, turned into little
chotskies, or, you know, burned up for machine use. And this is actually the number one problem
our species is facing. And no one's paying attention to it, right? We're worried about things like
climate change, okay? So let me explain or delineate what I think are like the top 10
actual problems we're facing. The first number one problem is that we've got absolutely the wrong
idea of what it means to be human, to be a civilization, to build collectives at all.
We're completely confused about this, and all of our collectives are built on left hemispheric
models. So the number one problem is our species is not yet intelligent. We don't know this,
we think we're intelligent, we're madly forging ahead in 10,000 different domains in which we're
abjectly, omnisidally, we attack everything that moves, and most of what doesn't, we're omnisidal,
we're omnisidally stupid, and we're just raging ahead and sure of our own intelligence,
meanwhile, completely ignoring the fact that we're unconnected to anything like intelligence,
or life, or life on earth, or the history of life on earth, or human potential, or any of
these things. So the number one problem that faces our people is that we are not yet intelligent,
and we're not aware of this, okay? And all of our collectives are completely unguided,
and they're uncorrectable. So they're just like madly burning stuff down, and we're every once
in a while like complaining a little bit, or you know, we file a lawsuit or something, it has no
effect, right? You can't prosecute or stop a collective that's unguided, right? The people
don't have the power really to do it. And whenever they, and it takes like, you know, every hundred
years or so, there's some major moment where there's finally like some kind of a correction.
But by that time, you know, a long time ago, that was sustainable, because we weren't powerful enough
to just wipe out life on earth. Unfortunately, that's no longer true. One year, okay, one year of
earth going around the sun is seven billion human life years, all right? So we have no more time,
we ran out of time a long time ago, we didn't notice that we weren't intelligent, we didn't
notice that our collectives are insane, and we didn't notice that we've neglected to really
establish any way for there to be like, a correction that involves living beings, intimacy,
purposive intelligence, contextual intelligence, relational intelligence. And so we get a situation
where, for example, we'll burn down an acre of the anciently conserved rainforest for ten dollars,
okay? Now, what's the actual value of that anciently conserved acre of rainforest? Well,
it's unthinkable. The value of that acre of anciently conserved rainforest is, you know,
conservatively, it's worth a billion times more than every object we've ever produced,
including all of our knowledge methods, mathematics, science, religion, everything, okay? Because those
are representations, and compared to life, they don't have any value at all. And our species has
not yet recognized this somehow, right? Like, we recognize it as individuals in various ways,
and some of us are passionately recognizing this, yeah? And realizing this is completely insane,
we're wiping out the planet, meanwhile, we think we're the most intelligent thing that ever happened.
We're the least intelligent thing that ever happened. Any insect is more intelligent than our
entire species. For a simple reason, it's not on the sidle. It doesn't kill everything that moves,
it doesn't attack most of what doesn't move, right, the environment, it doesn't attack its own
intelligence, which we're doing madly every day, and it doesn't just keep doing that uninterruptively.
Even a machine would have a hard time succeeding at that. The only reason we've been able to survive
it is that Earth's been absorbing that damage, right? Billions of years of evolution on Earth
have been just taking these shocking blows of what the humans are doing over and over again,
just keeps going faster and faster and faster until it's like a sewing machine,
just wiping out life on Earth. That's the first most important problem. No one's paying attention
to it. So we're not intelligent yet is number one. We've got the wrong model of civilization.
Number two is all of our collectives are unguided fictions. They're models made of rule-based
laws and ideas and books and things, and largely they're uncorrectable. Try and correct, okay,
Christianity. I wish you luck. And we think science is sort of our great hero. Here's the thing,
they're doing most of what's wiping out life on Earth and they don't care. They're not noticing.
If they even mention it, it's sort of an afterthought. Not only that, most of science is
willing to just torture billions of living beings all day long for data, and I think that's a great
idea. They actually think like, this is how you get data. You kill and torture living beings in
little boxes and things, which is insane. Those living beings are our own bodies. They're not
like a luxury that exists separate from me or you. This is one planet. Whatever you do to nature is
done in you. If you're torturing some animal, you're being tortured because it's a living web.
It's not connected anymore than my hand is connected to my body. It's one unity,
first and foremost, you have to understand that. Secondarily, there's all these distinctions
that give us the chance to have evolutionary momentum and developmental potential that are
shockingly profound and let's you burn them down. Number one, unintelligent. Number two,
our fictional collectives are unguided. Number three, we're omnicidal. We kill everything in
sight. We attack our own intelligence, which makes us kill everything in sight faster and faster
and faster. Number three is pollution. We have poisoned every single domain of life on Earth.
Every mammalian body is currently containing all kinds of incredible toxins that destroy our
hormonal intelligence in our bodies, damage our DNA, and basically ruin the possibility of health,
not just for us, but every creature on Earth. If you just test their metabolism, you'll find that
they're all filled with industrial toxins, some of them with radiation. There's various kinds of
DNA damage going on. There's all kinds of metabolic damage and we're immersed in billions of forms
of noise that are wiping out all of the aspects of evolutionary development and intelligence
that took billions of years of life on Earth to develop. We're wiping that out. We're not even
aware of them. We're aware of two of them, but we've got transmission noise in all kinds of radio
frequencies we pay no attention to. We've got chemical noise in thousands of domains. We've
got pollution in every single aspect of the ecosystems on Earth and it's killing everything.
It's damaging the way that our own evolution learns what it's supposed to do in the coming
generations, what it's supposed to be and become, not supposed to and that there is a supposed to,
but meaning the genetic system essentially reads context and environment and it relates with that
in a very intelligent way that produces new opportunities from existing contexts.
So if you bury that in noise, what you get are monsters that are damaged and are born
diseased in various ways and are not connected to the environment, but they're connected to
things like expecting there to be lots of machines. We know for a fact that there are
factors that program, they structure our genetic development based on our relationships
in the world in this moment and the way that we're dealing with that is actually wiping out
evolution. It's wiping out our evolution and the evolution of all the anciently conserved
evolutionary partners that belong with us that are actually assets of our own intelligence we
haven't discovered yet. So we're just burning them down. It would be like if a child, if well
his mother was asleep, he anesthetized her and ripped out chunks of her body and then sold them
to drug dealers and people like prostitute or pimps and people who would sell him automobiles
and jewelry and things like this and then when she woke up he would just lie to her madly about
where her arm went last night and then he would drug her some more and just keep doing it. In fact,
these two people are one being. They need each other. This child who's doing this to his mother
is out of his mind. This is basically what's going on with human beings. So after that comes the
problem of object proliferation. We're really concerned about human population. I admit that's
a problem and it belongs somewhere on this list. Let's put it with number six. Let's say that the
two problems here that we only look at one of are human population growth which is a fairly
serious problem but it's way more serious when all of the environments are poisoned, all the water
is being used or poisoned in ridiculous ways, the air is poisoned, the relational environment is
poisoned, the intellectual environment is poisoned, the purposive environment is poisoned, all of the
aspects of our intelligence are poisoned and then we build every kind of object we can possibly
imagine and celebrate this wildly as though this is the onset of our coming divinity. Again,
totally mindless left hemisphere nightmare unguided completely by life and relation.
The seventh item on my list would be war and especially the possibility of nuclear war. We
spend unthinkable amounts of resources and time on blowing things up and poisoning each other,
killing things for no really good reason. I'm going to just step back for one second because
that object proliferation problem, it actually leads to war and it's unthinkable that we dump
our evolutionary momentum which we could be using to become more and more intelligent,
more and more connected with nature to actually be the sort of evolutionary hero of our world
which the purposive intelligence of the planet generates beings like us for a reason.
Remember, I talked about how Earth is one being, how there's an intelligent system here and it
doesn't have a purpose but it's purposive. Well, we are the purposive hero of the entire ecological
system and we've gone insane and we're burning it down. So one of the reasons we're burning it down
is that we're madly in love with objects and machines and we actually fight wars and build
nuclear weapons over ideas, ideologies that are the produce of our completely unintelligent back
up the first thing, wrong-minded fictional collectives back down to the second thing.
See how all these things are related and they lead to each other and it's kind of a cascade.
So we've got this terrifying object proliferation. No one's paying any attention to that. They're
worried about how many people there are. It's worth worrying about how many people there are.
But have you ever heard anyone say that there are way too many automobiles or way too many computers
or way billions of too many little chotchkes and junk that no one needs, that the only reason
we are able to survive making these is that the planet can still absorb the environmental shock
that's produced every time we do that? So the seventh item on my list is war and nuclear,
the possibility of nuclear war. Oh, by the way, it's not a possibility. We've had a nuclear war,
okay? Since 1940, 2100 nuclear explosions. I would classify that as a nuclear war, wouldn't you?
Well, no one did. It's not funny. No one mentioned that we had a full-scale nuclear war on earth.
No one even noticed. We just overlooked that fact. Left hemisphere dominance, uninterruptible by
evidence, doesn't even care, right? It's not even looking for evidence. It's so narrowly focused
that it misses everything that's important and just kind of goes on with its little, you know,
mad scientist kind of plan. The eighth item on my list of 10 would probably be disease for human
beings, right? For human beings, which are actually the most terrible problem on the planet as far
as everything else is concerned, we are the disease as far as the living systems and the ecosystems
are concerned. We're just wiping them out and we're unstoppable and we just proliferate madly
and we've infected every single aspect of nature that we can possibly get, you know, anywhere near.
But for us, the eighth item is infectious diseases. We're sort of breeding them, in a sense,
and we are not only breeding them, we're advancing them very quickly by acting in incredibly stupid
ways in how we react and deal with them. The ninth problem for us is what's left after all of this.
You know, we're running out of water. We're damaging the most precious resources on earth.
We're destroying the water, the atmosphere, and land. And then I would say maybe 10th on this list.
And again, these are problems for us, right? Not just for, mostly just for humans, right? Not for
life on earth. For life on earth, we are the number one problem. There's no doubt about that at all.
We're much, much more deadly than an incoming projectile from space, which we're incredibly
frightened of. And by the way, earth may have produced us in part so that there would be an
animal capable of interfering with giant projectiles from space that can wipe out everything on earth
and wipe out the whole history of life on earth. We've become that projectile because we're so ignorant
and we're so left hemisphere driven and we're uninterruptible by actual intelligence.
So for us, the 10th problem, which we're all, everyone's really terrified about this climate
change thing. It's mostly an economic problem, okay? It's gonna cause a lot of trouble for human
beings around the world, but it's nothing compared to the fact that we're not yet
intelligent and we don't care. So we're confused about all of these things. And if you look at my
10 problem list, which basically goes, unintelligent collectives, the wrong model of civilization,
unguided physical, excuse me, unguided fictionals, unguided fictional collectives, like our
governments and corporations and things like that, that were on the sidle, we attack everything as
number three. Four would be pollution and we polluted everything. Five would be object proliferation
and also population growth. Six would be war and nuclear power. Seven would be disease.
Eight would be that we destroy the water and the land and the forests. I guess actually nine
would be climate change. I have my list misnumbered here. And what might be 10?
10 would be that when we do manage to notice that there's a problem, we get the wrong idea
about what it actually is. And so I'll give you some examples of that. One of the things you'll see
humans doing in our very unintelligent cultures is they'll recognize there's some kind of a problem,
but they'll get it wrong and they'll actually invent bizarre conspiracy explanations.
Millions of them, like from chemtrails and their hiding alien technology and the government has
this sort or that sort of conspiracy. And there's like millions of people who have these sort of
bizarre or you know the 2012 Mayans are coming, the Pleidians from outer space or whatever,
the alien abduction phenomenon, all these kinds of myriad conspiracy theories and there are thousands
of them. I'm just naming like a few off the top of my head. These are actually the result of the
right hemisphere getting the idea that there's something wrong, right? Because it can sense
it's an anomaly detector. It's brilliant. It's sensing when something's out of whack. The problem
is it has a very difficult time reaching consciousness and correcting it in and it has an even more
difficult time in collectives where it doesn't really exist, right? The collectives don't have a
right hemisphere. We do. So we have the chance to sort of correct ourselves when we notice that we're
wrong. If I tell myself, you know, I'm the most intelligent person in the world, my right hemisphere
is going to go like, uh, hold on a second guy, I can name like 15 ways in which you're not very
intelligent. So maybe you're making a mistake and you're like, oh yeah, right? Or if I'm about
to make a turn and my right hemisphere realizes that I've miscalculated, it's going to slow me down
and it's going to basically guide me through that turn. So I'm going to destroy myself. Okay.
But in our collectives, there's none of that. And the chance for us to correct them is basically
almost zero because by the, they're running so fast ahead of our capacity to correct them
that by the time we get anywhere near a correction, all the damage is normally done. It's been done
10 times overdone and redone again. So the 10th item on my list is that when we notice there's
a problem, we get the wrong idea about what it is. Um, and we get very excited about these
wrong ideas and we form religions of sort of conspiracy and wrong minded thought
that won't help us to interrupt the collectives. So now what do we do about all this? Okay. So
I've, I've, I've kind of outlined the problems. What are the answers? Well, the first thing is
we just need to recognize some of the things that I've talked about here because we don't
really do that. We don't realize if you don't realize you're not intelligent, you're not about
to become intelligent. That's for sure. If you absolutely think that you're successful in intelligence
and amazing and all of that, the chances of, which of course left hemisphere always thinks
that no matter what it's doing, just thinks that automatically. If you think that you're not going
to have a chance to be any different. If you think that climate change is the worst problem that we're
facing or that the war between science and religion is the worst problem that we're facing,
we're going to generate all kinds of attention and activity that does nothing except worsen the
problem. If you have no way to get any kind of intelligent grasp on the purpose of nature of
intelligence, the ecological necessities of life on earth, right? The relational nature of
intelligence and the contextual nature, the intellectual and the philosophical natures
are also important, but these, these others that we're ignoring objectively are really the basis.
So once we begin to see just as individuals first, and then we can begin to inform our
collectives much more intelligently, but these problems are going on, we've got a real shot
of changing them. Now, the other thing is we need to understand that the collectives move at a pace
that is extremely rapid compared to our ordinary ability to detect the anomalies and correct them.
And also, they're methods of intelligence, most of our collectives, incredibly narrow.
We need to broaden those dramatically into, that involve a lot of different data,
a lot of different perspectives, a lot of different forms of intelligence instead of like,
how many machines can we build and sell this year? Which is the wrong thing to be thinking about.
So once we can recognize and reorder what the problems are that we're facing and understand
some of the really important bases of these problems where they come from, and they come from
the same place throughout all of human history, right? Once we begin to understand these things,
we've got a real shot of changing them. We need to educate ourselves about the nature of our
relationships with ecology. Human beings so far, we have no idea what life on earth is, no one knows
what an organism is. And let me explain something very briefly. A single organism is worth more than
all the machines will ever produce. We're completely deluded about the value and the meaning and the
essential intelligence of nature. It's so far beyond everything we think that the wildest stories
we can make up don't come anywhere near it. You're talking about an evolutionary crystal.
Earth is like a little crystal of living evolution. That's probably a million factors
the relational age of the universe. It's a little intelligence amplifier. It synthesizes new forms
of relational contextual purpose of intelligence, billions of times per second. It makes a form
of time we don't even have words about. And we're burning that down to make little chotskies and
key rings and stuff like this. So we've completely got the wrong idea about nature. We've got to
correct that immediately. And by learning about these things, we can begin to discover what the
potentials of human intelligence actually are when the incredibly quiet but unthinkably profound
intelligence of the right hemisphere begins to be included, respected and acknowledged and also
empowered not only in our collectives but in our lives together in our relationships and the way
that we learn and think and form ideas. Once this begins to happen, we've got a real shot at changing
these things, but let's be really serious. The number one problem is that our species is not
intelligent. Our civilizations are confounded on nonsense and there's no way presently to really
get a leash on those things and correct them. Science is not helping us do that by the way. So if you
see scientists running around playing hero, they are just as misguided as everybody else. They're
serving those collectives. They're building the technologies wildly, breeding them madly into
which we're dumping what would otherwise be unthinkable evolutionary momentum for our species,
for all of the aspects of our intelligence and our abilities. We're a weird creature. We can
actually dump our evolutionary momentum into building things so that we don't evolve, things
evolve, right? And that the ecosystems don't evolve, they die, but objects evolve madly,
everywhere we look. This is the most ignorant kind of possible position we could be in.
This is worse than an incoming projectile that's going to wipe out life on earth because we have
become the projectile, right? So by understanding these things together, by learning more about them,
by continuing this discussion and expanding and even correcting some of the things that I've
spoken about today, we've got a real shot at becoming something so amazing that none of the wildest
fictions of history give us any idea about it and the reason is this. We are the living vehicle
of the entire cache, the entire sort of system of intelligence on earth has been
concentrated and represented and embodied in us, right? And we've ignored, like out of a thousand
percent, we've ignored 999 percent of it and we focused on the one deadliest and craziest aspect
and built that up madly. If we just slow that down a little bit and begin to discover some of
what that other 999 percent is about, we're going to discover thousands of new ways of
growing and learning and being intelligent and sensing and relating together. Let me explain
something really simple. A person in a living ecosystem, all of those living beings are intelligence
assets. They're like a model, it's a bad model, but a model we could use like they're an internet,
they're a living internet that's a billion fold more intelligent than anything we can possibly
build. So a person inside an ecosystem is actually a living network of intelligences that we have
nothing that compares to that. What we've got is like this broken machine that sort of limps along
and sells us bad media that makes us more insane. We need to rediscover the the nature of nature
and our relationship with it and as we do that we're going to be really shocked to see that we're
more than science fiction, we're more than science, we're a billion fold more than any religion could
ever hope to describe. You're indescribably advanced but we're being basically made into
cartoons by the way that we're playing with our intelligence. Thank you for joining me.
I look forward to continuing to learn together and discover and explore our humanity
and to try and change some of these problems. We have a real shot at doing that as soon as
we can organize them in a way that makes sense and see what the real driving forces are.
I'll see you again soon. Bye bye for now.
