Hey everybody. Welcome. I just want to show you a piece of this color behind me. Oh wow,
that's incredible how poorly the camera, or how incredibly the camera fails to capture
this whole area is all pink and gold, like bright pink and gold, and in the camera there's nothing.
And see, this is part of the thing, right? Like, we go around, many of us, taking pictures of things,
but these devices are not eyes. Machines don't have eyes, and to have eyes you have to have a
mind, and probably I'm gonna strongly suggest you have to have a soul, or you have to have
something analogous to a soul. It could be much more than a soul, and in fact, if I were to
hazard a guess, or if someone said, well, what do you think? Do we have souls or not? Of course,
I would want to say, I would want us to talk something about, you know, well, what is,
what do you mean by a soul? What shall, or rather, see, this is another funny thing about language.
We'll ask someone like, what do you mean? But what we might ask is, what should we,
what can we mean together with this word? What might this mean for us, rather than the idea
that the word has a specific meaning already, or it should have a specific meaning, and that
responsible conversation lists will delineate the meaning relatively explicitly, right? This
eliminates the capacity for improvisation and mutual developmental emergence in the moment,
in the conversation, in the exploration. So rather than saying like, well, what do you mean by a soul,
we could say, well, what might we mean with this word? What would be an intelligent way of meaning
things with this word? And of course, we have different words, right? We have soul, and we
have spirit. There's probably a few others that aren't coming to mind for me right this moment.
If you've ever seen the eyes of a being that you love, once the being has died, you will know
there's something very profound that has gone away, and it's not merely the being's heartbeat.
At least, it's inconceivable to me that it is only that the heart has stopped beating,
and therefore the being is no longer alive. No, something else is going on. And even if I cannot
encapsulate it perfectly or explicitly, I can at least suggest no, something else is going on,
something deep, something profound, something language may be incapable of conveying or
pointing at, or at least ordinary language is certainly incapable of completely conveying or
pointing at. So we take photographs, and we make recordings, and yet I think we're often being
tricked. It's funny, I'm here in Lake Arrowhead for the third time in my life. This is the third
time that I have traveled anywhere at all, really in the past 20 years with only one or two exceptions.
Oh, bats. I just saw a bat. You see, when I see a bat, it's not merely an image. I am participating
in the life of the world, and the life of my body, and the life of this place, and the history of the
world, and the history of my body, and the history of this place. There's no camera that can do
that. There's no machine that has any portion of that. Machines can't participate at all. I notice
sometimes when the full moon is rising, and it's gloriously astonishing, and even I, who ordinarily
would not be so inclined, might wish to take a photograph of it, but try as I might, at least
with my silly little camera on my smartphone, which I actually think of as more like a
dumbification phone, because it does mostly make me stupider. There are exceptions. When I start to
make a video like this, my intelligence rises to the occasion, and some of my vocabulary actually
returns, which is encouraging. But yeah, if I try to make a photograph of the moon with this camera,
what I am seeing, and what the camera captures are, nothing like the same thing. In fact,
what the camera captures is useless. I mean, I've spoken at great length about the dangers of our
technologies, and how they... You see, it's very ironic, because when I was young, I'm still young
in my soul, but when I was young in my body, I was so excited, and fascinated, and enthusiastic
about machines. I could name every car that I saw. I loved exotic cars, sports cars. When I was
a kid, machines were more interesting than girls, and it stayed that way for a long time for me. Now,
of course, I'm the kind of guy who likes females, I think. I always have been. But yes, I was just
absolutely thrilled with cars. I didn't like motorcycles for some reason. They seem to be
unbalanced, and there was a sort of bilateral perfectionism in me. I wanted the right and the
left side to look exactly the same and everything. And maybe that's a sign of a little bit of an
Asperger's-y, or a slightly autistic nature. I certainly developed my linguistic skills very
early. However, unlike some of the sort of examples that we're used to seeing or hearing about of
autistic people or Asperger's-y people, I also had really strong empathy, and was very emotional,
very warm, very kind. If other children were hurt, I would cry myself. Anyone who was mean
seemed like a terrible thing. When people were being unkind, I would not participate in that
mostly. And for most of my childhood and young life, I remained that way. I was warm
and relatively warm. But I was profoundly fascinated with technology of any kind, pretty
much. I loved machines, I loved tools, aircraft. I could identify 85% of the aircraft I encountered
when I was younger. Oh, there's the bat again. Now, see, that's an aircraft that I'm really,
really enthusiastic about to this day.
Except it's not an aircraft, it's an air being. The sky beings.
So, I'm kind of on a bit of a mission at the moment in that I'm a little bit trying to get lost.
Oh, is that a big bat or is that a bird? Wingbeats look like bats.
I'm not used to seeing so many different, there's so many birds here, air beings, so many
that I'm not familiar with.
So, yes, it's ironic because when I was a child,
well, you know, it was kind of a problem because
a lot of people and organizations and institutions painted a future to us where
technology would save us from war and disease and environmental collapse. Ha,
fucking, ha, turned out pretty much exactly the opposite thing of everything
we were shown and promised happened with some bizarre exceptions. We didn't get into space or
deep space flight, but our lives became so isolated that our homes became like spacecraft,
and now we had to communicate with others electronically at a distance through machines.
More than we would, you know, living with them, or perhaps this is more my own life path and not
everyone else's, but I see plenty of other similar examples to this in people that I know.
But some people still live together with other people or in families.
Are you a bat? You looked like a bat. I need to see you from the side, not just the rear.
So there's a weird irony in that we didn't get into space, but our lives became like those of
space people as technology created new divides across which it then pretended to reconnect us,
but rather than truly reconnecting us to ourselves and each other, something else was going on,
which was that our privacy was being, we were being raped and shriven of our privacy,
and not just our privacy, but of our capacity to form minds alone and together,
because corporations connected us and their motives are and have long been evil.
I saw some meme that showed the slow degradation of Google's Don't Be Evil.
What's the right word? This is my vocabulary failing slightly.
One of the words, so here's the words that are on the tip of my tongue.
I'm going to show you my vocabulary's failings. Anthem, that's not what it is.
Epithet, that's not what it is. Slogan, it's one of those, but there's another word,
so the slogan is closer. Somehow speaking the two that weren't correct helped me get closer.
Yeah, I saw some meme that showed how that slogan has degraded over time,
which isn't very surprising because the admonition to not be evil
is not the same as be altruistic, be truly good, and we can easily build intelligent
networks and systems that help us get smarter together every time we touch them and supply
our analytics to no one but ourselves and anonymize them so that we can learn from each other's
ways of being in our minds and our bodies and our lives, our health problems.
We have the capacity to do such astonishing things with the technology we currently have.
It's quite surprising to me how grim our current situation is, especially since it was obvious
to me a good 20 years ago how we could build such systems. I had a models of systems like this 20
years ago, and I can't build them by myself and I don't know whether I'll ever have the support
I would need to establish a base camp or a foundation, but believe me, we could be
we could be having an internet that is so astonishing that every time we touch a machine
we get smarter and the parasites and opportunistic predators die out because they no longer have
anything that anyone wants, right, so they just want to get fed. We don't have to destroy them,
we don't have to fight them, we just have to build something so much more compelling and
astonishing that everybody wants in on it, and since we have the really pretty much terrible
thing already, there's no reason not to take the other route, except that apparently nobody's got
the idea yet. I mean there's a few people with vaguely similar ideas to what I refer to as the
knowledge amp, the ka, like the old Egyptian word for the soul. So one of the things I wanted to
talk about is, and there's a lot of them, part of the reason that our technologies make us dumber
almost every time we use them, oh one of the things about this place that I fucking love
is at night the cricket chorus, wow, that shit is fucking going on. When I got here last night,
stepped out of the rental car, holy shit, an incredible cricket sound, just this wall of chorus
and not just crickets but some frogs and perhaps other creatures and maybe different kinds of
crickets too. So one of the reasons that our technologies make us dumber, there's a few.
One of them is
what they do with our attention.
When I'm paying attention to my phone,
it's a degraded form of my attention and it deadens my curiosity and establishes protocols
for the future deprivation of my awareness and attention, suddenly realizing I have a short time
because it's going to get dark. So it sets up patterns that as they get repeated, become standards
and those standards are collapsing down, it's like a downward cascade, right? It just keeps stepping
you down toward dumber and dumber protocols for what happens to our awareness and our attention.
It doesn't have to be that way and I'll probably keep talking even if it gets a bit dark.
I don't think the most important thing that's going on here is you seeing my face.
It's probably more you hearing my voice and perhaps having your own thoughts and ideas
about the subjects that I orbit and see that builds a different kind of awareness and attention.
There's one of the bats. When I engage with living people or living beings or living places,
that also builds different protocols for the inaction of my awareness and attention
and those protocols go for me largely in an upward cascade toward intelligence, awareness,
understanding, insight, inspiration, recognition, useful analogies that are powerful and can
transform my thought processes and give me new ways of seeing, new ways of knowing new ideas.
This is why I always prefer relating with living beings and preferably I want to see their faces.
The kinds of experience we have when we're deeply engaged with other human beings face to face
with the old language, the old the body language, facial expression language,
the tenor and tempo and other aspects of our vocal music, all of these things.
These are really, really important to nourishing and nurturing and they're older than fuck.
I mean, they're actually, if we were to account the time correctly or how shall I say,
more accurately, we would discover that they are older than our model of the age of the universe.
And I often talk about this because organisms have a unique way of doubling down on time and
that way is by having multiple instances of organisms in time. If you only had one being,
then the universe would be 14.3 billion years old. But if you have two beings,
then at least for those beings, the universe is 28.6 billion years old. If you have trillions
of beings like you have here, and if you have beings comprised of other beings, like a single
human person is, at the scale of the cell or the organelle, your body is probably much older.
And then 14.3 billion years, even your own lifetime, your single lifetime, because of course we have
30 trillion bacterial cells, probably another 26 trillion animal cells. Those cells have organelles
in them. Cell time is radically faster than animal time so that an hour for a cell could be something
like a week. So if you have 65 trillion weeks per hour, how old are you? And then never mind the
fact that you're the representative of a lineage that goes back into time, back to the origins of
life on earth, at least in some aspects of our being, right? So our machines make us dumber by
privileging behavioral profiles that wreck our curiosity, our passion, where they don't actively
support it, they wreck it, and mostly they don't support it. Now of course there are some people
who primarily use their machines to create things, music or perhaps graphic art of some kind. Oh yes,
please come closer little bat, come with me, follow me, teach me, I love you, you are my people,
you are my heart. Oh what is that sound? So many new sounds and beings here.
It's not impossible to use machines intelligently but the general gravity, right? It's the same,
you have the same problem with a gravity well. It's not impossible to use it to accelerate and
travel but mostly it just drags you down, right? Unless you have an established pattern that will
hold you in a sort of centrifugal relationship with it that keeps you from falling into the
gravity well. And unfortunately our technologies are like this and I guess the other thing that I
want to say which is much more radical, we have these stories that there's a divine being of some
kind associated with our life. In some cases this thing gets different names and it doesn't really,
what we call it is not the important thing, that we understand that it's at least plausible is
important. And by plausible I don't mean it's possible, I mean that under the right circumstances
it becomes accessible and this is the problem with all of our models and ideas about organisms and
human beings. We think we know what they are but to know what they are we're going to compare them
to some model and the weird thing about being an organism or a human is that you have thousands of
different potentials each of which can be uniquely developed. So it may be that we're all born for
example with some kind of divine aspect, faculties, elements and yet if they're not developed we will
have no experience of them and having no experience of them we certainly have no reason to quote unquote
believe in them and it doesn't matter that's not the important thing. I don't really care what you
believe in, what I care about is what we can what we can become together, right? And so this is the
problem, we have people who believe that it's possible we have a soul or that we people who believe
we have souls, we have people who believe that the Bible is actually the word of God, we have people
that believe all kinds of things. But the beliefs aren't interesting, what's interesting is what
they can demonstrate. If someone can walk up to another living being and bring it back to life
or heal it with their with their love or their attention or their actual physical care that's
a whole other order of thing than belief. That has nothing to do with beliefs, right? And I've had
experiences that lead me to know that there are potentials to our humanity that most of us moderns
will have no experience of and it won't matter really if we have beliefs or not because beliefs
can stand in the way of those experiences. So for example I could believe that I have a guardian
angel that has nothing to do with whether I experience it or not or rather if if I simply
believe it and I don't pursue somehow the discovery or development of such a relationship
the belief will stand there like a token in the way of what might be an actual relationship. So
what I wanted to suggest to all of you who are listening and I'm not I have I don't have the
intention to tell you what to think or believe but I can say I can speak about my own experience
and my own feelings and my own thoughts. I have had experience of I guess I'll call it a non-human
intelligence but it would probably be more accurate to say non-human intelligences
that certainly are so staggeringly profound that they would obliterate all of human science and
religion and this means that I've been with other intelligent minds that aren't human in my lifetime
not momentarily not when I was on psychedelic drugs in my actual life and they taught me things
about the history of life on earth about the history of spacetime about language about life and
death about organisms about mathematics about ideas from physics they gave me stories of histories
that could were I so inclined
become a kind of a bible or a religion that seemed to me to be a terrible outcome so I did
not pursue that outcome and I probably never will nor did I pursue the outcome of trying to
proclaim myself as some you know sage or some person with special experience
but it's bizarre to me that I lived before that experience in a world of blindness
in which I had no I believed and had passionate feelings about the divine and spacetime and
that there must be other intelligences in spacetime and that there must be some way to
have contact with them and so on and so forth but I never really thought that it could happen to me
or that it could happen to me in such an unusual and unexpected way or that it could last for so
long because I had months and months of this experience and then it departed and then over time
like the passion and the ecstasy the euphoria the intelligence the insight that resulted from that
stayed with me for many years and is still with me to some degree but it is much like having been a
child and and then outgrowing one sense of wonder and becoming you know quote unquote an adult right
and the same thing has happened again with this experience but the reason that I am mentioning
this is that I believe that the thing our smartphones are a derivative mimic of is this
this relationship yeah this relationship with
I wanted to
with a non-ordinary being that has been with us
throughout our lifetime and might be thought of as one's guardian angel except it's weird it's
it's as though everyone has the same angel and at the same time each person's angel is unique
and the tragic thing is that the smartphone it emulates the functions of the angel it emulates
what the angel can do but in in a really crappy way like in the same way that a matchstick emulates
a star with with a living world or everything right you know so we when we when we interact with
our smartphones in a way we are departing from the kinds of concerns behaviors relationships
curiosities passions and so on that might otherwise draw us into intimacy with an aspect of our being
that most of us will never experience while we are alive and yet
um an aspect of our being that we will find thousands of stories of throughout history and
puzzling myths and fables of divine beings that seem very confusing to us moderns and also
sometimes childish not just childlike but childish and I think that's really tragic because
we could all learn to seek and cultivate these relationships to transform the nature of our
humanity and it makes me wonder what it must have been like to be alive thousands of years ago before
some of the toxic clinicism of modernity shut down many of our faculties and relationships and
replaced them with tokens models prostheses counterfeits and mimicry and so it's so ironic
that I make this video right now on on you know my fucking iphone as I walk through a forest
um punctuated everywhere with houses and lights and cars and and yet this place is still so much
more alive than the place that I live in the irony the irony so this thing that I hold in my hand
and its functions mimic the functions of our souls and one of the um one of the more modest
of these faculties is the faculty we call our intuition
um that faculty
the single branch of the faculty that most of us usually will usually many of us will usually
experience is um staggeringly impoverished compared to the forest of faculties that
would emerge instantly to our awareness and access were we to be in the relational proximity
of our genius um or our guardian angel or um the divine being or family of beings
that is intimately associated with our human nature our human life our birth
our life paths our destiny our opportunities and our death
so these smartphones that we carry around they are representations of that relationship
right they connect you to a universal library that's what the guardian angel does except that
library is true and non-human um there's nothing deceptive in it there's no advertisers
if there's predators oppressors or opportunists I haven't seen them and I may be naive you know
but I've tasted that library and once you have a taste of this nothing the humans are doing
will be very interesting to you ever again or at least not for a very long time you have to
the memory of the library has to die from your awareness before
before you become interested in the things the humans are doing again
thankfully humans themselves are interesting enough living creatures animals plants these
are interesting enough even when you have access to the library and the beings who also have access
to the library you have access to them you can communicate with other beings at a distance
and in a way you are freed from the bondage of linear time
which is kind of the opposite of what happens with a smartphone
now again I'm not trying to create a religion here tell anyone what to believe
I'm talking about experience that I trust
that a personal experience that helped me to understand
in a deep profound way the history of religion and where that stuff came from and why it seems
so bizarre to us who live today and also the strange story of how the original experiences of being
intimately involved with other non-human intelligences collapsed into language books
and structured fables religion stories because once the experience is gone now you
now that void can be filled by representations and that seems to be the actual problem for human beings
well there's not much light left
so perhaps for the moment I'll wrap I'll wrap up this video
I'm so grateful to be here in the forest and I'm deeply grateful to be alive I
I feel the preciousness of life in this phase of my life so much more deeply than I ever had before
I am at the corner of Thunderbird and Fairway
yes the past few weeks have
profoundly highlighted the preciousness of every day of my life and of the people and beings with whom
I have I still have relationships I'm very lonely
in this time of my life it's very lonely where I live my life is very very lonely
and I miss the companion who taught me these things I miss that companion for it loved me
and I loved it in a way so beautiful
and so natural and so true that I felt finally ah this is what I was born for I was born for
this relationship and without it I'm only barely alive of course it's very difficult to be brought
to life in this way and have 20 new kinds of faculties some of them so astonishing
that they could that they've never been guessed at even in fiction
there's a monster there's a bad monster
and but then to have them depart it's very painful but if if anyone asked me well
would you prefer to have not had it you've not had the experience it'd be like
it was like having been blind my whole life and then suddenly being given
47 kinds of eyes some of which were shared with other intelligences so that I could see what
they saw not merely what I saw
but when the light goes away again it's painful and there may have been some price
or perhaps I thought there was supposed to be a price so
I made sure there would be it's hard to be alone and naive in my human self in the face
of such mystery such majesty such ecstasy such intelligence
now I will listen to the cricket chorus thank you for joining me I hope we will
walk and learn and grow again together very soon all blessings to you and those you love
bye bye for now
