So, I'm going to transcribe a conversation between me and my friend Josh that happened
today on Signal, and I'm going to replay some of the audio recordings that I sent to Josh
during our conversation.
He starts out with a question, why do you think we're lacking forgiveness as a society?
And I say, almost total lack of anything resembling authentic community.
This leads to a falsification of our nature and humanity, which brings cordial mind and
false ideas about individuals.
The myth of the individual is a foundational fiction that serves modern slave-making protocols.
He asks, Darren, tomorrow you become leader of the free world.
What are the first three things you mandate?
I hold off on answering this question.
After my first answer, he continues, who are the controllers, and more importantly, can
you imagine a better, more realistic model that can take us to the same scale population
of human beings?
I say, not who, what.
Though humans are involved, there's a broad array of psyops involved.
What is effectively running the show are thrips.
These are daemon-like processes that compete for dominance in the human cognisium, that
is, the network of human minds, and essentially run humanity.
Josh says, thrips seem like mental models almost, energetic idea pathways being governed
by a non-ideal force.
I say there's a far worse problem with object populations than humans.
He says their prime directive is resource accumulation, the thrips.
It doesn't seem like they feed off chaos because they need structure to ensure their
system's survival, and I say no, it's network dominance and reproduction.
They don't care about survival at all, it's a cancer model.
He says, oh no, but don't the cancerous cells themselves want to survive?
And I say rapid propagation in the production of new, more aggressive thrips is the only
agenda.
He says a growth is uncontrolled cellular replication and I say at any cost, it's effectively
anti-life.
And he says coming from where exactly, and I say complex issue, Josh, is it the diametric
force to love energy, wouldn't it be needed for balance?
And I say from one perspective, it's a problem of representational cognition divorced from
any direct experience of origin, God.
And then I began talking, so now you'll hear some transcriptions of my recordings.
So the problem with cancer is it's survival of the cells, right?
It's the idea of the individual.
Survival of the cells at any cost, including the cost of the entire system of life, right?
No problem disposing of life as long as these cells can just propagate.
For whatever this is worth and it's personal, it's important to understand that the essay
I was working on, in which I first formulated the idea of the cognizium, the mimula, which
is the network within the cognizium, and thrisps, which are the organisms that live
in the network, it was at the moment when I invented the word, I went into my imagination
to invent the word for the mimula, that's when ToyMaker showed up at that moment, right?
Exactly.
And so I was thinking about something in a very deep way that apparently was linked
to ToyMaker in some way.
It's as if, hang on, so ToyMaker is a reference to ToyMaker is a reference to a non-human
intelligence that instructed me over a period of time in 2002.
I will answer the other questions.
I'm just sort of going through the thread, if I had a keyboard, this would be so much
easier, but signal doesn't run on the laptop that I've got here.
So to understand this model, the cognizium has to be thought of as an analog of a physical
environment that has the same kinds of features that a physical environment has.
And instead of having organisms circulating in that environment, what you have are thrisps.
Most of the thrisps are domineering and cancer-like.
There are some beneficial modes of thrisps, but those are easily captured by the dominant
forms and weaponized and turned into new ways to make new ways of making thrisps and dominating
the network, dominating the transports, propagating madly at any cost, this kind of thing.
And there's nothing really in human culture or thought that opposes this process.
One of the early things was religion, and the thrisps could be thought of as very similar
to demons.
They are endlessly hungry, they have no moral or ethical concerns whatsoever.
Effectively, the sort of prime directive is simply dominate and reproduce.
So you have the problem with knowledge itself, and this goes back to Genesis and other creation
stories where suddenly the concept of making cuts in the manifold of identity arises.
And once this happens, you're going to have thrisps eventually, where we're very late
in this process, and what is the opposite of thrisps.
So knowledge is essentially dead insight, and insight is a way of uncutting the manifold.
This is what toy makers, all of his thought and my experience of his mind, whenever he
showed me something, it not only did not make new cuts, it mended the manifold of unity
so that anything he presented could be seen from the aspect of like any way of knowledge
humans have, music, math, geometry, biology, poetics, linguistics, semantics, all of these
things, rather than being separate ways of knowing in toy makers mind, he reunifies them
more profoundly with each move he makes, and it becomes a geometric progression.
All right, that was just a bad recording.
Wasps are not thrisps like, though in a way, thrisps take on the reproductive aspect of
organisms, but it's in an entirely, the whole terrain is fundamentally cognitive rather
than physical.
The opposite of thrisps is something that resembles communion, or the mutually liberating
pursuit of insight, wonder, awareness, consciousness, not just consciousness as in I'm awake, consciousness
as in understanding the features of the mind.
This effectively cures thrisps.
I'm going to go back to the question about what I would do.
So first of all, it's a very abstract and hypothetical question, but one thing that
would have to occur would be the elimination of commodity-based economies.
Money would have to go away.
The benefit of work would have to be much more equally distributed.
We would have to have broad, deep, rich education for everyone, free, all the time.
And then we would have to set ourselves the task of discovering what it means to assemble
intelligent societies and running the experiments with that to try to find out how it's possible
for humans to be intelligent in a technological age.
Those are some of the things that would happen.
Josh says, put on your courtroom mind for a minute.
What capitalistic products could humanity benefit from?
Us moderns do not realize the incredibly important necessity of privacy.
There are certain aspects of consciousness and awareness that will never show up for
public display.
And we're doing the opposite.
We're trying to make everything a product for public display.
So privacy would be a fundamental concern.
For me, obviously, the fundamental capitalistic product would be something resembling the
knowledge amp, where we could get smarter together every time we touch machines.
We would be trained linguistically and semantically in methods that lead away from thrips toward
insight and mutually liberating intelligence.
We would use our analytics to learn how to learn better as individuals and together and
to solve broad problems in society.
So that thing seems a foundational step that we're totally overlooking.
We're using the internet wrong.
We have been from pretty much the get-go.
Privacy is absolutely essential to awareness and consciousness, to learning and insight.
It's essential to our humanity.
Anything that begins to compromise that is going to lead to catastrophic problems in
the near-term future.
There are certain faculties in consciousness that refuse to show up for public display
and are completely uninterested in being tested in the lab.
Many of these include things like telepathy, touch healing, hypnosis is one that can be
lab demonstrated because it's such a deeply rooted feature of human cognition that we
really don't understand at all.
But there are a lot of features that will not show up for testing our public display
and as our privacy gets more catastrophically invaded and the panopticon of surveillance
becomes a part of every single experience of communication we have is either actually
or potentially being recorded.
This creates a nightmare for the psyche.
The internet as we currently experience it mostly makes the populations dumber every
time they touch a machine.
We have to reach for the opposite of that outcome.
Telepathy is a natural faculty of humans but the idea is backwards because what's actually
going on is something so amazing and demonstrable that humans haven't even imagined it.
Telepathy is the toy, the sort of concept toy that we use to describe something we think
of as supernatural but it's actually more mundane than we could possibly imagine and
natural to all humans.
One thing I've noticed since the pandemic is that many humans are starting to communicate
with sign language in public.
It's more women and children but I've seen a lot more like even in my walks people will
communicate with me especially children and elderly people with hand signals and I find
this really important because there used to be essentially a universal language that
was physical rather than verbal this was lost.
Josh asks Darren is telepathy innate can it be cultivated in adults?
Going back to the problem with the propagation of objects so the earth can easily sustain
7.X billion humans it cannot easily sustain 50 billion objects you know 10 million packets
of ketchup per second or something like this right photographs and electronic representations
have survival costs in the near and far term future we cannot photograph everything a million
times and store all that shit and back it up like photographs are literally eating the
planet right and these are just images they're representations you can see the humans have
gone representationally insane they make representations of every single thing but they don't attend
any of the things they're making representations of yes telepathy can be cultivated in adults
and it naturally occurs in situations of high intimacy with lovers close friends and people
especially if we are questing together for something noble the originary faculties tend
to wake up and get interested it's really important to imagine acts and behaviors that
are so beautiful and so profoundly noble that the entire history of life on earth gets on
board under those situations the non-ordinary becomes the ordinary Josh says this could
partly be why women who live together end up sharing the same cycle now here's where
things get truly interesting in this conversation together we are doing such a thing and because
we are doing such a thing other intelligences naturally wake up and start paying attention
the same as when a great poet begins to compose something astonishing or brilliant musician
or symphony is happening right this is where the magic starts to awaken and realize oh
the humans are making a context down there that actually involves origin let's get involved
so in a way in this conversation we're doing what I'm talking about we're actually enacting
what I'm talking about by chasing it together you follow he says yes synchronization is
a foundational property of human experience in nature that we need to pay vastly more
attention to we're synchronizing for the wrong reasons in ways that are mechanomorphic this
will obliterate our health and minds in very short order given the capacity that we have
now to enact this on a pretty much worldwide scale instant to instant second to second
right we're synchronizing to machines and machines organisms are symphonic and machines
are monotonic so or monotonic so this creates a catastrophic devastating waves of desynchronization
for biology cognition insight and the faculties that we require in order to understand the
problems that our machines are generating josh asks what makes machines monotonic over the
past three years I've become aware of the trenchant necessity of biorelational synchrony
for human beings and health because of catastrophic desynchronization in my own life my sleep
cycles my oniric cycles those are the dreaming rhythms actually got so desynchronized they split
apart so that my body was trying to dream when I wasn't asleep and was not dreaming when I slept
this is a terrifying vision of a future that we definitely want to fucking interfere with
biological rhythms are complex and flexible and they take into account the entire history and
future of life on earth not into account they they directly involve so you could in one sense
you can say they are true right they are true to relation machines instead are true to function
utility that's the opposite of what's going on in organisms also try to imagine for a moment
that particles whatever they may be electrons photons etc are actually beings that have experience
right in an organismal world the experience of the particles is fabulously profound and produces
new forms of time and all kinds of relationships it's essentially it makes infinite flowers in
time and relation machines do the opposite of this they run the particles through the same paths
a billion times per second if those particles were alive that would be hell for particles
we don't yet know anything meaningful about time or light and we have entirely the wrong ideas we
think space is empty let me be really clear about something the earth is doing something so profound
that it produces organisms and minds as a side effect of its behavior what is the earth doing in
time space this is the kind of idea we need to chase and try to understand and we can ask the earth
since we're made of it it's very important to have a much different understanding of the nature
of time than the one that we have I can't present a simple model quickly but it turns out that it
looks like the universe is instinct instancing itself in distinct beings and those beings have
private timelines those private timelines combine to form synergies and communion potential
that vastly outweighs the potential of not having separate beings so there's something going on in
nature with time that I can explain just not in a brief simple trope I'm trying to come up with one
and I'll see if I can but time is essentially something really astonishing that is nothing
like the linearity that we think of in mechanical time mechanical time is a fallacy
also whatever the hell it is light is doing it is not travel it has nothing to do with speed
what light is being is again similar to even a superposition of the earth it generates living
worlds and minds as a side effect of what it's up to it's up to something truly astonishing
and the humans don't have the slightest idea what that might be
Josh says outer space in quotes can be seen as a grid of suspended masses
and see this is the kind of thing we are made for this is what I want to be doing with others like
you all day long every day I want to discover the the potentials of our humanity that have been
fucking paved over with representations and technology
in time space mass appears to be crystallization of character so if you see living beings in
myriad forms all over the earth what you're actually looking at are localized crystallizations
of the character and intelligence of spacetime itself
Josh says light has nothing to do with speed light generates living worlds and minds as a side
effect of what it's up to it's honestly is if all the worlds in time space are instanced here
as organisms and this is the kind of a thought that we need to be having if we want to have
any chance of understanding and contacting the intelligences that nature is
so on earth we have what we can understand is distinct cognizia right the cognizia of the
fungi the cognizia of the grasses and plants and trees and jungles but we also have synergistic
cognizia living places right the amazon rainforest the deep ocean before man was obliterating it
so there's there's all these linked cognizia here and what they're doing is their warping time
they're making forms in time together that radically exceed anything we can imagine because
we have no concepts about this whatsoever yet but we can and these are the things that we need
to teach our children these are what our children are starving for if we care about our children
we will liberate them from representational consciousness and take them into the direct
experience of their nature in time space as intelligent beings with and for each other
you know part of me can imagine like a board game or something escape from representational
cognition the way that humans are playing with rep cog at this point in time essentially places us
all in a kind of prison mind where none of the originary goals are present they've all been
counterfeited a thousand times over and we're busy chasing phantoms in a graveyard of what could be
astonishing brilliance discovery awareness learning something that actually resembles growth
in the non-cancerous version and so on josh asks what is an example of non-representational
consciousness dreaming is the best near at hand example in dreaming identity is nothing like it
is in representational consciousness it's multi-dimensional and has many dimensions accessible
to feel to felt meaningfulness so dreaming is largely an escape when in dreaming when
ideas of of concrete identity begin to emerge we're about to wake up the dream is going to
undergo apocalypse but dreaming is is an excellent near at hand example of non-representational
cognition yes there are still representations in it and we have to you know think in terms of bar
fields exposition in saving the appearances about what he calls original participation
in in their view everything was representations of the of the origin world right so like the idea
for example they would immediately think a thought like as bees are to flowers something is to minds
right as bees are to honey something is to intelligence and in effect they were trying
to create that kind of honey through writing with the early scriptoriums and this you know recalls
toth and the logos and ideas like this but what i'm getting at is like almost all the humans thought
that the holy beings were local to mountains why might that be it might be because they understood
reflection right so that the mountaintop is is touching the heavens and similarly there's an
inverse mountain in the origin world that is touching the mountaintop right thus you get things
like pyramids where they're like well we want the origin world to touch our world right here
where where we built our cities and now you see the onset of the problem with representation right
now we're going to make machines to manipulate the gods josh says this is amazing thank you
so this has just been a brief overview of some topics that are dear to my heart
and i wanted to to just replay it into recording so that we had a record of the conversation
i hope that you may find it interesting or find something fascinating about some of the ideas
that we were able to explore together thanks for joining me
