Hello, everybody. Welcome. I'm out on a night walk at the moment. Well, I'm not entirely
sure what to speak of yet. Though I had some very urgent concerns and ideas earlier in the day,
perhaps they will reemerge in my awareness as I'm walking. It's the full moon, and of course,
every culture deals differently with this in our modern Western cultures. This is either
something that's completely overlooked, largely or completely. I think farmers and people who are
involved in agriculture are aware of it. In many indigenous cultures, the moon is the actual
timekeeper primarily, or the moon encompassed by the sun. There are sun ceremonies, most often
only twice a year, and then the moon is pretty much the timekeeper. In our Western modern lives,
we tend to think of things with very fine cuts. This is one second, this is one minute, this is
one hour, this is one day. But yet in the natural world and in living time, which is a completely
different thing that partakes nearly not at all of all of these cuts, things flow together and one
day is different from the next. One hour or some span of time is a different thing from another
span of time because the concern is not on the metric, it's on the content. I was speaking with
my friend today, Megan, about how confused our ideas about time are and that fundamentally time
is a relation. Relationships cause time to blossom into myriad forms of time and context and feeling.
These can be profoundly complex even in a few moments. Of course, the easiest example of this
is an unexpected catastrophe, such as a car accident or something like this. There's another
kind of sudden efflorescence that happens when, for example, we meet a stranger with whom we have an
immediate enthusiastic affinity and now time blossoms into beautiful sharing and mutuality and the
dissolving of my separate self into the relationship with another and the transformations and
potentials and opportunities and possibilities that they're from arise. We are trained by our
culture and language, particularly in English, to think of ourselves as separate individuals and
that I am me and I am the same me in all times and circumstances. Firstly, this is not even possible.
It's not only implausible, it's formally not possible. That thing we think of as ourselves
is like an animal thinking of itself when it's in a cage separated from all other things,
right? From the weather, from the sunlight, from the moonlight, from the stars, from the plants and
animals, from the humans, from everything. And really, you can't get that kind of separation
except in language. Language can imply this degree of distinction. I am myself alone,
right now, always, I am myself. It's just not plausible because most of what we are,
in fact, all of what we are, including the self that we're thinking about in this way,
is a function of memory, right? So,
it's an illusion, yeah? It's an illusion of a separate self. And when we are alone,
this illusion seems pervasive and maybe even real. But we are never alone because the mind
with which we are alone is the progeny of myriad moments of deep and superficial,
pragmatic and creative relation with other beings. In fact, our capacity to have memory
is something we are trained, largely trained to in our childhood by the processes of in
language and in culture. So, there is no self that is alone.
There is no stable abiding self like the one that we think of when we think of myself, me.
There is, I think, what we do in our thinking and in our language, both. And both of these things
are very strange things, right? Nothing is as strange as language. Language is one of the
weirdest things on earth. It's far weirder than all of the things we think of as weird.
It's a very peculiar anomaly that one of the animals here became a formal
representational cognitive and then began to suffer catastrophic epochs of devolution into
representation in machines. Not that representation is only bad, but our people are very vulnerable,
our people, I mean all humans. We're very vulnerable, not just to the peculiar idiosyncrasies
of representational thought. We're vulnerable to a vast encyclopedia of pathologies
that involve language and modeling and representational thought.
And this is one of the most compelling areas of concern and fascination and study for me.
Perhaps I am optimistic in the sense that I feel that it's possible.
No, I don't just feel it's possible. I know that it's achievable that we could
effectively immunize humans in general, but particularly small cohorts of humans,
from the problems in language with education about these problems and about how to negotiate with
them. But one of the most trenchant problems we would face in such a circumstance is to get
people to think differently about what it means to be a self in the world.
It's true for many of us that our daily lives are spent either in working, in which case we're
having mostly, probably, though not in all cases, superficial transactions with many strangers
and institutions and businesses and so on. And then we're having some special time
with people or animals and places that we love and care about. And we should notice that we are
not the same person in those two things. We are different people. We change dramatically
under the influence nearly of observation by another human.
We are our species as animals. We are evolved. I don't like the the trope. We are wired. I
don't like this trope at all. It doesn't mean I'll never use it, but I'm very
unfawned of it. We have evolved to be animals who are deeply concerned about observation.
And in case this isn't clear, just look at the superficial aspects of clothing and fashion,
commodities, which brands of things we use, which shows we watch,
our homes, our possessions, our bookshelves, all of these things are
aspects of our modern behavior that get folded into display behavior, right, where we're making
displays. And we make displays because we are sensitive to being observed and observation
changes us. If I am totally unobserved by anyone, then I will do different things than I will do
if I think I might be being observed or if I think I am being observed. Now, of course,
in our time, we have the really bizarre complication
of having this
feature of our humanity captured by the internet and social media and so on.
And most of these things I think of as terrifying, really they're like demons or horrible diseases.
So, somebody figured out, oh, humans want to be observed. Therefore, a context was created
where we could participate to some degree in observing mostly trivial things about each other
from day to day, moment to moment, on Facebook, Instagram, and so on. And then you got behaviors
like people taking photographs of their meals. In case you think people don't want to be observed,
just watch them take photographs of food that they are eating or have prepared or have bought at a
restaurant. And then publishing those not merely for their friends, but as an advertisement of
what kind of a self is there. And of course, even these videos that I make and the recordings that
I make, they are also partly a display behavior. There's an idea that if we make the right kind
of display, we will get new relationships and opportunities that are very valuable.
And this sometimes happens. But other weird things happen like
the phenomenon that we currently call influencers, which is a truly strange
and frightening outgrowth of social media in the modern age.
So, you know, a gentleman just walked out of his house across the street, he's on the phone,
I'm on the phone. We're both aware of each other. That changes me. And it changes him,
right? We both know, oh, there's another human nearby watching.
And we might think of, we could think of many ways to divide this. But if I'm thinking very
simply, I'll think of three ways. Judgment or evaluation.
Positive observation, where someone is seeing me and I have reason to believe
they are positively impressed with what I am doing or not doing.
Who I am being or not being. We have voyeurism, right? Which is just the
curiosity about, well, what are other people doing? What do they do?
And there are a number of other features like fascination or attraction or threats,
right? Does this person present a threat or not? All of these things.
Does that person think I present a threat? Is another complexity that many people of color
struggle with? And in our time now, not people, you know, non people of color, I guess that includes me,
are now finally feeling the sting of some of that themselves.
And of course, everything is contextual and depends on where you are, who you're with,
what the context is, what's going on, what people are paying attention to. But you can see by this
discussion that selves are always transforming. And when we're not in relation with actual human
beings, that we have meaningful context in history or potential for deep relation with,
when we are not there, then we are prone to anxiety. Because we can't tell if we have friends,
if we will be helped in a crisis, if we are valued, if we are loved, if our life is meaningful,
to whom is it meaningful if there are no others. And many people who are isolated or sick or injured
or struggling to heal or to die or are struggling with terrible problems and have no
real way to form new social relationships, these anxieties become extremely profound
and trenchant. And they can become so profound that they take over the mind entirely. And now,
the self of the person is lost in a storm of confusion, resentment, anxiety, despair,
loss of self-esteem and social face. This thing that I refer to as social face is incredibly
important to human beings. What does the every person see when they see me? What does the every
person think when they see me? And so, we can actually find ourselves in situations where
it's impossible to have a self at all. What we have instead are anxieties, thoughts, concerns,
remembered pain or slights or histories,
expected punishments or deprivations,
the desire for justice, for wrongs we previously suffered or traumas we've suffered,
for rebalancing, for reparations, and so on.
You know, one of the things that had occurred to me to speak about was
I was speaking with a friend of mine, William, the other night, and
William, like all of us, has a very peculiar and personal array of life situations.
But many of these concerns that I've mentioned are important to him.
And we were talking about the every man. What does society treat me as? What does society see me
as? And it occurred to me as we were speaking that the things we think of as our governments or
our societies, our collectives, these are primarily bad things. And some would argue,
these are great things. They've saved us from constant war and poverty and so on.
There's a guy who wrote a book with a bunch of statistics in it about how much better our
lives are today than they ever were in the past. Well, and I read this book. And it's
sort of a book about what's right in the world. I can't recall the title at the moment. And frankly,
it's not even worth recalling. Although he's not entirely incorrect, his statistics
are not a real, neither are they complete. So he becomes entirely wrong if we destroy the oceans
or if the atmosphere is permanently wrecked or if our bodies and environments become so poisoned
that we can no longer continue to live. Or if there's a pandemic that kills off,
say, two thirds or more of the human population,
he's kind of got it wrong in the sense of, yeah, for the moment, the specific things he's chosen
to highlight appear to have improved over, say, the past 100 or 500 years. It's true.
But so many other things have declined and none of these are being accounted for in this argument.
My point, however, or rather the direction I wanted to travel in was that
relating with society is really like relating with a seething tangled mess of demons
that are all vying to capture and control our attention, our awareness, our thinking, our
political and relational affiliations, where we spend money, what we think of as valuable or
what we value, what we purchase, what we don't purchase, and all of these things. And it's like
living in a world where there is an array, a big collection of strange gods.
And these gods are not benevolent. None of them are benevolent.
Our species has failed nearly entirely to establish anything resembling a benevolence.
And so we are on the grip. It's funny when people say they don't believe in God because
I'd be like you don't believe in the United States. You don't believe in California.
You don't believe in the police. You don't believe in the fire department. You don't believe in the
IRS. You don't believe in Facebook, Google, Twitter, Instagram. I think they may think,
no, I mean a metaphysical God. Okay, great. You don't believe in a metaphysical God. Well,
it's not a requirement that you believe or don't believe in a metaphysical God.
But you should recognize that in our daily lives, there are gods everywhere. They interrupt our
television shows every five to eight minutes to impose their attempt at hypnotizing us on us.
And then we have the actual religions as well, whether or not those have anything to do with
actual gods. So it's a complex mess. But the thing that I wanted to say is simply this.
Our relationships with society and our nations and our nations' relationships with each other,
these are like bad gods. And they are very domineering. And they are unstoppably momentous.
This momentum has been being built and fed and goes on and on and on. And it's part of what's
killing people with COVID because apparently, many people think we should continue with society
the way it was before the pandemic. Well, that's an insane idea. It's not an unreasonable idea
in terms of expectations. But it's an unsurvivable idea in terms of pragmatic reality of life on
earth circa 2022. And many people find themselves, this word that we use is not a very good one.
But in fact, nearly everyone who isn't quite wealthy in their local context
is being eviscerated in terms of the privileges and opportunities that descend to them from the
hands of these strange gods that no one is in control of and that are deeply influencing
and controlling our species and have effectively kidnapped us.
So that's a very weird situation. Now, I've remarked in recent videos that I think it's only
very recently that humans have been capable of thinking about anything like the world,
or even really much like their nation. The United States is a pretty new thing.
Other nations are older and that is meaningful that they are older because they have richer
culture and traditions and they've preserved much older culture and traditions, even in
modernity, that are important, that give spaciousness and dimensionality to human
experience, existence, and expectation, evaluation, and so on.
But I think we've only been capable of thinking about the world for a very short period of time.
And it's not clear to me at all that humans are endowed with the faculties that would allow us
to think meaningfully about something as complex as the world. What will happen instead is we will
begin thinking with a peculiar set of purposes or concerns that will constrict our view and we
will begin cutting up the pie into very narrow views about some specific thing like the environment
or identity politics. So I don't think we're very good and nor do I think we are meant for
thinking about the world and this brings me to my next direction. It's funny I'm looking right now
at a house and this is not the direction I was intending,
but it appeared recently in a very profound dreaming experience that I had. I used to know
someone who lived in this home, a young African American man who I loved very much and was a
brilliant prodigy. His name was Aaron Thompson. I don't know if he's still around. He and his
mom lived in this house and it's interesting to see the place that I saw in a dream.
Now I don't think we can fix the world. I think what we can do and what we should perhaps do,
if that's a reasonable idea at all, the shouldness idea, is we can improve the local situation.
We can deepen our relationships and form really rich and meaningful relationships
with nature and each other and the land and this transforms the nature of isolation,
the nature of ourselves, what it means to be a self dramatically. So the scope that we have really
effective influence in is the interpersonal and perhaps the local communal scope.
With the onset of the internet this has changed somewhat. We have people now who have very broad
reach and very few of those seem to take that responsibility to heart. They often or maybe
just those ones I'm concerned about. See my concerns also delineate the scope of what I
will look at or look for or select. This is called exertion by the way and human
representational consciousness is highly exertive. We make exertions. We take an excerpt based on our
purposes, inclinations and sequencing what we've previously recently been exposed to
and are thus sort of triggered by in our consciousness.
Many of these people do not seem to take their responsibilities very seriously.
People who've acquired enormous audiences. They seem to go about it some of them, the ones I'm
concerned with particularly. Somewhat recklessly and often extremely recklessly. There are exceptions
to that where people take their audiences and the scope very seriously. Someone who comes to mind
there. I won't mention the negative concerns I had but Daniel Schmockenberger is someone who takes
these concerns deeply to heart and there are many other people like him Peter Teal, Eric Weinstein
and each of these are very unique and powerful minds each of these people.
These positive ones I mentioned and so it is possible to affect broad change
but for most of us the scope is narrow. You know I was talking with another friend of mine the other day
and he was saying there's all these concerns and politics and news and all of this junk
and this is constantly going on and everybody's blathering on and on about it as if it were important
but the most important thing to me
is in the morning when my wife texts me that she's awake and that's really interesting
not by itself. He discovers that his wife has awoken by receiving a text on his smartphone.
This is Life Circuit 2022. When I realize my wife is awake then I go to the kitchen
and I make us some tea and we go out in the backyard with our animals and we sit and have tea
and the peacefulness and beauty of that moment is so profound and this I think is meaningful
and he said you know how can this affect the world and I said well maybe we're all connected
and I don't think it's actually a maybe. I think it's a certainty the human
cognizium is a real thing. We are all deeply connected in hundreds of ways we have no language
or ideas about. We influence each other's minds without obvious mechanism superficial mechanism
our bodies and minds are influenced by each other and the world situation constantly.
The world is our body and our body is a sub body of the world and all of these things seem
very clear to me though I'm not trying to convince anyone of them particularly
but the analogy I gave to him was you know when the kidney is in good health it cleans the blood
very effectively and this relieves tension on the whole body and so maybe the peacefulness
and the joy that you experience there maybe they are cleansing the world something like this
and once again we see here a completely different idea of the meaningfulness of
what it means to be a person or a self that we have the capacity by living meaningfully
and by engaging each other with grace and respect and reverence and awareness
to transform the invisible aspects underneath all the superficial noise that turn out to be
truly important in life. And so I'd like to highlight the perspective that we can't take care of the
world the problems of the world are enormous and profoundly complex but what we might be able to do
together even in very small groups even in a group of two people a man and his wife in the
backyard with their animals of course that's the people plus the animals plus the place plus the
sky plus yeah right what we might be able to do is become a place a living place of deep
reverence and love and awareness and softness and kindness and generosity and virtue
and this is profoundly meaningful and as times become more dark and confusing it simply becomes
more meaningful in a time of great crisis small acts of beauty are profoundly transformative and
informative and so even in small groups perhaps especially in small groups we might be able to
forge a new ways of being new ways of being human together that turn out to become contagious
we can form the opposite of a pathogen we can form something that spreads and transforms the world
together a little bit at a time one seed here one seed there but this it seems to me is one of the
best hopes we have for creating opportunities for the future of life on earth for humanity
and particularly for each other in our day-to-day lives
thank you for joining me I deeply appreciate the time that you spend in attending my walkabouts
and I deeply value your questions thoughts concerns please feel free to add them in the comments
and I also deeply value anyone who would like to share or
you know advertise my work so that I might might reach so that my display behavior could
succeed a bit more effectively all blessings to you may you and those you love be safe and happy
and joyful and have beauty in your lives bye bye for now
