Hey everybody, it's Matt walking around the lake and I got a lot of things on my mind,
but my mind's also quiet, it's not like bubbling.
And it's strange how, if I begin to speak or make a recording or something, the foam
on the surface of my mind, it starts to become structured.
It becomes compelling in a way to my own consciousness.
But I noticed earlier that there was a man, young guy, bearded, denim, baseball cap, sunglasses.
And he was walking eight dogs and, you know, our ordinary mind is inclined to see something
like this and just think, of course, he's a dog walker, he's walking eight dogs.
No, think about the fucking problem for a moment.
We have eight leashes, they mustn't become tangled or the whole thing collapses.
The dogs are separately very excitable.
If you show them a cat or, as I just watched him walk past, a goose within two or three
feet of their face, the dogs are going to go nuts, we would imagine, right?
Not these dogs.
These dogs are not from one place, right?
Very unlikely that even two of them are from the same place.
This guy's walking the dogs, none of them are pulling on the leash, none of them get
overexcited when they see, you know, animals or even food.
The coherence that he's holding over that pack, it looks supernatural to me.
Now you could say, oh, he just, you know, these are just very well-behaved dogs.
No, they'd have to be super well-behaved not to tangle eight leashes at all.
I watched him walk for, you know, a quarter mile, no tangling.
These dogs are walking like they are one organism.
And the coherence in that pack is superb, right?
It's unimaginable.
Now you see examples of humans doing pack coherence behavior that's really profound.
We make movies about this, little heroic and or criminal gangs, right, that want to, for
example, hold up an armored car or take over parts of a foreign city, restructure the entire
framework there for two hours while they keep something terrible from happening.
Or cheerleaders, right, or sports teams or rock bands.
You can see this really high coherence.
Now in almost all of those things, the people who are doing them, those things, they are
not free.
They are not free separate agents.
What they are is capable of enacting a set of rules together that produces group coherence.
And most of those highly coherent little groups, little pods, they have a conductor, right,
someone who's not doing the rules, someone who is synchronizing them.
And from outside the group, viewing them and reorganizing them, correcting, enhancing,
all of these things, right?
And we seem to think that humans really want to be free.
Well, if the catastrophic decoherence that we commonly experience as separate, isolated
human beings is freedom, I think we're confused about the whole idea of what liberty means.
Because often liberty really means membership in a structure that's trusted, tried and true,
right, virtuous, triumphant, not in some representation of triumph, but in actual triumph, right?
Something that like all of life on earth would stand up and cheer about or the entire history
of human ancestors be like, wow, they did it, you know, this kind of thing.
Truly virtuous, truly noble endeavors, not necessarily like football games or, you know,
combat.
You know, if actual evil shows up and the good guys form a coherent team and overcome
it together, that's worthy perhaps of combat.
Bunch of little simulated make-warring shit, that's not worthy of combat, that's stupid
and lethal and kills every, like that fucks up the entire system of being human.
But I was just noticing the incredible coherence of this little, this pot of dogs, and the
guy is sewn on the script, right?
You wouldn't, I mean, if you were a woman, you might give him a couple of looks.
It's not that he's unattractive, he's incognito, right?
The beard, the sunglasses, the baseball cap, the denim, he looks like, you know, any guy.
I watched him walk those dogs right past a male goose that was within maybe four, four
and a half feet of the left side dogs, barely a reaction, slight, you know, slight sniffing
in that direction.
The coherence of the pack is extraordinary.
I'm nearly certain those dogs don't live together.
I'm gonna actually ask that guy a couple questions if I see him again.
Because it's an example of what happens when the registers of human authorization are coherently
organized and informing each other, right?
There's a feedback loop.
It's not the man is dictating what the dogs do.
It's a dog man, you know, symbiosis, right?
It's a dog man thing, a man dog thing, a sky man, you know, earth, moon, dog, man, sky,
all these things, right?
So neither one of them have their ordinary identities, but it's that the dogs fully authorize
the guy walking them.
And you know, you can argue, well, they're well-trained.
Okay, they're still doing it, right?
The coherence of that little pod is very shocking to me.
And I think it has something to say about the possibilities of our human creativity,
skillfulness, efficacy, under a coherent, I don't want to use the word regime, but it
is a registered, a structured register of authority where the layers are trustworthy,
right?
They're not fake.
They're not counterfeit.
They're real.
After that kind of situation, the best lights of our humanity don't merely wake up and come
to life.
They're capable of unifying and exceeding all previous historical inactions.
So there's this whole, there's like a portal here, behaviorally for human beings, that
we've seen taken over by tyrannies and, you know, bullshit again and again and again.
But we should recognize that underneath that seemingly dire history, there's a shining
jewel of something that we can actually achieve and travel with and for together into futures
where our humanity acquires truly meaningful expressions and roles and relationships toward
missions that matter.
Peace.
