Hello, everybody. Welcome.
I'm not sure what I'll speak about yet today.
I've had some unusual experiences lately.
And not all of them are nice.
Some of them are very troubling.
Many of us, many of the people I know,
not all of them are suffering.
And one of the things that seems to be happening
as if it were related to the spirit of the time.
The zeitgeist, meaning the character of this chunk of time
as we experience it.
However, it's important to understand that each one of us is in time uniquely
in the sense that if the character of time were to suddenly change
some of us would notice before others.
And some of us would be very late, so to speak, to notice.
They would notice it far later.
Maybe not so much at all for a long time.
And this is part of the weirdness and beauty of being human
is that we're each in time uniquely
even though we're in what seems to be a shared temporality.
It's technically the same time and day in the non-clock time sense.
But it's the same time and day for everyone on Earth.
Of course, it's a different time in Africa and Britain and Palestine and so on.
And it might be a different calendrical day because of how we have mapped time
under the surface of the Earth.
But what I mean is, in one sense it's the same moment for all of us
in a meaningful sense and in another sense
we're each in that moment and the flows inside those temporalities uniquely.
And so no two people have ever experienced really the same time or the same day
though there might be some exotic exceptions, maybe even a few ordinary exceptions.
But there's something in the spirit of the time,
something to do with
things that haven't been processed or have been buried or have been stewing,
things that need attention and haven't been getting attention.
These things are coming to the surface in our lives and minds for many people.
So it's as if there's a dredging up of material from our bodies and emotional selves,
from our hearts, unresolved aspects of our lives,
of our minds, of our souls, of our interiority, of our history.
As if these things are bubbling up to the surface now,
as if something in the spirit of the time
is drawing them to the surface.
And so many of us are experiencing kind of a storm inside us.
And some, many of us who are experiencing this, many of those people who are experiencing this,
are deeply confused and troubled
because they haven't been through this before or if they've been through it before,
it wasn't like it is now.
And so many of us are struggling.
As if something were circulating in the between of our humanity that is different from how it was just a few years ago.
Some of the flows in time have stopped. Some of them have reversed direction.
Some of them are leaping ahead when before they were flowing backwards.
And this is just one way of thinking about it, the time as water, the temporalities as waters.
And the topic of time is very deep. It's not the one I intend to pursue today,
though I have to say a little bit about it.
So, I've been noticing this happening around me,
and it's not the kind of thing the humans ordinarily talk about.
We don't really have a context where we explore the spirit of the time and what is changing
and what has frozen and what is leaping forward and what is going backwards now.
Yet we all have these kinds of senses.
And many of us not used to, actually we're sort of not allowed to use them.
They're both prohibited and counterfeited.
They're prohibited in the sense that the authorities say things like,
there's no way to see into time. Time doesn't have character.
Science certainly doesn't seem to think there's any character to temporalities yet.
And then we're also prohibited in the opposite way where instead of being authentically introduced
to our senses and unable to explore and develop them,
we're given strange spirit stories by what I could derisively refer to as Wu culture.
And then people adopt this kind of...
They adopt this language and this way of thinking,
and really what they just have is a new way of thinking.
And so that doesn't help our senses.
Or as we might have found a way to invite them into our experience
and to invite them into developmental expression,
instead what we get is kind of a sort of smorgasbord of little religious tidbits,
metaphysical ideas and things like this.
And those things are not senses.
Those are actually thrips.
They're the opposite of senses.
And it doesn't mean that all of the people who use this language
or these ideas have no sense or are senseless or are totally confused.
Some of them have senses and they link it to language,
rather than letting the thoughts and ideas pervade over the senses.
And so those people may be able to develop their senses
and might still speak in a similar way, or at least a somewhat similar way.
In general, the people who develop senses also develop much more nuance
than those who primarily just become vulnerable to the popular little religions and things.
But it's my strong sense that in the weather of the character of time on earth,
things have shifted dramatically and quickly.
And although this has happened partly during the pandemic,
I felt the process begin far before the pandemic,
at least two years before the pandemic in a significant way,
though it's always been on the horizon in a sense.
We've always been traveling toward this time until now that we're in it.
And the streams of temporality in their character and their effects on us are always there.
But we tend to only become really aware of them when something very dramatic happens,
that breaks through our thinking into our being.
And then we may not have the language or ideas that would allow us to understand
the new landscape or the transformations or maybe something of their meaning.
And so most of us, I think, are pretty helpless in this regard. We cannot see into time.
And yet, we cannot not respond to the transformations.
So we may have experiences that don't make sense or suddenly very different from our previous experience.
Experiences of our interiority or our mind or our bodies or all three, our souls, our dreaming, our sleep.
We may have experiences that are very difficult to understand, to bide with,
to work with intelligently and creatively with hope and faith.
And sometimes time changes in such a way that what our hope or faith was depending on disappears,
cannot be found. And we may feel lost or in agony.
We may have physical illness, injury. All kinds of things can happen, not only bad things.
But it's very difficult for us to know how to understand what's going on and how to respond.
A lot of us break down.
We may return to old habits that we'd gotten rid of in an attempt to navigate the storm.
Because what we were using to navigate in the storm no longer works.
And many of those that I know and some of those I love are really struggling right now.
They're really suffering and very confused, exhausted, frightened, angry, grandiose.
Some of those people think they're dying or they're going to die.
And of course we're all going to die, but that's different from having the felt sense of one's impending death.
And feeling that and thinking about that and having that occupy one's mind.
So just to repeat what I'd said before and perhaps I can articulate it a little better.
A number of things in the character of the flows of time have transformed over say the past five years very dramatically.
It's easy to see the transformations imposed by the pandemic on the surface of things.
It's very difficult to see the long-term ramifications of any of that.
Perhaps nearly impossible.
And so in some sense I think people are distracted, many people anyway are distracted.
Because they think that the feelings that they're having are the result of say the pandemic.
And some of them probably are, but not all of them.
There's something much deeper going on, a tree that the pandemic is just a branch of.
And it's very difficult for anyone to help us see into this.
We need our deep senses and we need them to be clear to us.
Rather than being distorted by our stories or narratives.
Now of course when something really dramatic changes in one's body or mind or relationships are in the world.
We would like to have some kind of explanation.
Certainly we'd like to know something like, well what is going on?
Why is it going on?
What is causing it?
And this is a natural desire.
But we should be careful about becoming too involved in those questions.
Because sometimes the nature of time requires that we just be very present in what is going on.
And when we begin to wonder, well what is going on?
What is this?
How did it happen?
Whose fault is it?
Who's doing this?
What's doing this?
When we have all these questions which again are entirely natural for us to have.
We become distracted.
We're no longer present.
And if the character of the time really required that we be deeply present.
Then these questions will actually take us away from what we're seeking.
Into ideas and narratives and concepts and beliefs and assertions and declarations and negations and so on.
And none of that is like being present.
That's all kind of head stuff.
Many extremely dramatic changes are going to be happening for us human beings in all of life on earth.
Over the next even brief span of time, say 10 years.
And many of them will be unexpected and some of them will be terrible.
In fact it's not unlikely that it will begin to look like the world is falling apart.
At least the human world is certainly going to fall apart because most of the bizarre games our collectives and institutions are playing are self-terminating games.
And those games have come much closer in our time to terminating themselves.
And by self-terminating I simply mean they destroy the context that they depend on for their existence as they proceed and iterate their processes.
And the humans have been doing something like this for a long long time.
But it only became extremely dangerous really in about the last 100 years.
And perhaps most particularly in the last 50.
So we have changed the world and we will thus be changed.
We meaning collective humanity which isn't really much of a we.
It's a schizoid nightmare of competing imperatives and nonsense and causes and explanations and theories and so on.
But the spirit of the time now seems to at least involve
the dredging up of all that has been buried and ignored.
An upheaval from the depths of our life histories and subconscious.
The personal histories and ideological histories.
Our emotions, our bodies from the depths.
Inside us the stuff will push itself to the surface.
And this will be a very difficult process to manage in our awareness for many of us.
And it's likely to become more difficult as the vast ecological and societal changes that are certainly coming begin to be expressed directly.
And the dredging up is it's important to be able to have this perspective.
Because it would help us to understand some of what's happening in our hearts and minds and relationships and in society and so on.
And you can see it in society very clearly old grudges, old dark histories that haven't been resolved, old processes, right?
The conflict between patriarchy and egalitarianism.
The conflict in Israel with Palestine.
The conflicts between NATO and its opposing factions.
All of these things.
But also the conflicts in my own history.
The emotional conflicts that weren't resolved.
The relational conflicts that weren't resolved.
All of these things.
They are bubbling up.
And health issues and issues of mental well-being and emotional well-being.
All of these things, bubbling up it seems.
And again it's unique for each person.
It's not the same for everyone.
Some people are doing relatively well or even they would say just fine.
But again people sense the transformation in temporality with different degrees of sensitivity and at different rates.
Some of them probably knew there was a catastrophic change coming and they might have known this 20, 30 years ago.
I was aware of it a long time ago.
But I wasn't so aware of it that I understood what was happening when it finally took place many years later.
Early awareness, if it's too early, doesn't necessarily get linked to what the awareness was about when that becomes expressed.
If it's really, if you had an insight 50 years ago and then suddenly everything changed.
In a way, you know, resembling your insight, you might be unprepared for that and even the fact that you'd seen it coming still wouldn't be enough to necessarily allow you to understand and relate with the situation when it finally takes place.
So some forms of very early sensing can be disorienting in this way.
They're prophetic in a sense.
But they're also disorienting because by the time the prophecy, by the time the prophetic vision comes into embodiment, one's own mind has changed so dramatically that one may not recognize it.
So two ones life, one's body, so on.
So I think we're in this kind of a storm and one of the features of the storm that has become apparent to me as I watch my friends and relations going through these upheavals that are very confusing and troubling.
And I can see the resemblance between them, right?
I can see that, oh, my friend A is having this problem.
My friend B is having a really similar problem.
My friend C is having two problems, one of which is really similar and one of which is a little different, right?
And I can see in a pattern in the between of all of the people and relationships I have.
And this pattern speaks of the representation of historical injuries, confusions, pain, mistreatment, injustice, all of these kinds of things.
And if we're aware of that in a gentle way, not in an explicit way, then it can help us keep our footing, so to speak, and maybe even restore hope, help us to path find, help us to help each other in the world, the living places, the creatures, everyone.
If we understand that something like this is going on, this dredging up of old darknesses, lost causes, injustices, traumas, dreams, visions, too.
Then we won't be quite as disoriented or confused as we struggle with our own minds, our own bodies, the relationships closest to us, our vocations, our homes, our life paths, our addictions, our loves, our arts.
We may be able to find a path even though the central light upon which we previously depended may have been eclipsed within us, and sometimes without too.
Our hearts are infinitely vast. They have room in them for all of the people, all of the situations, even for all of the troubles, all of the beautiful possibilities.
So this is a good time to be slow and gentle with ourselves, with each other, particularly with our thoughts.
You know, some of what's going on in the Cognizium, the extended network of human minds, there are deep transformations happening in the Cognizium, the human Cognizium right now.
And there are others happening in the living Cogniziums, or the Cognizia of Nature, to which the human Cognizium is linked inexorably, the same way my hand is linked to my body, or maybe even a more intimate way.
And as the Cognizium transforms, little pockets of beauty will form, and little pockets of poison will form.
One can sense, or I can sense actually, I can sense this happening, and it's part of why we see increasingly more and deeper factionation among the people, all the people.
Wherever we live, we may be seeing this, though it's happening differently in different places, and at different rates in different places, and people will experience it, each one of us uniquely.
But one of the disturbing trends I see is the catalyzation of what I'll refer to as war mind.
If I have suffered great injustice over long periods of time, someone has to pay, as if injustice were an accounting game, which it can never be, nor can justice be an accounting game.
But I see among a few of the people I know, thankfully, but enough to realize they are exemplars of changes in the Cognizium.
They are instances, examples of transformations in the Cognizium.
And some of my friends who are suffering more deeply than others, or who have experienced significant trauma, I can see the onset or the inflation of war mind-like aspects of their character and thought,
of their mental landscape, of their priorities.
And we can see something similar in the extended culture, at least here in the United States.
There have been blips and hints and catastrophes, tragedies, here and there, that are examples of war mind.
An extreme version of war mind is what happens when there's a mass shooting, right?
Somebody's war mind becomes so inflated and inflamed that they almost don't care.
It doesn't matter who's going to pay the price.
Everyone has to pay the price, and since they can't kill everyone, including themselves, they pick some cohort to attack.
Or they find a scapegoat, war mind is really good at finding a scapegoat, the one to blame for all the wrong in the world, all the wrong in my life, all the wrong in my history.
And thankfully, most of the people who develop war mind, they have a kind of inhibitive aspect of their awareness that keeps them from enacting it fully.
So that, for example, they don't go out and kill a bunch of people they have no connection with, who have nothing to do with their problems, really, at all.
But there are more limited forms of war mind where, for example, someone will become extremely angry and grandiose and begin attacking their nearby relations, emotionally, verbally, hopefully not physically, but sometimes that too.
And so this has become a much more serious problem now, I think, because of the transformations in the spirit of the time.
We're going to see a much greater prevalence of this kind of behavior on the local scale in terms of people we may know or love, or nearby to us, you know, in the places we live.
We may see expressions of this happening in various kinds, right?
Sometimes people attack property, sometimes people set fires, sometimes people go on rampages, sometimes they just attack the people that love them most.
Because when you're in war mind, when one is in this kind of consciousness or state of non-consciousness, state of anti-consciousness, one's own mind is essentially attacking itself.
So then it has to go look for something to blame, someone to blame, a reason why this is happening.
But when war mind becomes inflamed in us, war mind itself is a form of self-harming.
Though we may not have the clarity of consciousness or awareness, we may not have the skills, we may not have the ability to do anything else.
I certainly know one or two people whose minds are so severely compromised that they don't have the opportunity to introduce coherence into the storm in their waking mind.
It's too overwhelming. And since they can't introduce coherence, that mode of anti-consciousness just keeps building its own momentum.
And, you know, it needs to explode in some way, but most of us have the inhibitive aspect that keeps it from exploding.
So maybe it finds some direction to explode into and someone screams at their mother who ordinarily they're kind to or attacks a close friend, insulting them, yelling at them, so on.
Or, you know, people can hurt themselves and they can hurt other people too.
So this is a very troubling development, but it's one that I expect to become far more prevalent than it currently is.
It looks like the spirit of the time is continuing to develop in very troubling directions for most of us.
And those of us who can be present will retain some degree of flexibility.
We may be able to find or even make a path in the strange storms we're presently enmeshed with.
There's a lot to be said for being gentle and for being kind and for going slow, especially when things become tense.
There's something quite profound about that.
Quite healing.
And sometimes when I've been in conversation with someone who's in this state of mind, this kind of warm mind state,
my ordinary way of conversing doesn't really work anymore.
No matter what I do, they just keep attacking.
And when that's happening, I have to slow down and listen.
And maybe ask them what they need or hope for right now.
What would be helpful? What would feel nice? What would feel good right now in our conversation?
And I have to give up my desire to lead in the conversation or to advise or teach or throw some light on some aspect of the thing,
because if I do any of those things, they'll just attack me.
And those things are a natural part of my habits that I have to stop and really sincerely ask them what they need.
What do you need right now? What do you want in our conversation right now?
What are you feeling? Where are you feeling?
And just listen compassionately with respect, not judgment.
Because if I'm trying to advise or teach or shed light on something,
underneath that, there are warm mind senses that I'm critical of them.
If I weren't critical, why would I try to teach them something?
If I weren't critical, why would I try to shed light? Why would I think I can see where they cannot?
That's already criticism.
And warm mind is very sensitive to this, can be, isn't always.
It has peculiar features, it's certainly nothing like ordinary consciousness.
And often it's extremely grandiose.
It's me and my ideas and my beliefs and my history and my suffering and my trauma.
We are the most important thing in the universe.
Nothing even matters compared to this.
So we have to be really gentle and go slow if we're dealing with someone in that state of mind.
But even if people are just suffering and confused or angry or frustrated and they haven't really formed warm mind yet,
the same principles are useful.
Go slow, listen authentically with respect,
honor the person's feelings and perspectives, even if they seem completely outlandish or ridiculous.
Because sometimes we need to express outlandish or ridiculous fears or concerns or narratives.
And if every time we're trying to express them, someone's criticizing us or correcting us or trying to show us the light,
that just feels worse.
It's like more abuse.
So a slow and gentle process of listening and asking questions and not judging and reserving our own input
can be very useful because sometimes the stuff that's bubbling up,
it really just needs to be invited to bubble up.
It doesn't need to be fixed.
It doesn't need to be analyzed.
It just needs to bubble up.
And then if that's allowed to happen, that releases some of the pressure.
And of course there's some danger there too.
If we encourage the bubbling up too much, then people may subconsciously realize,
oh, if I'm really traumatized and angry, frustrated or upset, then I get attention,
but when I'm not, I don't, so then that becomes a drama engine.
So we have to be careful.
We have to walk the balanced line between supporting the bubbling up so that a release occurs
and celebrating the bubbling up in such a way that now the habit of drama gets first catalyzed
and then funded, right?
It's nourished.
So there's a fine line there.
Though the second thing isn't so much of a danger unless we're in long-term exchanges.
Nonetheless, it's part of what's going on.
We humans hitchhike on attention.
So we have to have some awareness when we're eliciting the attention of others
or giving our attention to others about what's getting funded.
What's getting proposed for the future of our relationship, for future conversations.
How are we navigating the space in which we potentiate future minds now in the moves we make together here?
Most of what we think of as our mind,
if we think of the aspect that thinks and knows the names of things and analyzes them and evaluates them,
that's a small aspect of our mind, but that aspect is extremely habit driven.
Traces form.
They get repeated.
Each time they're repeated, the habit deepens and devolves a bit or devolves a bit
depending on whether, as it deepens, we gain new degrees of liberty
and insight and creativity and understanding and awareness or we lose them.
That's the fundamental difference.
In many of our habits, those we acquire from culture particularly
are of the latter kind.
They cost us liberty every time we enact them
and sometimes they cost us new kinds of liberty every time we enact them,
which is much more catastrophic.
Warmind is this kind of process.
The person experiencing that has lost nearly all of their liberty
and this is what pressurizes warmind.
What charges it, what gives it its incredibly compelling aspect.
I guess warmind can be understood as an expression of the felt sense of being victimized
and we don't have to be personally victimized to feel victimized.
Many of us feel the tragedy of ecological collapse on earth.
We feel the social tragedies of extreme poverty and the injustice of incredible wealth.
We feel the ideological tragedies of religious or ethnic or gender persecutions.
Warmind can grab on to any injustice and add it to the pile
and it will pick the ones that fund it best, usually.
But once we become really focused on injustice, we're in danger.
Which doesn't mean we should leave injustice alone.
That means we should try to understand that our consciousness is delicate,
our awareness is delicate, and certain pursuits,
specific kinds of pursuits in awareness become toxic if not handled very gently and carefully.
So while I wouldn't recommend we ignore injustice,
warmind can use the offense that we take when we take offense.
This feeds warmind.
And to transform injustice, we don't need war, we need relation.
We need roles that are meaningful and humane, intelligent and creative.
We need nature.
We need deep contact with all the living beings and living places.
And we need generosity of spirit.
We need compassion.
And we also could use a little bit of understanding of how things got this screwed up
and why the humans in general and particularly the collectives and institutions
are so staggeringly confused, vicious, disembodied, abstract, skeletal, monstrous.
But those understandings don't come from taking offense.
Once we take offense, that's pretty much what we get.
Understanding of rage and frustration, helplessness, victimization, fundamental wrongness,
all these kinds of things.
So as in our cultures and societies, in our lives and relationships,
as this dredging up, as this upheaval proceeds,
we walk gently together, lovingly together, supportively together.
With those we love, with strangers, as if there are any,
with the living creatures and the living places, because everything is changing right now.
And it's a very intense transformation.
It's funny, you know, one of the things that I was troubled by when I began this conversation
and I honestly didn't know what I was going to speak about at all.
But now I've gained accidentally, just by walking through this topic,
I've gained some insight about a relatively troubling and very unusual experience that I had with an animal.
So perhaps we've all gotten lucky here today and seen something new
and something really helpful and medicinal.
Because of course, in times that are troubling, kind and gentle medicine can be very healing,
very nourishing, soothing, calming, sweet, beautiful, helpful.
It can restore our faith when we have none, it can bring us hope when we are hopeless.
Especially if we are embodying these, I don't want to call them principles,
it's not the right word, but this orientation, you know,
where we're capable of slowing down, looking deep, relaxing, listening, asking questions,
being gentle, giving love and care and kindness, wherever it might be needed.
Even perhaps to those we might usually think of as our enemies or we might be habituated
or scripted to think of as our enemies or competitors or, you know, the capital O, others.
The times have not become terribly dark yet, physically on earth.
I think that's probably coming very soon.
But in human interiority, they've been going dark for quite some time.
And many of the people are filled with pain and darkness and fear and hopelessness.
Depression, despair, anxiety, sleeplessness, broken dreaming, broken dreams, broken life paths, broken relationships, broken homes,
actual accidents, physical injuries, illnesses, all these things.
So now is a really powerful time to be able to bring a little bit of medicine
and not by having some religion about it, not by having some concept about it,
but by being authentically present and deeply sensitive, listening, caring, loving one another,
asking gentle questions, opening space together that had become extremely compressed and charged,
bleeding off some of that charge and compression together
in ways that are authentic and human, trustworthy and beautiful.
Thank you for joining me.
I look forward to learning together again very soon.
