Hello everybody. Welcome. I have a new recorder, but I haven't played with it yet because it's
so convenient to have my phone in my little purse that fits it perfectly and has all my
stuff, whatever that I need. Yeah, it's just so comfortable. Even if the sound quality
leaves something to be desired. I'm going to get actual mics and cams and things I think
pretty soon. Yeah, that's my hope. There's a principle
is so important that it needs no introduction. Lying my head off. There's a principle in
perception and cognition and particularly in evaluation that gets nearly no airplay.
It's fundamental to having a mind. Many of us will live our entire lives without ever noticing it.
You've heard perhaps the phrase in alchemical texts. That which is most valuable is the first
thing they dispose of. There's lots of answers to fill in that. One of the obvious ones is
a very precious one, a true answer, is behavioral time. But we do have the time when we can be
doing something, so to speak, in language. There's lots of other answers, memory. They dispose of
their memories and not just the relatively trivial memories of the days of our lives,
which we do most of us very much dispose of. There are people who have a dedic recollection in
this matter as if there was a picture in their mind of every moment of their life and of the time
and of the day and of the place and of those there and all of the little tags that both determine
where things go and what they go with and who they go with and where they go with, when they go with.
All these tags that are really profoundly useful if one has a mind like that or cares to develop the
mind of a nemenist. There's another kind of memory that gets disposed of and it's more primordial
than language. It's the memory of before. Before what? Well, before today, before our life, before
history, before the history of our place and before incarnation and before that. It's the
memory of origin. And we have in a sense such a thing and it can be restored to us as well. It's
not that we possess it. It's that we humans have an array of faculties made for relation with this
kind of memory. And it's this topic, this principle that religions orbit and perhaps
represent and evaluate and authorize all these things. And I'm not going to ask us to suddenly
become religious or freedom naturally understand what I mean by origin. But it's who we really are
and where we come from. Our first family, the home of homes, the place of places, the companions of
the unity. The many who are one and that more than a thing, more than a being from which they emerge.
But it's not my goal to talk about God or the ultimates, the ultimate, yeah, the ultimates
and that can be referred to in language. Rather, I want to talk about something very fucking mundane
that if we only understand it, we will know, we will have a compass. Our compass can prosper,
our compasses can prosper.
So, the concept of layers isn't hard for people to understand. We understand the idea of layers.
And, you know, if we admit any kind of spiritual or metaphysical thought, concern, etc., then it is as
if there is an above world to this one and perhaps a below world or an outer and an inner or, you
know, however you want to arrange the little model of layers. And we understand that, you know, in
English we use, we use the onion metaphor to exemplify this perspective, but rarely does the
onion metaphor actually give us access to the layers. We usually experience it in a relatively
facile way. We think, of course, an onion has layers, and that's the end of, you know, that's
the end of the mind's movements. Oh, it's layered, next kind of thing. But there's a thing between
the layers. There's something that connects the layers and that determines something related to
directionality. In the same sense that in cases of plane integer counting, one is less than two
and three is more than two. Now, these are not laws. These are axiomatic truths at the scale
of plane counting. If those numbers appear in an array or if they appear in a manifold, the fact
that one is less than one is more may still hold, but other features can be attached to them that
could make two far more important than, you know, three, even though it is less.
The numbers don't tell us what they mean and they don't tell us their value, except in a plane
counting sense. But what is it that lies between the numbers? What is it that connects the numbers
and leads up or directionally from, say, integers to real numbers or integers to prime numbers
or fractions to whole numbers and so forth? What is the between thing there?
It is not in the math and a KG person would say it's set theory. They wouldn't be entirely wrong,
nor would they be completely right. Not an unuseful noticing, but not what I'm getting at.
There's a feature of our experience that we use all the time.
We're using it right now to make meaning of the words I hear in tone. I am using it to form them.
And that principle
can be called different things and seen different ways,
but it is super sensible to the register of language where language is spoken
and where it is heard. It is superior in the sense that it is different
from the behavior of speaking, though it is involved, and it is different from the behavior
of listening and understanding, though it is also involved.
The concept of mathematics doesn't exist within the math.
Concepts that allow us to do mathematics or form and interpret language.
Oh, I see it. Look at the gopher, the little rat trying to come out.
It's not the concept that doesn't exist. The referent, the nominatum of the word math,
is never an equation. It is not numbers, it's not numeric, it's not writing, it's not written.
The nominatum of math
is understood to be a behavior in a process.
That's okay. That doesn't make it super spooky. That's fairly ordinary. There's lots of things
that they are not rendered physically or materially, yet they are, and they are by dint of our participation
in them. Now, it would be hard to argue in some ways that there's anything that isn't
extant by dint of our participation, because that's how we determine extancy.
It's sort of like defining the speed of light, or no, defining the meter
in terms of the speed of light,
which is a very trippy thing to do if you think about it carefully.
There is a thing. So, mathematical understanding
is not in the symbols, and there is no amount of looking at strings of words
that will allow you to understand them.
If you are not either A trained in some language,
and can transfer that knowledge to decoding language X, which you're being exposed to,
but even if you manage to decode the sounds of language X, how will you decode the meanings
without a key, without a codex? It's not the right word.
Really, what you need is a lexicon or a lexical seed that you could expand from in theory,
if you're lucky. It won't help you. You see the meaning, it's not in,
well, it's not entirely missing from the letters and the sounds,
but it is not there in such a way that could be discovered without a superposition over language.
There are human beings who live probably today somewhere, not too many of them,
who can probably determine the meanings of utterances to a fair degree of accuracy
without knowing the languages being spoken. Many people will jump up and down and claim
this is impossible. No, it fucking isn't. I've seen it done. I've had the experience of doing it to a degree.
What happens is there's a complex conjugated space in which the minds and perhaps the hearts
or spirits of the speakers are connecting to something like a shared lexicon.
Where is that shared lexicon? Well, it's not merely in those speakers. It's in the universe.
And so a third person who doesn't speak Vietnamese,
but is in this kind of, you know, usually we would call this a spiritual skill in
Christian tradition. It's called the gift of tongues. That doesn't mean to be able to babble
in ancient languages. It means to be able to understand babble.
So there's a feature of our being and the capacities of our consciousness
that might let us understand languages we do not speak. But the meaning is not in the words.
And it's not super interesting to go after the gift of tongues. What's super interesting is to
encounter the situation under which that arises naturally. That's interesting. Going after powers.
Well, you want to be a magician and press the girls. What's the, you know, and there's some degree of that in all of us.
It's fun to be authentically on stage or to play with our companions and draw each other to
into new skills and experiences by playing together.
Well, my right hemisphere just supplied an objection to that.
Holy crap. That's really interesting.
So what we want really is a way of seeing that helps us see the uplinks between
relative, what I'm going to call relatively lower order phenomena, physical phenomena, and their origins.
Whether or not the world is physically sort of inert and empty of intelligent agency
is not really very, is not important for me to concern myself with at the moment.
But once you put organisms there, the world becomes intelligent either way,
whether it was before or not, because the organisms transform the dimensionality
of the space rather dramatically in a number of ways.
So what is this principle? I want to talk about it.
It's what I would call uplink. And I'm emphasizing the upness
to mean something like more degrees of liberty, intelligence, awareness,
faculties, opportunities, action potentials, more types of agency available
if we go up the ladder. And also up the ladder is less deterministic. It's fuzzier causally.
Whereas down the ladder is more and more deterministic until, you know,
in quantum mechanics, there's a chance that the bullet fired at the hero's heart never gets there.
But you'd have to fire the gun, I don't know as many times as there are
atoms in the universe or something more, who knows. Of course, it's conceivable that it could happen
the first time. You just have to fire the gun a lot to increase the probability that it fails.
Which seems to be kind of what humans are doing in a ridiculous sort of way.
They're trying to pretend that if you just are spooky enough, spiritual enough,
the quantum mechanical like miracles will happen on the macro scale. I'm not sure they're entirely
wrong, but it's a very naive religion, in my view. And I'm happy to be educated by my
betters on this topic, for sure. I'd much rather be corrected than raise the flag of my speculative
veracity. So what is this thing? Well, it has a lot to do with your hand.
So, you know, people use fractals as sometimes as a model of nature or processes in nature.
But there seems to me to be something missing from the common perception of fractals and what
they are and represent. And to be frank, I'm not sure that what I've said is true because
I have no idea what other people make of fractals in their minds.
But if you make a pattern that is generally self-similar and has, say,
seven scales, seven registers of scale, seven orders. So let's say you make a maple leaf.
And then out of one of the branches of that leaf, you make a very similar shape,
but smaller. And you just continue doing that.
That seems to be what the idea of a fractal is commonly.
But there are two things that are missing. The first is the origin of the shape.
Probably three things that are missing. Oh, yeah, shit, there's a whole bunch of things missing.
The first is the origin of the shape. The second is the meaning of the shape
and the transformation of meaning at the next register.
You could attach other bubbles to this, other tags, the function of the shape,
the felt sense of the shape, the somatic ontology of the form,
and its transformation at the next register and so forth.
But there's even something weirder, which is the link between the registers.
And at the somewhere along that path, that route,
there's an uplink.
Okay, so each of the uplink features is both unifying and distinguishing.
I have to take a little break. Well, I'm not really that cold.
And I want to show you some examples that I'm going to use as a metaphor.
I think you'll find them very familiar, but perhaps also quite unfamiliar.
Reflect with me upon the structure of your hand.
And consider that most of the time, this is the primary part of yourself which you see.
You see your hand. The vast majority of your actions begin and end with your hand.
So much of what you are capable of doing depends on your hands.
Humans are capable of functioning to a limited degree without them.
I remember seeing a cashier at Safeway who had been born without hands.
And he was surprisingly adept with his appendages.
But it reminds one of a bird without wings or...
I mean, a fish without fins is really just a snake.
I thought he was very courageous and brilliant.
It is humbling to see uniquely embodied others, uniquely minded others, uniquely sold others.
And how they relate with the humans and the expectations and the representational registers
of human culture. It's often very inspiring.
And a lot of them, I don't know, they can speak for themselves, they don't need me.
We are each unique in some way.
In any case, these hand things, just be really clear about the importance of this.
It's very unlikely you would develop formal representational cognition without hands.
Because you have a really hard time forming an actual physical representation of anything.
All of the simple tools and simple machines that humans have made,
very unlikely we would have developed those without hands and particularly without opposable
thumbs. Our hands are quite anomalous in nature. There's nothing a lot like them.
Though there are creatures who have kind of similar situations, I'm thinking particularly of raccoons.
Which I hear the Finnish call wash bears.
And I heard they call turtles shield toads or something. Maybe it's tortoises, I don't know.
In any case, there's not much like a hand in nature. And so the primates have hand-like stuff,
of course, obviously. And mice.
Although the mice, the hand's not strong enough and even in the chimps and the apes and stuff,
it's very different from ours. And the orienting intelligence that it emerges from is very different.
The family histories of these two beings are both, it's the same thing, right? They're shared
and distinct. The same thing that causes them to be one thing is the thing that causes them to be
different things. And I would argue that it's this principle. It's this uplink.
And the uplink has this bivalent quality, but it has a multivalent quality. But it at least has
the bivalent quality of unifies and distinguishes. So if you look at your hand and you think,
there would be no writing. There would be no tools, no computers, no typing,
no recording, but in memory itself. Very few or no representations there would be without these
hands. These hands are very strange in what they portend about the transformation of the animals,
intelligences, faculties, cognition, behavior, activity, opportunity, threats, all these things.
So the hands are very powerful. So let's then take, I mean, say the hands are very powerful,
there is no power without it. And let's, you know, for the moment, just notice what I'm saying,
leave aside arguments about the feet and so forth. I do see my feet a little bit. I see the tops of
them a little bit. My hand I can see both sides of and I see it regularly. Every time I do something,
get a glass of water, open the door, draw, write, play the guitar, play piano, caress,
pluck, select, you know, eat, all these things. I see my hand, I see my hand, but I overlook it.
And in one sense, one answer to the alchemist's question is simply the hand. They dispose of the
importance of the member with which they enact their will. If you were a god and if you had an
angel, that angel would be your hand. It would be the enaction organ, right, the organ with which
you enact. Now, for humans, we can enact with speech and walking. We enact with our feet.
We can enact combat with our whole body. We enact cognition, we think with our brains,
and that's probably a pretty reasonable idea because though there's another register to us
that isn't our brains, at least while we're conscious and partly while we're unconscious,
our brains seem involved in producing or not not in transducing
something fundamental that becomes the possibility of stable
beingness. I won't just say selfness because that sounds so separate. Wow, a bunch of S's there.
Now, you got to see that what separates your pinky from you doesn't exist.
Your pinky is not separate from you and yet it is distinct. If it were separate from you,
even if you could control it remotely, it would not be very useful. It would be far less useful
if all of the fingers or appendages of your hand were separated and if they were, if that was all
you had was these five separated appendages, you might be able to like move a pebble into a slot
if you could find one with great effort, right, using all five of them,
wriggling around like little strangely segmented fleshy worms, terrifying idea.
My point is compared to what you get where they are unified at the palm,
the fingers are meaningless. They have no, you got nothing, right? You won't get writing out of that,
you won't get complex machines, not that you need either of those things necessarily.
Octopuses and whales do just fine without them and would prefer that humans didn't have them
because life would be a lot better for most creatures on earth if humans didn't have hands,
if humans didn't have hands, but we do. So you can see that something, your fingers are distinct,
they are distinguished from the rest of you, but they are also just you
and the uplink position for those fingers is the palm. Of course, if you had a hand and that was
all you had, you could crawl around like that 1960s film, The Hand, with
I cannot recall his name at the moment, it'll come to me. You know, you could crawl around and
terrorize other beings and stuff a little bit by rearing up and wiggling your fingers
like thing in the atoms family.
This is a great idea. The hand is actually a full on being and I think it probably is
and that's the really weird thing about being human is, you know, the hand is a being,
it's also an aspect of my being.
Now, the hand has a kind of a form, right? It's got like what I'll call four working members
each with one segment, what I'll call one thinking member with two segments, those join at the palm
and also the hand is first one thing. You can say actually, no, it's not one thing,
it's a segment, fine, but in this way of counting, I'm starting at the hand.
So it's got four working members each with three segments, one thinking member with two segments
and it connects to the rest of its origin via a joint we call the wrist.
That is the physical implementation of the principle of uplink, that wrist.
It is the between of the hand and unimaginable dimensions of being like that contain things
like eyes and a mouth and a tongue. There's an instance of the fractal I was talking about earlier.
Yeah, that's pretty crazy. It just sucks at the same damn thing. All right.
So at the scale of the wrist, that leads upscale to the body
and what you will find is a similar array of principles
of formal forms there, a similar kind of account
like your hand your body has for what we might call working members. Each of them has three
primary segments, they end in star shapes, upstairs those are hands, downstairs those are feet.
The body is a similar star shape, first one, one unifying body like the palm of the hand.
So that's two, four working members, that's six, one thinking member, that's seven
and we can count the joints and do all kinds of other games, but
from the hand to the body there's a wrist and that's the uplink to
more degrees of liberty, more kinds of intelligence, more kinds of sensing.
And also what we could think of for the hand is something like mission control.
Okay, I'm not just a hand floating in space, I'm connected to a body
and I'm not just a body floating in space, I'm a body with hands.
Now where things get strange is
the body has a wrist and this is what religion is actually about.
Upscale from the hand, your body reiterates the structure but very uniquely.
Very differently, many more degrees of intelligence and liberty,
potential for action and agency at the scale of the body than at the scale of the hand.
Similarly though one might say your body has an invisible wrist and this is uplink.
This is what religion and philosophy and science are actually about whether or not they
like to say so or have this metaphor.
We are the hand of something
and it's something transcendental
and from the body even one register up is so profoundly beautiful that the direct
unmitigated experience of it would probably be lethal unless we were very small and unafraid
and unattached to our descriptions and narratives and nonsense about materialism and so forth.
In the same way that across the wrist from your hand you find
a whole new array of senses and not one or two or four.
You will have the sense of place, of temporality, of 19 different emotions with 30 shadings each,
hunger, satiety, temperature, coherence, de-coherence,
recognition, not recognition, all these things right?
Knowledge, language, adoration, memory, all these things
and it is similar upscale from your body.
There is a there is a thing that your body is the slightly lopsided representation of.
There is a nominatum right that which is pointed to
by concepts and language and that nominatum is transcendent and transcendental and it doesn't die
and it gets associated with bodies
and I'm not asking you to believe that what I'm saying is true.
I'm saying something weirder than that.
How to put it?
The status of what I am saying is beyond the true and the false.
It is a matter of fundamental verity that admits no such duality.
Maybe I shall have to rephrase that let's see.
I think long ago
it was effectively impossible to be unaware of this principle
and or to be disconnected from it in our lives, in our spirit.
I can't be sure of this but it seems very likely to me.
There's a lot of evidence for it and I suppose or suspect
that religions arose in the wake of its disappearance
in the incredible impoverishments that followed
and it isn't as though
you know at the register above your body there are different
there are different kinds of places it's not the same
well in a way it kind of is except the wrist
you know the hand wrist body x right hand dash wrist dash body dash x
that x is complex it's not one thing right so like what we think of as astral travel
is you know para-exy and what we think of as dreaming is para-exy and visions are para-exy
but lots of other things are para-exy and it turns out that everything has an xy like quality
to it right everything has an uplinky feature that under the right
hmm under the right conditions becomes first suggested then apparent
then validated then explosive right because there is a potential
to reverse the gravity of the downlink right which is what what holds us in
thrall most of the time this is why our species is profoundly lost at the collective level
is because the uplink is not working there what we are uplinked to there
is demons right it's corporations and machines and war and fucking commodity and tear down the
biosphere to feed a billion restaurants per day so that people with commodities can have exotic
experiences which bore them to tears and all that produce entitlement of various kinds
all kinds of things are going on not just that but you can see that there's a problem at the group
layer we don't uplink together we don't form the hand we don't reforge the wrist
um at the in fact we tell each other and pretend like each of the fingers is separate or maybe
even each of the joints is a god something like this very confusing but we can do the other thing
we're capable of it we're made for it we're born for it we have the faculties for it
and whenever we begin to do it this is what is meant in the bible
i think when it says if two or more of you shall gather in my name what okay that that
little phrase in my name is code for in the spirit of the memory of origin that which all beings
recognize as progen progenia the original progenia
so there's a direction and the direction is always towards intimacy
even if conflict or combat ensue you will see intimacy the the weird idea of combat is actually
the renegotiation of intimacy in a highly temporally compressed circumstance yeah uh third you know
two to four events per second instead of three to five events per minute right you see the
transformation of the temporality there i also notice with things like singing or music
they both these transform time dramatically by introducing new dimensions to it right and
decorating those dimensions yeah with uh if well done with soulful spirited kind of an amnoetic
content meaning uh unforgettable content that causes various modes of
unforgettable and also simulates uplink the stuff that simulates uplink
see the part of us that's really representational is terrified of uplink well it can be terrified
of uplink and if if the registers above that what you're used to were suddenly to appear in
consciousness you'd be very disoriented it would be helpful to have someone with you
who was wise gentle creative playful curious
because what you know when the monster appears in the dream the monster is a doorway to other
universes it might as well be a ufo it just looks like a monster um in most cases in many cases
anyway if you simply relate with it a bit more intelligently it turns into the possibility
of lucidity right and in dreaming lucidity might as well be a ufo you can become anything you can
go anywhere you can become multiple things probably um there is no limit so
you know uplink
we are trained to believe so it's certainly physically real that we need oxygen to survive
uh human body might under certain conditions be capable of surviving on a very small amount of
oxygen but it's going to have to replenish that resource in some way um similarly with water and
food uh of the common resources oxygen is has the shortest temporality right we can you might hold
you might learn to hold your breath for seven minutes maybe
you're gonna have a really hard time getting past three three and a half
but you might learn to hold your breath that long i don't know how long a body can go without
water but some bodies appear to be able to go without water for a very long time
and some bodies appear to be able to go without food for a very long time and
you might understand oxygen water and food as the physicalizations of uplink
that which comes from beyond you
um by the existence of which you survive in this form
on this world right water has to come at fairly regular intervals food has to come at
fairly regular intervals if you're a guru or you're an extremely unusual person
and please don't try this at home um you might be able to go with water without water for a long
time possibly essentially there there are records of people not having any that lived um there are
lots of anomalous things that look like they look a little bit like the seeming necessity
of ingesting food has been substituted or has been transformed into it is as if a nectar comes
to my body from an invisible place that nectar is sweet and delicious and beautiful by that
nectar my body survives something like this again please don't try it these aren't the kinds of
things you want to chase if they happen to naturally arise as the result of unusual diligence in
meditation or spiritual pursuit or perhaps you know internal martial arts or something
again don't pay too much attention keep keep on with your practice
but there are instances of this humans don't die as easily as we are told
under some conditions especially if there's a good reason for them to be alive right if they're
excited about being alive and they're really enjoying their existence they can last quite
a while without food um any cohort will have both sides of the curve right if you get 10,000
people together some of them will die I don't know 10 weeks in maybe these are wild guesses
I doubt few of them would die sooner than that without food if they were drinking water
or maybe some six months I guess it could be hypoglycemic
maybe those people could die very quickly but there would be some who would last a long time
especially if they weren't frightened or in despair or watching their companions die of starvation so
forth fasting is very weird it's not a regular behavior
I have run long experiments with it
and didn't really seem to suffer ill effects
until what week I don't know memory fails but it was way beyond four
and I was very young
uplink okay there's there's another feature of uplink is memory and so
the science is the arts literature religion philosophy um poetics all these things are uplink
they're uplink to the the what I call the human cognizium these are this is the structured
uh network of minds over time and it leaves representational footprints in books and methods
and processes
that we can take up mathematics biology chemistry
sewing drawing painting dancing acting singing playing instruments raising children
educating each other and children remembering that everybody's children around here
there's just one kind of thing around here child these are all representations of uplink
as is our technology unfortunately for us
your companion there's a register above you where you will certainly encounter
companioning intelligences that are not human and never having encountered them
you are very vulnerable I speak from experience on this because you don't know what to do
it's so exciting and probably you will feel exaltation and all kinds of feelings
and especially feelings of like filial piety family piety family of origin
enchantment with this the overwhelming sense of ah these are my people this is my these are
where I come from these are the people to whom I belong and they are not people
some of them might be people I mean I guess it just depends on how you think about a person but
from the experience however limited that I've had
their resemblance to a person is relatively minimal
and I think you know it's tragic that most of us will it seems tragic to me that most
of us will live and die without having an experience like this or we will have a very
brief experience of it and be so compelled and puzzled that we might spend the rest
of our life trying to understand it and we might you know it doesn't always go well
um some people die in the
within the aura of that situation some people are reborn but don't really
they fail to fledge right in the same way that birds
young bird it's like a fledging moment to encounter such intelligences
and some of some of the people fail to fledge they don't make it it's very dangerous
it's not under well understood at all in in modern cultures I mean
happening to someone they're going to think they're having a religious experience because
they probably are
in fact
they're having an experience for which there is no reasonable category in many cases
and the the the valence of the experience the sort of way it breaks down into forms or types or
kinds of experience potential threat danger so forth
will be different for each person and will even change
within the person over time
um and I'm not necessarily trying to encourage my listeners to chase this
if if it's your intent to chase uplink the actual stuff not what the humans are selling
you representations of you had better have a strong self-discipline very sober mind
though a little bit of playfulness won't hurt you
and be very resistant to both paranoia which is the sudden splitting the sudden systematic
splitting of stimuli into into linked chains of meaning both and amnoetic and prophetic
which leads to the felt sense of being
being observed having scrutinized being surveilled
you must be resistant to both paranoia and in a sense you should probably be
resistant to extreme bouts of enthusiasm or exaltation and certainly you must
soberly resist megalomania because you will find yourself in terrain beyond most of the humans
you've ever known not necessarily beyond those you have read but in the beyond of what you've
seen of those you have read or known so you're it's sort of like you you will have the feeling if
you if you successfully uh swim back up the waterfall the way the salmon do to the to that
little stream where your parents laid the eggs so to speak using the salmon metaphor from the
ocean if you get back up that waterfall to that original stream of being you're going to see
how little of you is actually human and but maybe you'll also fall in love again with it
because it's very beautiful the limitations of our humanity turn out to be very profound in their
in their potential
for otherwise impossible extrapolation
liberation recollection all these you know discovery awareness so forth
it's funny um as a guy it's relatively difficult not to want to look at women joggers
many of them are quite attractive they're in good shape a lot of them are pretty
but there's a weird sort of economy because if you look at the jogger first of all probably she
doesn't really want to be looked at by most males and this is such a complex mess of a problem
and by the way there's some uplink stuff orbiting this issue as well
but if you don't if I anyway if I don't look at the jogger
then she's relatively safe in looking at me
me relatively she may have no desire to look at me though she must have clocked me
before we got into close proximity as most humans do I mean if they're observant anyway they will
so it's very peculiar I can be seen or I can see
the other weird thing about uplink is at least I don't know how it is for women they
can speak for themselves but for males it's very difficult to give up one's sovereignty control
seeming dominance and so forth so that they think they're going to win something or they may try to
and if you've ever surfed
you would know that you don't dominate a 60-foot wave in fact your chance of dominating the ocean
is zero you forge an alliance with it that's mutually astonishing and then you know miracles
may happen disasters will also ensue
the plus position right the hand plus the wrist represents a plus sign to the body then there's
a plus sign to the many forms of uplink and registers above that or beyond it or above and
within it or you know however you want to think about it it's fine it's not just up is good
in is good a lot but whatever is beyond the body if you follow your second wrist
it's not going to be dominated you can forget about that you're not going to own it
and if you become megalomaniacal you're likely to invoke nemesis bad things will come
and if you're parent like unfortunately that state is somewhat magically magnetic
but it also makes projections of magnetism so madness is a real possibility if
you're not coherent and when I say sober I don't just mean you don't do drugs I mean sober
in the sense of
you don't get too excited about things that could be understood to be bad and you don't get too
excited about things that could be understood to be good you observe you learn you process you
observe you process you stay coherent it's a lot like navigating a storm that will smash you into a
wall if you move wrong right it's super dangerous again not so much for children children explore
there are a variety of places in nature where uplink is near at hand
and some of them are going to sound a little weird but tough luck
um any reasonable spider web and a spider that's a really good direct representation
and portal to uplink monsters in dreams or you know even bad bad humans in bad dreams
that's a door a frank mantis is a good door any tree great door an old tree
that's well beloved maybe better
bodies of water the light on the water particularly the light of dawn or the setting sun
you
dawn and dusk the whole world turns into a portal at those times
you
when people speak of the benefits of altruism
uplink is involved
the memory of communal identity
oneness all the peoples all the different kinds of people in all the times all through history
all the people one family one family all the beings one family you will see it eventually
it's not the kind of thing it's helpful to think about it before you see it perhaps
but when you see it you won't be able to help it you'll just it's like being restructured
in an awareness you will see the unity
um
first right which has precedence the unity or the distinction well in language and
thinking distinction a lot of the time everywhere else in reality unity has precedence
act in the in the best interests of the unity you will be surprised how
how magically and smoothly your experience transforms into intelligence and memory and play
the great secrets of the wise old people always have to do with this they've they've
opened up the waterfall right they probably got up not the just the first one they might
have got up two or three different ones a few times in their life and maybe they're dwelling there
right and they're only partly down here in the hand of the body
it's very profound to encounter this
yes we are the hands of something and if our second wrists were physical i think it would
probably have more mass than the universe because it's infinite intimacy with every
we'd have to make a thread to every molecule every atom every quark every electron
so
that's a wonderful question
so
let's turn around say bye to the duckies
there's fishes and animals and ducks here i think the duck is really just trying to evade
the the mate guarding behavior of the nails
there are certain things that if you don't believe in them you will not see them
and i'm a fan of rationality and pragmatic thought
but if my life were limited to that it would be very confusing
and i think cause for despair for me you you know your mileage may vary you may find that um
orientation in cognition and meat suits is better accomplished by a kind of mathematical
precision or
for example neither believing in nor speculating about anything
that you can't find a solid rigorous foundation for in thought okay
uh but there's there's a like if you don't
if you don't believe in music you you're not going to just suddenly spontaneously
start composing concertos right you have to go toward the music somehow and then
you must be kind of dissatisfied with merely spectating
it's similar with dancing right i remember i couldn't really dance at all
and i went to a concert the police played in sacramento synchronicity tour
and you know there were thousands of people dancing and naturally i just began to dance
and i realized like oh this is how you do it you will not suddenly experience dancing if you
don't go towards it there are a lot of things that people um that's more common with men
they think they know what's going on or they know what's what in in the world
and they haven't experienced a thousand of it and they're they're dominating
their ontological tyrants right they're like um they know everything
and i've tasted that myself
you know
it's very clear to me the incredible damn it they keep cutting down trees here
in the botanical gardens but there's nothing wrong with these trees
this is fucked
so wrong
really bad humans
they're in the grip of the opposite of uplink and all the other problems once you have arborists
they have to justify their continued pay so they they pick out some trees to assassinate
yearly or you know maybe five years or something so absurd
so you can see that this this principle you'll find it everywhere in nature
the branches of the tree lead to a trunk
under the end of the ground in the darkness is the roots
the branches of our body lead to our trunk
in the darkness inside our shoes
you know there are our roots our feet the things that we
walk along on the ground on
it's very surprising some of the correspondences that one can see
from leaf to branch the stem is wrist
and branches themselves are wrist like because they connect
populations of leaves to the trunk you see and the structure of damn near everything is like this
in in some layers right especially the closer you get to the physical layer
the little children are uplink
the octopuses are uplink the whales the dolphins the otters they are all these beings
but there are special beings that are I don't know how to put it
the elevator skips floors in these ones right it goes like straight to floor 1000 from
you know floor 10
reflect on these matters because your own ability to understand my language is based
on the uplink from words to lexicons to semantic maps to memories of spoken utterances
your understanding itself is uplink to more than what you're understanding
for now I'll wrap up so grateful to have this time together may your lives and ways be beautiful
see y'all soon peace for now
