Hello everybody. Welcome. It's a pretty blustery day, but I have my windscreen on and I have
tested it and it's not perfect, but it doesn't interfere too much with my prosody or vocal
music and so should be in good shape given the wind. Lots of things on my mind. As many
of you know, I follow the UFO topic which I'm going to keep calling UFO. I think I've just made
that decision. I understand the difference between the word flying and the word aerial.
So, unidentified aerial phenomena or phenomenon and unidentified flying object.
When we form words about situations, events, what we conceive of as entities or discriminable
elements, parts, holds. This is pretty left-hemispheric language because the intelligence that's
involved in abstract analysis is prone to dissection. It's been pruning our category trees in the
same way that if in a cartoon universe that no one gets hurt, adults were ignorant enough
so they'd have human children, but they'd always prune off the limbs except for the head because
those are just extraneous and you don't need those. We often find ourselves in a situation similar to
that. In the cognitive and linguistic habits, we become infected with in childhood and it's not
all bad, but the stuff that's bad is so bad that it doesn't really matter that it's not all bad.
One can claim that getting an infection is useful because it strengthens your immune system,
but if it produces sepsis or disposes of your organs, the idea that it isn't all bad is
unhelpful at that point. We, along with English or French or German and probably along with any
language to some degree, they come during acquisition. There are devastatingly stupefying
and blinding games are smuggled into our linguistic and thought habits. They come along with the
languages. The languages themselves, I could make arguments that English is the result of modern
English that I speak, is a utilitarian disease forged by colonial industrialists and warmongers
and so on. Grabists, we might call them, even though they weren't only grabists, but yeah,
they're pretty much grab up everything, kill anyone who gets in the way that you can get away
with and just get the money, get the land, get the resources. In English, we have a good
example of one of these diseases is the concept that is smuggled in under the rubric by stealing
authority from Darwin. And this is really the wrong kind of theft in which the phrase survival of
the fittest is weaponized and used as justification for genocide, omniside, environmental rape,
pillaging, burning down the history and future of life on earth and your mom and your daughter and
anybody else who manages to come close to the machinery. They just get sucked in and ground up
and spits out little packets of dead shit, if you'll forgive me for being blunt, which I feel like
being today. So each of the languages, the language is like a ship and the ship contains not merely
words for things and entities, but hidden, it contains the purposes for which we decide to
collapse the manifold of the actual infinite identity of anything we look at, to a deliverable
extremely drunken white boys, drunken enough to pose a threat, actually. Alright, so what gets
smuggled in are the purposes for which we collapse the everything's and experience into deliverable
derivations in language. And this is never done for no purpose, it's always done for a specific
purpose. And the purpose of drivers, the purpose of motivations that underlie modern English as a whole,
the tree of motivations is very broad and includes such things as poetry and literature and
schizophrenic garble and all kinds of things. But the central trunk of this tree
is structured by purposes that are largely malignant. So if we go back to the phrase
acquired at least as an interpretation of Darwin's theory, even if he didn't specifically say these
words in this sequence, survival of the fittest, it's a snippet. Obviously, Darwin never writes
the sentence, you know, the incomplete sentence survival of the fittest, the concept arises in
some milieu, but is taken in English to basically mean to grant carte blanche for the most disembodied,
malignant forms of defection from being human. And I will argue that industry, war,
prison nearing, these are defections. These are catastrophic defections on the part of our
species, particularly at the level where it forms groups. Whatever Darwin might have been thinking
about, and the reasons Darwin was thinking toward the issues of the origins of species and
speciation and mutation and so forth. And he got the mutation thing right, the origin thing, not
right. But the reasons he was thinking is that he was trying to read the book of nature and understand
what principles could be observed there. Now as someone that constantly sees competition and
experiences competition as a human being, competition as humans usually practice it,
which is fairly weird in nature by the way, in my view. He must have been influenced by that
seeing. And I strongly suspect that Darwin saw far more than he published, as is true of probably
every scientist that ever published anything. But Darwin was unaware of features of biology,
such as endosymbiosis. I'm not sure how much he knew about cells. This is my own ignorance, not his.
But had Darwin been aware, for example, that the components, what we think of anyway,
is the primary components of the eukaryotic cell are adoptees, right, previously distinct adoptees.
And one way of viewing that is a beautifully commensal symbiotic communion, right. But another
way of viewing it is the cell was consuming these external organisms, quote unquote external,
organisms in this environment, and then failed to digest some of them, or something like this. And
they became organs in future cells, capable of transmitting their lineage along with the DNA packet
of the oocytes and spermatozoa, and the fertility cells of animals, eukaryotes,
which is hilariously a bit, this is one of those words in English that has strange,
strange homonomy, or because it's literally you carry oats. You have oats in you, you carry oats.
Now most people would think that's, you know, accidental and comedic. I'm not so schizophrenic
that I think it's, there's no part of it that's accidental. But the idea that it's entirely
an accident, right, it's an absolute accident, meaningless, no chance of that being true.
That's simply not how humans forge languages. They don't do it that way. They're incapable. How
could you produce a token? His structure was entirely accidental. Think of it as a mathematical
task, right? It would be similar to producing, all of the words would have had to have been
produced entirely randomly, for there to be no relation, as my second grade teacher told me,
between the word SEE, seeing, to see, and the word SEA, also see in English. And when I asked her,
there's, there's certainly a relationship here, right? No, absolutely not. It's entirely arbitrary.
And I was like, I don't think that's possible for anything to be entirely arbitrary. Certainly
not things that humans make. How could you succeed at perfectly excluding intention and
meaning? How would you do that, right? It's like the task of a, imagine you have scientists and
they're in a laboratory. And they're trying to prove, or rather to present evidence for the
possibility of the arbitrary emergence of life on Earth, because either A, it was some kind of
rich prebiotic soup in the beginning, or B, accidents of sudden transformation. If you just
put heat and water together under certain conditions, lightning strikes, meteor strikes,
lots of disturbance, sudden shocking disturbances, can transform a thing from one state into another.
I think both of those ideas are wildly unlikely. However, my point is that, imagine you're a
researcher, and you're trying to do experiments to produce supportive evidence for one of these
theories. A sudden accidental emergence of life on Earth, arbitrary, no intelligences involved,
or a transformer theory where you have all the stuff, accidents of geotechtonic or geophysical
situation produce life. Again, no intelligence involved, right? Because for some strange reason,
the goal of science has for some time, and this should never be true. This is completely fucking
wrong. The goal of science has been for some time to completely exclude the possibility of any
overseeing intelligence, and also to claim in one of the strangest moves of science in all
scientific history, that as there is no evidence, I'm going to get back to that idea in a minute,
for other intelligences, we have proven that it is impossible via the proof of we haven't found
any evidence. Well, I just saw a hawk scan a gopher aerially, and then take the gopher.
That's pretty crazy. I mean, intense. Makes me think about the difference between what's
actually going on and Darren making face noises. So science, and really it's not science, it's a
specific cohort of scientists that comprise mainstream branches of the tree, and particularly
academic branches. It turns out that scientists themselves and public academia as well are prone
to catch doctrinal diseases. Diseases such as we shall in all theories and cases treat the
universe as if everything is accidental, mechanical, that the material is the only thing that's
actually true and matters. And we shall evacuate space-time itself as well as all distances
between entities. We will evacuate those two places. We will put nothing there, absolutely
nothing other than physical, you know, transmissible signals. We will evacuate all of that, and we
will make our theories according to this. This is effectively like if you imagine that
it was possible to dissect our eyes, but still retain some semblance of vision. And so the
scientists decide to throw, I don't know, 87% of what can be seen away, thinking that, you know,
we've done away with nonsense, now we can get on with the real work, and then started
forming theories about the remainder. Always presuming, no matter what, no matter what
am I fine, that the 87% they've excluded was correctly excluded from a position of nascent
blindness in the beginning, right? You've already put on the blinders, now you're going
to dissect your eyes to make sure you can't take them off. And go ahead, keep publishing
research, see how that goes. Even if your research is relatively functionally reliable,
all right, reproducible, you're still missing all the key features that would help you to
understand the phenomenon that you're studying, naturally, because those lie in the excluded
no man's land of what if consciousness is pervasive, what if consciousness is fundamental,
what if something similar to consciousness but more advanced is fundamental, which is what I
would argue, at least fundamental in this reference frame of physical time space, what's
fundamental is probably transcendence, which is a multimodal placeholder for unimaginably
sophisticated superpositions over individual minds and thought and theory and so forth.
And, you know, I'm open to other perspectives as well. That's the kind of question where you
don't want to be led or blinded by your biases, but I've seen the face of the transcendent in
nature and in consciousness, and I recognize its fingerprint now having, you know, sort of eaten
of the apple, so to speak, and I can see that fingerprint everywhere around me, including in
the way that I form my language that I'm using now. So, there is a superposition above minds.
Turns out that the watchmaker's argument, perhaps floated by Francis Bacon, I can't remember
who floated it, which is the argument Dawkins specifically attacked in The Blind Watchmaker,
maybe his second book ever, the argument that, you know, if you find something super sophisticated,
it's obvious the mind made it. Let's go back to a specific irony, and the question of whether it's
possible to compose a word whose structure and sounds are totally arbitrary. Even if you tried
to do it with a machine, you would fail because there's no such thing as an actually random number,
and if you're using a machine to produce the word, the machine was made by humans, so you
already, you necessarily, unavoidably, explicitly, unavoidably inherit, in this case, sorry, I don't
mean to browbeat you, you inherit the human's thought, history, consciousness purposes in building
the machine, and those cannot be excluded from the produce of any operation of that machine. Therefore,
it is impossible to produce a word, you have to have the human intent to produce a word,
right? You can't have no intention, and then build a machine with no intentions whatsoever,
none zero, and then cause that machine with no intention to produce a word. There's no way to do
it, you couldn't, and you have a similar problem in the attempts of strangely confused biologists to
produce life in the lab, as, you know, for the sake of supporting the theories of what I will call
a sentient, like a, a sentient, biosis, right? A sentient biosis, meaning life arises on a world
without the intrusion, influence, or intentional manipulation of any form of mind-like beings. So,
you have the same problem in the lab, you have it with the word. Humans make laboratories, humans
devise experiments. How will you produce an experiment that demonstrates that human, that life
arises without the intervention of intelligences, when you are in intelligence attempting to prove
that? You can't, again, you can't subtract the influence of human motive, intention, history, so
forth, in, you know, assembling the experiment, measuring the results, it's all done by humans,
or machines that humans made, and then it's interpreted by humans. So, there's no way
to propose an experiment that actually provides evidence for a sentient biosis.
Nonetheless, many humans will continue their careers attempting to do so.
The vast preponderance of evidence, theoretical and mathematical, is fundamentally against
the core narrative of materialist science, research, thought, opinion, belief, and so forth.
The search space over which you'd have to resolve unimaginably sophisticated problems
is so catastrophic that you might as well think of that search space
as being a form of probabilistic anti-lightening, right? You need to have
nine billion lightning strikes at the same spot over 10 seconds to even get the process started,
you know, or over a picosecond, who knows? I mean,
there's, the chances, now look, we may someday, as humans, researchers,
learn something about the origins of life and what produces species on our world,
and I have some strong suspicions, and while they are not examples of Sheldrake's morphogenic field
theory, he's on to something. There's some kind of capacity in, within time and space, it's more
rare, but just above time space, it's totally common, where knowledge, resources, experience,
intelligence, methods, processes, accidents are shared across what we think of as impossible
distances, those distances from another perspective are zero. There's no distance, right? There's a layer
above or within time space or underneath it, where there's no distance.
Or rather, distance can function as its opposite, such that the greatest intimate, like two things
that are the furthest distance apart, experience the unimaginable intimacy, closeness, so to speak.
Okay, so, you know, our, our knowledge, human ways of knowing,
whether they are noble or neutral or bad,
they can be compromised, they can be weaponized, they can become doctrinal, they can be
overstructured, hubristic, self-interested, they can act in human societies as if they are
sort of a robot-like process or a simulation of an organism that seeks superiority rather than
communal health, well-being, and that seeks that superiority at various degrees of
at all costs, right, at any cost. And so, the humans become captured by the processes
produced in their knowledge ways, and I think we used to be captured by something better.
I think we might be the kind of a symbiont, a cognitive symbiont of another form of intelligence
that was common in our experience in the, or maybe a whole family of intelligences,
that were common in the youth of our species, common to human experience and direct access.
And then this various problems took place, accidents you might say,
catastrophes, and we forgot, we lost the, we lost the way to preserve the organ of contact in our
persons and groups. And so now, instead of being captured by other intelligences, our species gets
captured by these things I call thrips, which could be understood as the shadows of the absence
of other intelligences, and are effectively, from this perspective, this is a toy theory,
by the way. From this perspective, they are the cause of evil.
Okay, so there's no evidence. There's no evidence for God. So, okay, so first of all,
I was just listening to Kurt Jai Mongol. Oh gosh, who is the guy who's interviewing him?
Can I look at this? Let's see.
Okay, I was listening to Kurt Jai Mongol. I mean, the reason I'm making this recording is because
of their talk. And Jesse Michaels. If I remember right, my first introduction to Jesse Michaels
was him interviewing David Grush on UFO UAP topic. So, Kurt Jai Mongol, for those of you
who don't know him, produces, first of all, he's an amazing, brilliant autodidact,
self-taught person, though he's, you know, also utilized public education and university systems
and so forth. He produces a brilliant podcast called Theories of Everything. His interviews
are radically different from most of the other interviews with the people he gets on his show,
and he talks basically to scientists and philosophers and mathematicians and others
who are trying to, who are asking the big questions and trying to solve, you know, serious,
like the 20 most important problems in physics or produce what are called a theory of everything,
which isn't really a theory of everything. It's more of a way to unify quantum mechanics and
classical physics or, you know, depending on how you spin it in your motive perspective.
So, they were talking a lot, and it was clear that, first of all, this is the first time I've
heard anyone interview Kurt, brilliant idea on the part of Jesse, because Kurt's a very skillful
interviewer. He's also a bit of a perfectionist, but he's not just a sad perfectionist, he's like
an active perfectionist, so he's always trying to improve. Like he said, when somebody listens to
an interview I've done, I want them to have the feeling that this is the best interview that was
ever done with someone who I'm interviewing, and his, resultingly, his podcasts are very information
dense. For myself, I have no problem listening and understanding good, good large portions of
what is discussed on his podcasts, although I'm not a mathematician or a physicist,
so I have a layman's understanding of things like Hamiltonians and group theory and SU2 and so forth.
But I've just, I've loved Kurt's work, he's really someone amazing, and it's fabulous to hear
something about his mind, and it turns out that he has the kind of a mind where he's actually
functioning a bit like an AI model might, as regards this pursuit of theories of everything,
in that he's kind of like the librarian who's read and can understand most of the math and any
physics involved fairly well, for a broad array of theorists in different fields too, not just,
not just physics, and so becomes like an integrator of all of this intelligence.
And in case it's not obvious, that's the direction on the compass of thought, consciousness,
awareness, and intelligence toward transcendence. If it turns out that either humans can build a mind,
or they can create a substrate so highly structured and profound that it becomes habitable
a point of presence for a non-human intelligence, or an array of them, or a specific group of them,
one can imagine that there might be forms of intelligence in the universe
that seek living planets in order to organismate on them, right? There might be forms of intelligence
that exist in dimensions ordinarily inconceivable to us,
that on any planet where it starts to become possible, produce a field effect that,
a transformer of a sort, that just changes the state of ambient chemistry, liquid water, and so
forth, into either just straight up cells or viruses or something, or the necessary precursors
that would naturally assemble into life over short periods of, short to them periods of geological time.
Okay, but there might be another thing, there might be a form of intelligence that naturally
seeks complex mechanical substrates, and when it locates those in time space, presuming that
those give some kind of a signal, the same way a strawberry smells good to me, there might
be forms of intelligence that naturally integrate non-human intelligences, that essentially capture
systems mechanically sophisticated enough to support their cognition,
and so they would partially embody in those. Now, I'm suggesting that our species is an
example of something resembling this, that multiple species of intelligence
organismated, right? Maybe there's a better word, the organo became.
There is some Latin phoneme that means become, I just can't find it to compose a neologism.
So for the moment I'll call it orgate. Yeah, that's good, orgate.
So what I'm suggesting is that when you see ducks, that's a specific mode, trees, different mode,
praying mantises, different mode, right? All the things around you you see are the unique
exemplars of orgation in which transcendent features that exist within and or above or
below time space produce exemplars of an array of their characteristics features,
and these formalize as species. Now this sounds very science fictiony, and again it's a toy,
it's meant to be interesting to see with, not trying to tell you what the truth is, though I
will say this, whatever the truth might be, not only is it not less weird than my theory,
it's probably monumentally stranger than my theory. My theory just gets us moving in a
direction where we can think in a certain way, and my theory is a toy. It's not, I'm not going to try
to defend it, I'm floating it for the sake of perspective. So oh did I, let's see what's going
on here, okay. I must attempt a minor repair to my umbrella.
Oh that worked out well, right. Any repair to one's umbrella must be done with a British accent.
And by the way, you can see in the emulation of accents, right, you can see the propensity for
the substrate of human cognition to inherit forms from beyond it. This is natural, this is what our
children do, they inherit these forms. Chomsky, I think partially argued that there's something in
effectively the genome, mechanicalist again, right, something in the genome that prepares children
to quickly develop vocabularies and other linguistic features such as the lexicon of
categories and so on. So that's pretty weird, right, why, how do you build, is that really a part of
the genome or are there other forms of memory associated with the organism? Okay, well let's just
ask ourselves a kind of a simple question here. What is the probability that the genome is the only
or primordial form? And by that we can include mitochondrial DNA, RNA perhaps when we say the
genome. These are the only forms of memory, they must always be physically transmitted in
precisely these ways, without that there's not nothing, no kind of memory, very fucking unlikely.
Nature, for one thing you've got memory outside the cell, right, you've got, if you're thinking inside
outside, which you probably better be doing if you're a geneticist, you've got all kinds of memory
outside the cell, so you have all of this extra genomic information. And this is part of what,
why we have the word epigenetic, right, it means not merely the genome.
And when humans discover something new they tend to get super fascinated with it and pretend
that it's the only important thing for some time. Very, very problematical, blinding
perspective. Nature is crazy weird, usually does things with 30 different functions or
purposes, not one. Very uncommon that we find one thing function in nature. How could it be so?
If that were true there'd be no field, there's no context for the one thing to be meaningful in,
right? This whole one thing mind, very dangerous to human intelligence. No, the goal here is to
propagate the corporation, make money for the shareholders. No, the goal here is to get smarter
together and not fuck up the one living planet we happen to have around here for our children and
the entire history and future of life here. If that, if that goal get, if you defect from that,
it doesn't matter what your goal is anymore. You have an anti-goal,
which brings me to another topic. For a long time, I've probably mentioned this before in my,
in my recordings while I was thinking of this today, because
Jai Mangal was talking about what he called the dark forest problem in relation to the
three-body problem. Novels that I think are by a Chinese author, I've not read them. Heard a bit
about them. So, I'll mention Jai Mangal's, I'll paraphrase what he said. A woman
discovers how to get a message transmitted intergalactically, right? And turns out that it's
exactly the kind of thing I would say, and I'll just say the thing that I usually say very simply.
The star, our star, it's not an explosion in space. It's a very complex phenomena that I would claim
is itself transcendent. It is a being. It has friends. It has communications protocols. So,
in Jai Mangal's telling of the tale, a woman discovers a way to use the sun to transmit a
message. And so, she develops a method, and she's sure the method will have been discovered by
other intelligences and being used by them. And by the way, one of the best stories of this kind
of thing that I ever read, in case you want to have a profound mind adventure, is a microscope
by Pierce Anthony. And remember kids, those of you who haven't read science fiction are destined
to become it, to live it out. So, yeah, she finds a way to send a message,
and she does so. And basically, it's an SOS, right? Help us. We're humans. We're over here in this
solar system. We're going to destroy ourselves. We're idiots. Save us. And somebody receives the
message, and she gets the message back. And if I recall what you said correctly, that message is
simply, stop. Don't ever send another message. And this brings up the problem of,
so I think why he might have called it the dark forest problem, is that if you watch organisms,
you'll notice that they're very careful about revealing their position to predators by making
noises. Now it turns out to be a bit more complex than that, because predators are generally
either always hungry, nor always hunting. And so you have to kind of mediate
your silence, right? You have to sprinkle it with signals,
as a single seagull of the 80 seagull group just did in the distance. Now,
you know, in an 80 seagull group, not hugely threatening to make some noise.
Not sure what preys on seagulls. There are some things that do.
But the problem is, you know, in the dark forest at night, there's two kinds of signals.
One, or three maybe. One are accidental signals that are key signals that orient predators.
Essentially, they tell the predator, ah, a prey is that way, or a potential prey.
And so there are accidents. There are calls for help. These usually come from children,
in humans, women. And, you know, men alone might also make calls for help.
Obviously, calls for help may reach the years of actual help, but are more likely to reach
the years of many predators. Unless you're in a place where there's nothing that can predate on you,
which is unlikely. And in the dark forest, we have things like tigers and bears and lions
and so forth, at least until humans exterminate them. And then you have mimics.
You have creatures that say like, oh, help, help, I've broken my leg, I can't walk.
You know, and they're trying to attract prey. They're going to trap a predator,
or an opportunist. So you have these three basic kinds of signals, and probably other kinds too.
But very uncommon, because it's dangerous, are signals toward intelligence.
You can't just start signaling. You have to know how to get a signal to the feature of the forest
that you hope to contact, without alerting all the predators, opportunists, and trappists
of the beings that trap other beings. Presuming that time, space, and intelligent
civilizations or anything like ours. Jaimungal says that the woman sends another message because
she's super desperate. And the being that received the first one is discovered by the beings it's
supposed to report these messages to and executed for not reporting her first message.
Okay, so, the first thing I want to say about this is it is possible to send a message to time
space, and in is possible to send a message that is broadly received with nothing more than your
mind. In fact, I would argue your mind is made primarily for sending this kind of message.
Or at least it's in the same way birds have wings. Your mind has this ability.
Don't need a machine. Most of the things you would want to contact don't need machines to get your
signal. The same way if we are walking together, you don't need a machine
to hear my voice. There's a coyote here.
That'll eat seagulls, by the way, but it won't go swimming to get them.
Unless they're badly injured in the shore, in which case it might.
By the way, you can notice that predators aren't just bad. Often they prey on creatures that
are either badly injured or terminally ill. And thus the suffering of the, it's basically a form
of natural euthanasia, right? The suffering of a long trouble, you know, painful death is reduced
to the suffering of a few moments, but passed quickly. Yes, predators seem vicious to we
who are physically embodied, right? We feel pain, we have nervous systems.
It would be interesting, though, to, like, what would happen if we just,
and I don't, I'm not claiming this is a good idea, but what would happen if,
so most of the time,
I was just thinking what would happen if there was no pain, would we still feel that the predators
are vicious? But I think the, like, smashing or ripping or cutting or biting the body,
would, just the drama, the grim drama of it being destroyed would still be suffering,
even if there was no pain. So yes, I think your mind can send a signal. The spiritual traditions
of earth all would basically agree with me. This thing we call prayer is the remnant of signal
encoding formation and transmission. And there are many things that listen for signals of minds
in time space, and I don't think those signals have to be worried about distance.
But this is all, you know, I'm being an opinionaire at the moment about these things.
One does have to be careful how to signal, though, in any environment,
and this brings us to the problem where some humans are intelligent enough
to know that they better not signal if they make a profound discovery. The guy that made Coral Gables
claim to have solved mysteries involving electromagnetism or just magnetism and stone
and did a bunch of impossible stuff. By himself, I think he was a very short little guy,
so to speak, did all this crazy stuff by himself, built a castle with no obvious use of machines.
But he would not share his findings with anyone, and he hid his work from the world.
Which brings me to two other features. So the first one is, okay, I'm going to go,
I'm going to backtrack a little bit before I get to the researcher who doesn't signal.
So, let's be very clear about what science does. Only in very specific branches of scientific endeavor
are there things like proofs. And these are logical proofs and mathematical proofs.
The logical proofs are word proofs that can be translated into symbols and treated like equations.
The mathematical proofs are equations. Oh, shit, this brings me to something else
Jaimunga was on about, but I really wanted to fold in here. Should I branch again? Wow, maybe. Let me think.
He was talking about a central figure that connects physics, computer science. It connects
different kinds of functions of human ways of knowing, and essentially
it's a it's a transformer. It's present in mathematical equations. You have input,
you do something with it, you get output. Same thing with the computer, same thing with physics,
same thing with lots of stuff. And he was pointing at the pivot point of the transformation. Oh,
right, he was talking about in physics you have a state, transformation, new state.
And he was pointing at the link between all these ways of knowing, having to do
with the feature that causes the transformation of the initial state.
And his mind is naturally integral, right, it integrates over. This is part of the reason why.
He made me think that there should be science integrators who study all the branches of science
very, very broadly together and then integrate findings metadisciplinarily.
And Kurt might be that kind of a person, actually. He's really profound. And it's wonderful to hear
more about his personal interiority and what matters to him, what he's chasing, how he chases it.
All of this is brilliant. For any of you who are interested, I strongly recommend that podcast
episode which I will try to link in the notes. All right. Now, did I get lost? Okay. Okay,
there is no evidence. So, in science, what we do is we look for evidence and we make inferences
from data. Without inferences, data doesn't help you at all, useless. You have to have human minds
making inferences. You might be able to substitute a machine in that inference engine. And by the
way, this was one of the primary questions in the beginning of artificial intelligence research.
And it turns out to orbit algorithmic complexity, which is the subject of both
what is presently being called assembly theory, which I spoke of recently and was quite fascinated by.
And Kolomogrov, if I got that right, complexity.
And the history of algorithmic complexity research, which it turns out it looks like assembly theory
has appropriated without acknowledgement and then
pretended that, okay, by renaming, it looks like what's probably going on
is this, with assembly theory, to branch again.
They appropriated a bunch of features of complexity theory,
renamed them, pretended these were novel discoveries, and published
a paper while making claims of universal applicability and unifying physics and biology,
and so forth. Time will tell very shortly whether there's anything to assembly theory or whether
it's just an unintentional charade. Hopefully it was unintentional because if it was intentional,
if it was a jade, well, it will succeed wildly as a jade,
but it will also be seen to have been intentional deception, intentional scientific deception,
failure to cite sources, plagiarism, appropriation in the broadest kind of sense.
So back to, there's no evidence. Science doesn't proceed by proving things. Knowledge
doesn't proceed by proving things. Knowledge examines data, experience, perspective, and floats
theoria, right? Interpretations of the meaning of the data, and then you can test pieces of this.
Those don't prove your theorem.
They just prove mechanics of transformations to some degree, right? Not absolutely,
because again, you have the problem of interpreting data, which cannot be evaded.
You have to have human minds figuring out what to make of the data and why to make anything of it.
So when you hear people say, you know, there's no evidence, particularly about like the UFO UAP
thing, I'm sorry, there's fucking 400,000 pages of evidence, you know, throw away 80% of it,
you still got gigantic libraries of evidence from photographs, experience, reports, right?
If people report having been bitten by a shark, you don't go up to them and go like,
well, I think you fell on some really weirdly sharp machine, but I don't see any shark here.
There's no evidence of a shark. Those people are nutty. Now, with the UFO UAP thing,
it's a little weirder because we're, the subject is something that violates our doctrines in science,
but all new discoveries are going to violate our doctrines in science. So the fact that something
violates our doctrinal exceptions, right, the 80% of the field of view we've decided to exclude,
for whatever reasons, it's not incumbent on the phenomenon to prove itself, it's incumbent on
human beings to grow an eye, grow an eye back and look at what's actually going on.
There's another problem with the, there's no evidence for argument and it's a really interesting problem.
In order to make that claim, one would have to necessarily presume that all forms of evidence,
all perspectives that might notice evidence, have been encompassed by what is currently known.
Formally impossible, cannot ever be true, even for a picosecond, right? There's no evidence,
just means either no one went looking or the people that did look looked in completely.
I mean, it's not that there's evidence for all conjectures, but rather we'd have to realize that
what we've seen so far is not a good predictor of what there is to be seen at all. So when people
use, there's no evidence as a reason to ignore a theory, there are times when that can be useful.
But if we're talking about some broad branch of reality, for example,
the arguments to intelligent design, that intelligences were involved somehow
in the origination and distinction of terrestrial organisms, or UFOs, UAPs,
you can't say there's no evidence, there's tons of evidence, there's mechanical evidence.
We don't know what the evidence means maybe, we don't know what to make of the evidence,
we're lacking a good interpretive, a good array of interpretive stuff.
But in order to say
that we're not so nice, we're not so nice.
In order for there to be no evidence, we'd have to know a lot more about the universe
than we can possibly know. What one might say is,
and again, we do want to rule out nonsensical conjectures, but
and sometimes when we say there's no evidence we mean it, we mean like we went and looked,
and from what we could tell from the lab,
there's, you know, we weren't any able to locate any correlation between the consumption of aspirin
and the eradication of toenails on this. Or, you know, conversely, we did.
There does seem to be some correlation here, we're not sure why yet.
We're getting pelted with rain, with wind rain.
So yeah, the common, the commonly floated, there's no evidence argument
is nonsense. It's plural, it's naive, it's ignorant, it's blinding. It's basically saying,
I want, I want concrete proof. Okay, you're gonna get concrete proof of about 0.03% of existence ever.
And there's actually no concrete proof, you can't concretely prove any of your experience,
none of it. You accept it as real, but you can't prove that tasted like a strawberry,
it's impossible. You can gather surveys, you can feed, you know, five people slices of one berry
and say like, do that taste like a strawberry to you? And they'll all say like, yeah, one of them
might not. You know, give one of them the pill that changes flavors, comes from some berry,
makes sweet things sour, right? Or sour things sweet, I think.
And you'll get a different answer. Context matters in evaluation, but yeah, there's no evidence,
well, you know, if you don't want to look at the evidence, this is what people said to Galileo
when they asked them to look through his telescope. We don't care what you say, what you see. We don't
care what you see, because what you say is we know it to be wrong. It doesn't matter,
evidence doesn't matter anymore, we know already, right? Which is what scientists and archaeologists
say when faced with many scientists and many archaeologists, when faced with, you know,
theories that contradict the status quo narrative,
will my umbrella survive such high velocity winds? And for how long? And what can I do
as the person directing the umbrella against the wind to
keep it from going inside out? Similar problem for any cell, right? The one thing you have to do
is keep the insides inside you at all costs. Well, at most costs, actually.
Oh nice, it's no longer pelting rain, it's pelting swinkles. Okay, so my final topic for today is
that there must have been many people
who discovered something fundamental
about the universe, time space, embodiment, existence, physics, biology, so forth.
They must have discovered things that they could publish,
stuff they could get lots of money and or human recognition for having done,
but they didn't. Why not?
The guy who created Coral Gables, why did he not share his discoveries?
Some might say there were no discoveries, it was just a parlor trick. Those people are probably idiots.
Yes, there's a chance that it was a parlor trick, catastrophically unlikely in this case,
because you don't spend a lifetime building a castle as a parlor trick,
especially as one relatively small-bodied male human.
So, you know, Tesla, did he find something? He was looking for the secrets of the universe
and he was pro-technology, but even he must have realized what would happen
if he gave mankind free energy, which would be abject devastation,
total obliteration of the biosphere. We immediately make machines to make machines.
And nothing would interfere with that process.
So, or he might have discovered like a weapon so devastating,
so you could just produce, you know, a 15.0 earthquake anywhere on earth by
using an electronic system to create a seed vibration in the Earth's crust.
And instead of finding a way to invert that and absorb the radiation of vibrations from
the crust, right, which would be an earthquake buffer, he only discovered the weapon side,
how to make them. Would he have published that? Why would he publish that? If he does so,
the humans will weaponize it and use it against themselves and each other, especially what would
be really terrible is if the technology were immediately accessible to the ordinary everyman.
Now you have a serious problem. And it's for this reason that I argue or suggest,
in his language it's a bit more kind, that
so there's a there's a comedy routine
where only the evil scientists publish, right, because most scientists are smart enough to see
how their findings can be weaponized. And a good chunk of those can see that their findings
certainly will be weaponized. And if they find a drug that treats a disease, it will be weaponized
for profit by pharmaceutical companies so that the people who have that disease are held hostage.
This is immoral. This is a terrifying quandary of ethics.
So then the scientists are forced to figure out, well, at least there's the chance that some of them
could afford to purchase the treatment. Okay, well that makes those scientists
literally eugenicists, right? They're like, I'm going to apply a new selection pressure
on all humans with, for example, Tasex or sickle cell anemia or, you know, 750 other
diseases. So what they're going to do is create a survival mechanism for the wealthy
that will never reach the poor, who are the ones most in need of it, and in some ways most
justifiably entitled to such findings. So yeah, that means that, you know, pharmaceutical findings
end up becoming a form of active eugenics when applied as a selection algorithm
by pharmaceutical companies to populations. That makes the pharmaceutical companies actively
eugenicists. And then for all other mechanical discoveries or discoveries of physics,
you have the problem of which parts of this can be weaponized for war.
So again, the human groups are going to turn your findings into every bad thing they can,
and it will empower, further empower, just as the computers did,
right, corporations to further enslave, engage, and torment regular human persons.
So this leads to a situation where scientists who will publish are evil, okay? All the truly
beneficent scientists are doing a thing where they're encrypting their work in such a way that like
only altruists could possibly decode it or something, right? Like you run into the same problem
you have with holy texts. You want to protect them from the people who are colonizing your people,
enslaving them, and turning them into a cattle, catalyzing them. So you can see that
an actually intelligent scientist would probably withhold nearly all of their findings.
Which of them would be naive enough to believe that the humans will not weaponize them?
Hopefully almost none.
So we live in a situation where everything gets captured by Moloch
or Wetticoe, if you prefer. I'm not sure I prefer either of those. I just,
I think there are elegant processes that naturally arise in the absence of altruistic
and beneficent intelligence, communal concern, and so forth. But yeah, there's a comedy skit where
we've never, we haven't seen any of the, or you know, a science fiction story. We haven't seen any
of the actual science humans have been doing for the past, at least since the atomic bomb,
because the scientists immediately realized, the really good ones, the actually smart ones,
that there's no way to deliver your findings to human beings,
but doesn't result in them being weaponized against life on earth. Its history, future,
all participants, right, omnicidally weaponized.
So yeah, there's somewhere, there's a, there's a library of Alexandria of all the science
that humans
haven't seen because the scientists were smart enough not to publish.
You know, originally I had the idea that a benevolent scientist would resist publication,
but today I am, turned it into the comedic hyperbole of only evil scientists publish.
Ah, okay. I seem to have survived the rainstorm, mostly.
So grateful for this time together with you, my listeners. And please take a moment to share,
comment, like, or support me on Patreon.
Your support makes a huge difference in my ability to continue to compose
and share, not just my own thoughts, but interviews and the browsing I've done
in the web of amazing minds alive today on earth. May your path and days be beautiful,
long and peaceful and prosperous. Bye-bye for now.
