Hello everybody. Welcome. I'm out for a walk in Lead Until Christmas. And I have
lots of different things on my mind. I'm not sure which I'll pursue. The cold has
come in the north. My friend Ryan reports that the weather is extremely cold there.
I think negative 30 Celsius. And many of the geese and water birds and other birds
are profoundly afflicted with bird flu and they are dying in a very grim
situation. This is in Lethbridge, Alberta. Around here in Stockton, California, where
there is the San Joaquin Delta in the valley, the water birds have been gathering in vast
numbers, perhaps in preparation for migration, but also in a behavior that looks to me ceremonial.
Thousands of birds, wings flying in from far, far away, wheeling over a specific area,
and singing together throughout the night. The song actually reaches our house here.
The wintertime is very hard on everyone, but particularly in places where it is really
cold. It's modestly cold here. The birds here seem healthy. I haven't seen any significant
evidence of bird death, but I also don't have access to the Thule Islands where they are
gathering and wheeling. And there are many different kinds of birds together, ducks and
geese, perhaps swans, egrets. It's quite an incredible sight. It seems a celebration and
it seems ceremonial and deeply magical. In a way, Christmas is a celebration of things
that we have long forgotten. And for many of us, it's a very difficult time. Those of
us who are struggling or in poverty, who are sick or injured, those of us who've lost family
members and loved ones, the winter is hard, and the spirit and the people at this time is,
depending on where you look and what you're looking for, you can find whatever you're seeking,
of course, but it's a dark time. A dark time in the world. A difficult time for the humans. And
many of the people I know are experiencing confusion and despair and poverty, feel trapped in
their situations with, you know, no direction out, no direction toward safety and comfort and
security and hope. You know, for four years now, nearly five, since about the end of 2018,
there's been a dramatic sea change in dimensions of our existence that are ordinarily invisible to
us. Many of them we don't have words about. And it can be very difficult to look and see and
understand situations that we have no models for, no language of. I've been reading a few
different books on bar fields, saving the appearances. I've been rereading that. Ernst
Casaray's Language and Myth, which I strongly recommend. And it's the kind of book that you
is a very small book. It's like 50 pages, maybe, but it's the kind of thing you want to read five
or six times to really let what he's talking about sink in. And one of the things he's talking about
is the way that myths are linked to language and how language is linked and originates in
non-ordinary experience. And all of how many of the human populations over time have associated
the word with the divine and certainly not merely the Christians in John. And how the words have
changed as our activities have changed and how the root origin words from which our languages
descend all have this sort of nativity in sacred experience, ceremonial experience,
experiences of being overcome with emotion and wonder and awe and terror and fear by the
circumstances of our everyday lives or by a specific encounter. And these books are a comfort to me.
I hunger, as I think many of my listeners do, presuming that I mean I only have a few listeners,
but for deep conversation and insight and learning to see better together and trying to understand
the origins of the strange situations we find ourselves in as moderns. And of course many of
my other videos pursue topics along these lines. I think very deeply and curiously about time,
and it occurred to me having been observing the changes in the world and in the humans and in
our minds and in our dreaming and our health over the past four or five years. It's very clear that
there was an event of some kind that began sometime in 2018 and came to a crest around the end of it
that year. And I've spoken of this before. And the detective in me has kind of been on the case,
trying to understand and learn what is changing, what has changed, why is it changing. And I think
at this point it's a bit of a perfect storm where the humans have reached a boundary condition
in nature on earth. And they're doing things that seem to make sense in the 1800s or early 1900s
when the earth was quite resilient. And it was impossible for us to put a really serious dent
in planetary scale situations. But that changed with the advent of industrialization. And so I
think there's a bit of a perfect storm. I think the humans have made a number of very staggering
fundamental mistakes. And I think they happen to be making them at exactly the wrong time.
At a time when there is great danger for life on earth in general and particularly for our
species. And that may just be, certainly it's a result of our activities. But there's also other
features of the situation that are not ordinarily apparent to us. One of the ideas that I think is
important is that time is, in some ways, resembles a river. And a river isn't always the same, the
fact that it's always made of water. Even that is not entirely true. Rivers sometimes dry up or become
streams. And I think all of life on earth hitchhikes on situations in the relationship between the
earth and the sun, the earth and the moon. But even the river of time in space, when we look at the
sky, we imagine, oh, I mean, we're scripted to imagine, oh, that's just empty space up there.
You could imagine the same thing of water in a river. Oh, it's just water. But it's never just
water. There are features underneath the water that are important if you're on a boat. Or if you're
swimming, there are creatures in the water. There are life systems there, you know, symbiotic communion.
And so there's more than just water. And I think time space is like this. The sun is pulling, in a sense, the
planets along with it through the water of time space. And that water has different character in
different places. And that character is crucially important to living beings. They can sense it.
The animals and plants in their astonishing diversity and profound, physicalized intelligences
form a harmony together on earth. And that harmony supports all of life. It's not altruistic in the way
that humans think of altruism, but it's meta altruistic in that that dance of life literally
creates the possibility of human minds. And so, too, without this dance, there's no possibility of altruism.
So it occurred to me that because as I said in previous videos, I think there's a problem with time,
something has fundamentally changed with time. And in the dance of life on earth, there are fundamental
temporal elements. The sun and the moon are very obvious in this way. But there are many, many
different elements, lots of which we don't even have language about. So it's very difficult for us to
imagine them without a cue, without a cue of some kind. But one of the things that's been going on,
and I've seen evidence of this in nature, and certainly profound evidence in the humans,
is desynchronization, right? The harmonies of life are breaking up. And surely part of that is due
to the catastrophic damage to the biological hyper structures of earth, the symbiotic hyper
structures. But it also occurred to me, and I think it's an interesting idea,
because I've heard many of the people that I know, a number of them anyway,
almost all of them have reported that they sense something's wrong in general. And many of them
have no sophisticated language with which to assess or evaluate what they're feeling
and experiencing. But one of the ideas that I thought I still think is quite profound is that
alongside whatever the humans are doing and have done, I think our mechanical behavior
fucks up time. Machines, all of the creatures on earth are modes of living space time,
in my view. As if space time produces something like rain and the rain on living planets at least
becomes organisms. It's producing, in other words, space time is to organisms as clouds
are to rain. This is what I'm trying to point at. And so when we look at the organismal
libraries of earth, we see the faces of space time. We see the character of time space. It's nature.
As if the forms of organisms on earth were hidden in the seeming emptiness of space.
But I don't think space is empty. I think that fundamental idea is mistaken and backwards.
And so the humans have made billions of inert objects and billions of machines.
And it seems to me that machines are not only not like the nature of space time,
or if they are like it, they're like it in a way that's very dangerous to organisms.
In fact, lethal. In a sense, we could understand that machines make dead time.
If the relationship between two organisms produces forms of temporality,
the opposite of relation in the machine damages temporality and acts as a desynchronizing force
in the life field and in the temporalities upon which the life fields rely.
So it occurred to me that if the sun is traveling through time space and if time space is anything
like a river, it may be that the solar system has entered
a... imagine that the river was flowing in the direction that the sun is going
and all of life is happily hitchhiking on that flow.
But then we enter in time space together in the solar system,
a situation where the water is pooling and is still. And now many of our senses that we've
depended on for eons don't work because they were founded on... they were hitchhiking on that flow,
that forward flow of the river the sun is traveling in, or the stream that the sun is traveling in.
And so I think we may... our solar system may have
entered into a pooling place in time space. If we imagine that the sun is like a boat in
a river and it's carrying the earth and the other planets with it and the organisms on earth
are sensing the currents in the river and hitchhiking on those currents to
help them to synchronize and symbios together to learn and grow and continue the life process.
And then suddenly the sun enters a dead spot in the river, right, where there's no current.
And for a moment or a time, perhaps an epoch,
all of the life systems of earth transform in face of this crisis of not being able to draft on
the flow in time and space. And it... it's as if you can imagine if our compasses all suddenly
became screwy. Each different compass shows a different direction to north, whereas we were
all able to synchronize before the compasses went mat. And I think something similar has happened in
the nature of temporality over the past few years and is continuing. And it may be that we've not
merely entered a still point in the river, which would be very terrifying. Think that for thousands
of years or tens of thousands of years, the water has always been flowing forward toward the future.
And then suddenly it slows down. There are little whirlpools and it becomes still.
And we can't see ahead. We don't know if it will ever return to something like the flow again.
It might even be worse than that. It might be that we've entered a position that isn't merely still,
but it is swirling, right? Like a vortex or whirlpool, even if it's doing so very gently.
A disturbance of this degree would certainly be catastrophic for the humans and the organisms
after tens of thousands of years of drafting together on the flow of time and in time space
toward the future. It could also be that the flow has reversed or is reversing
so that the natural currents in time space that encompass the earth,
most of them are now moving backwards, where for thousands of years or maybe millions of years,
they were always moving forwards.
And of course, the humans just think in general that time is a measurement of something.
But what is it a measurement of? What is the actual nature of time?
I think there are transcendental answers to this question that are important and astonishing.
But the simplest answer is that time is relation.
And the organisms form incredibly multi-dimensional families and relationships
in the physical environment of earth, but also in the relational environment of earth.
Think with me for a moment of a trope that I commonly present, which is that
we take a planet and we put an organism on it. Now the planet has living time.
Now the planet becomes a living planet because of the organism.
The properties of the organism transfer to the planet and the properties of the
planet transfer to the organism. And we're presuming that we can keep this organism alive,
but we can look at it as if we didn't put it there, right? It just arose there because somehow
either life arose, it seems, either life arose on earth or it was put here
or it traveled here or some combination of these things.
And it certainly seems likely to me that there are intelligent beings
profoundly involved with all of this and some of them are certainly not ordinary beings
and not terrestrial beings. There could be intelligences that are only partly physical
and their primary component is non-physical. There could be intelligences that are fundamentally
a-physical and everything in between. But think with me for a moment that if we put
a living organism on a world, now there's a new mode of time that is alive on that world.
And if we then put a second organism, we have both the planet's temporality,
we have the temporality in each of the distinct organisms,
and then we have the relational temporality between them.
So that if there was a thing like a minute for our organism,
there are different modes of the minute. There's the planetary minute, the solar minute,
the organismal minute, and then the relational minute between the organisms. It turns out that time
is fundamentally bound to relation in some perspectives that are crucially important to
preserve and consider. So that if we have two organisms, the planet experiences two organismal
minutes plus, I have to put a little asterisk by that too, plus the relational time between them.
The other night I was in a conversation
and we were talking about the advent of agriculture some 10,000 years ago or so.
And it suddenly occurred to me that the amount of time between that and our time at the human scale
seems, it seems an incredible length of time to us 10,000 years and is in the way that we think and live.
But for the bacteria in our bodies, for the cells in our bodies,
that amount of time is trivial. They can experience 10,000 years of development and relation,
hyper structures of incredible, astonishing fields of relation in a second.
If we just took the bacterial population of earth and thought about,
I mean, we could limit it so that it's easier, we could just take the bacterial population in a single
animal. Think about 35 trillion bacteria. All of their relational behavior over a single second
and all of the links between them that are formed and dissolved and transformed,
we would find that any organism that we can look at is in three or four or seven ways much older
than our ideas of the age of the universe. So the organisms are doing something in time
that the humans have no concepts for. And maybe some indigenous peoples have these concepts and
there are certainly philosophers and mathematicians who are capable of thinking this way and have.
But we common people with our common language, we have a very confusedly flat, flattened and
crude, I think, clumsy idea about temporality in general and time in particular.
And it would behoove us to, we would benefit together if we could begin to think in more
complex and intelligent ways about temporality itself. So you can imagine that
if there were a change in the nature of local time space,
if a desynchronizing element arose,
all of life on earth would recoil in the resulting shockwaves as the
as the assets, the temporal assets upon which we've long depended, disappear, desynchronize,
begin flowing backwards, start flowing in circles, this kind of thing.
And this is to mostly leave aside the strange and dangerous human contributions.
I think if there were intelligent life in the universe, if they saw a young planet
with a representational sentient organism on that planet start making machines,
they would realize this is going to go very badly for life on that planet and probably for
the organisms doing the machine making because there's another feature here that we don't have
language about. What is the earth doing? We suppose various things, but none of them are
very sophisticated. Even if we think of the earth as a being, we don't have any language or concepts
about what is important to that being. What are the relationships that are important
to the earth? What is the earth up to? And I think it's very important for us to
concern ourselves with this perspective. The earth isn't merely a being.
The earth is something so astonishing that it produces beings and minds as a side effect of
its activity. But what is its activity? What is it that the earth is up to?
If we could make a filter that showed, that revealed to us the complex
synchronies and dimensionality of living time on earth, earth would be an organismal time flower
in time space. But as that flower became more and more robust, eventually for reasons that are
confusing, it generated a form that began to attack the basis of time by building machines.
We don't really have the idea of the opposite of life. Of course, we think of it as death.
But there are many opposites to living existence that essentially either...
You know, most of us have seen the confusing situation that ensues
when a car driving down a highway strikes an animal or a bird.
There's not really anything in nature that would do that. There's nothing in nature
that if you stop in front of it, it just runs you over. Now, I guess when I say nothing, there
are some exceptions. A herd of buffalo, because the momentum multiplied by the population
makes it impossible for the herd to just stop, a herd of buffalo might. But there's no single
organism that will just run you over if you stop and freeze in front of it. And so the animals on
earth are very confused by this situation primarily because none of their evolutionarily
developed senses help them much in a situation where a car traveling at 50 miles an hour comes
around a corner and is not going to slow down, even if it may attempt to miss the animal.
So I think there's something like the opposite of organisms and there's certainly something
like the opposite of living temporality. And that is machines. It's going to be some background
noise here for a moment. There's a giant machine interrupting time and inserting noise almost
on cue, almost on cue. And that noise makes it very difficult for the animals to communicate.
Most of the moderns believe that physical noise is a disturbing problem and is problematical.
And it certainly is. But we don't think very carefully about other forms of noise.
Patterns in our societies, our minds, our behavior that have a fundamentally deleterious effect
on our own experience, our awareness, our physical bodies.
It's popular these days to be pro-machine. And in my youth, I too was very pro-machine.
I thought machines were the most amazing things ever
and would lead to a utopian future where we had done away with war and most of disease and this kind of thing.
So some of my friends who work primarily with computers or who are car enthusiasts and so on,
they think machines are a good thing. But I assure you that organisms don't.
The machines establish something like the opposite of living temporality and then sustain it
and are continually creating disruptions in the symphonies of life that literally our own heartbeats depend upon.
So one can easily see here, imagine that forces and particles, molecules and atoms and photons
and electrons, imagine that they are either more than alive. They form a class of
a metaclass to life that life descends from their activity. Pretty obviously true. No sun,
no life, no minds, no philosophies, no concerns, no thinking, no religion, no math.
Everything on earth hitchhikes on the solar output and all organisms hitchhike on heat
gradients as well. And hot and cold change time. Cold slows time down. That's why we have refrigerators.
Heat speeds time up. That's why we have ovens.
So you can see that there's something fundamental going on here
in terms of organisms and relationship with electrons and photons and so on.
And it's fundamental. But imagine that the particles, all right, all of them,
are at least alive or more than merely alive or are the catalytic origin
of life, which it seems blatantly obvious. They must be similar to.
And in the model that I'm proposing, machines are torturing them.
They keep the particles in dead forms and the electrons running processes
that would be horrific because of their repetitiveness and the fact that they are dead inside.
So if we're torturing light by forcing it through mechanical
patterns that simply continue and repeat themselves, if we're torturing electrons
in machines, this creates something like the opposite of time in all the organisms,
the photons and electrons, even in the rocks and the oceans, the water, the sky,
they're all involved in the life symphony. But we can remove them from that symphony
and place them in something like a prison. And that prison is the machines.
It's weird. It's as if the humans have become infected with something that damages time.
And so if we could look at the earth with a filter that showed to us the incredible
symphonies of relational temporality in the organisms, we would see that in time space,
earth is like a time flower with millions of different kinds of petals that open and close
a time flower shining in the vast expanse of time space. And this is one way of
understanding that the earth is doing something, something incredibly important,
something heroic, something divine, something beautiful, something sacred. The earth is being
someone. And the humans are doing their very best to tear that down, to wreck
the harmonies of life on earth for the sake of objects, machines, dead things.
And certainly some of my listeners might say something resembling,
yes, but Darren, you're using a machine right now to record your thoughts
and to transmit them to other people. It's not untrue. Of course, it's true.
But the reason that I have to do this is isolation.
I don't need machines to talk to humans until I'm so isolated that there's no chance to reach
any group of humans.
And so one, I think an intelligent species would look at earth and see the advent of industrialization
and machine making and commodification of the environment and so on as a deadly disease.
And that disease is probably damaging the field of time space locally in dramatic ways.
We think of the earth as all alone because we haven't discovered life on nearby planets.
And we think that the distance between living worlds should reasonably mean that there's no
communication between them. However, I would like to suggest that distance is deceptive,
even in human relationships that we can experience. Distance is never explicit.
And certain kinds of distance create forms of intimacy that are unexpected when we look at
them with the models that we're trained to apply.
So I would like to suggest that not only is the earth being someone
and doing something heroic and important and beautiful and profound,
and all of life is fundamentally committed to this mission, except the humans and their machines.
But I would like to suggest that earth is part of a vast family of worlds and that
there is communication between them at all times. They all come from the same origin.
Everything in the universe, in a sense, can be understood as the expression
of some kind of staggering transcendental singularity. And I don't mean that term
in the computational technological sense. I mean it more in the sense of physics
and perhaps some features of religion.
And so I think the news of earth's great travail under the machine burden
and the activity burden of the humans, the news of that travail has reached far and wide.
And it may be that some of the phenomena we refer to as UFOs
are very concerned about what the humans are doing.
Because time space, the fabric of time space, is being changed here locally
by the sudden intrusion of machines. Now one of the fascinating features of life is that
there are models we can use to look at it where life is overcoming entropy.
Life can be understood as negentropic. And we can divide the context
complexly enough in our thinking that we could imagine that it's only temporarily negentropic.
It's locally negentropic in a universe that's traveling toward entropy.
And this concept is
involved in the theory of the heat death of the universe where all of the temperature
gradients in the universe stabilize over time
toward a state of essentially just entropic non-existence.
But the organisms are doing something crazy there.
They're using the local features of time space to do the opposite of entropy
in some senses. And this may be incredibly important. The problem with machines is that
machines import entropy into the biosphere. They generate death literally. It's fairly obvious that
in order to sustain billions and billions of photographs, all over the world,
beings and ecologies have to perish. We are stealing from the history and future of life on
earth to make machines. And the machines are in many cases an attempt to traverse time without
participation. If you doubt this, just think about the difference between walking somewhere
or riding a horse somewhere and riding a motorcycle or a car. We're skipping time.
We're skipping relationships.
And when enough relationships are skipped, that starts to impact in a very negative way
the intimate symbiotic symphonies of life upon which our own minds and capacity to have awareness
and understanding and so on depend fundamentally. So the machines are tearing at the fabric of
time space and the humans are completely oblivious to this as a species. There's nobody's discussing
this. They might discuss the damage to the biosphere, but they're not even thinking that
something fundamental might be being destroyed by the staggering propagation of objects and machines
on earth. I understand that my little explorations here have a very grim
perspective and certainly portend dangerous situations in the near term future.
It's not to say there isn't hope, but I think that life on earth and the humans
are about to experience a vast array of novel threats and challenges and devastations.
You know, I often hear people, some people, completely dismiss the concerns
with trivially considered statements like, oh, well, life will survive. Life will keep going.
You know, if the humans get wiped out, no big deal. That's a really callous and mechanistic
perspective. That's a perspective where people aren't thinking at all. They're not considering
the mission of life on earth and they're not considering our ancestors. They're not considering
what the hopes and dreams and struggles of life are for and they are for something that
isn't merely meaningful. Without it, there's no possibility of meaning. It may be true that the
earth is robust enough biologically to survive whatever the humans can throw at it. However,
planets have lifespans, primarily because stars have lifespans. And there are phases,
just like we have life phases, stars and planets and ecologies have life phases.
And so it's important to understand that there might only be in solar time, right? Time as the
sun experiences it, a specific window in which a world like ours can develop or sustain life.
And that beyond that window, if the biosphere is damaged severely enough, it will not recover.
There are also much more dire possibilities that we face now because we've reached a stage of
technological development where it's not merely plausible that a small group of humans or possibly
even a single human could level a threat to life on earth. It's feasible.
Some of the technologies that we presently possess not merely nuclear technologies
in the hands of wildly disoriented human societies and minds and nations
could put the final stamp on the entire history of life on earth.
Biospheres are delicate and there's ways to
option that delicacy to pose threats. And one of the more grim and terrifying problems here is that
very rarely when humans discover the possibility of a weapon, it's quite rare that they resist the
urge to build it. Crossing the street for a moment here. There are many machines.
When I walk in nature and pay attention to the living places and living beings, there's a field
effect. You can almost sense the harmony and the symbiosis and the mutual support and concern.
And it's very powerful, but it's also very delicate. It's easily disrupted.
Just bring a guy in there with a shotgun
and you've got enough trouble to shake up the whole field.
The earth also faces threats that aren't human. There are, you know, ages
of the earth where life has been very difficult for organisms or where they've been mostly exterminated
by a comet strike or a meteor strike, asteroid strike.
And part of the heroism of life on earth is the legacy of the survivors to the forms that arose
thereafter, embodying and enacting the intelligence and the spirit of not just of life on earth,
but of the survivors across all of time. And again, I think it's very important to
imagine that earth is a participant in a network of worlds and minds and intelligences,
and that her well-being is crucially important
in the network that she participates in. It's also interesting to think about the possibility that
humans, through their behavior, could set themselves at odds with the priorities and
urgencies and imperatives of life in time, life itself in all of time space, and that by doing so
could attract lots of different kinds of threats that we have mostly either ignored, avoided,
or exacerbated. And there's a similar possibility, which is that either the humans in general,
or at least a small group of them, and here lies hope, could awaken to the actual situation, or
a vision of the situation that's much closer to reality than the ones in which we find ourselves
imprisoned, and could then participate consciously in something so astonishing that even our religions
pale in the face of it. Maybe we were born to fulfill roles that have been lost to us in our
modernity, but are fundamental to our hearts, our souls, our interiority, our nature as organisms.
And I can imagine the situation where a small group of people could begin to recover those roles
heroically together, and to establish societies that actually resemble something
with the potential to act intelligently with kindness and awareness and generosity toward all beings.
And this is a promise we've heard echoed in all kinds of
different human contexts throughout history, but it's something
as it's as if there are the seeds of this in our heart, and they are aching for the water
they need to sprout and be expressed in every human heart, the world over.
There is a heroic path for us, even in a time of terrifying devastation and confusion. In fact,
in times like this, acts of communal awareness, support, reassurance, healing, nurturing, comforting
are vastly more important now than they've ever been before.
One of the most powerful things to do in a time where everything's breaking apart and the humans
are fragmenting into factions is to knit them back together under the ages of a purpose
so beautiful and profound that nobody wants to be left out.
And that's an achievable possibility for our species. That's a real direction that we can travel in.
It's one that I deeply believe in, and it's part of what gives me passion and keeps me questing.
One of the little tropes that I came up with recently was, and I probably mentioned it in
another video because it's very exciting to me, it's just a way of thinking,
but it's a way of thinking that resembles how our ancestors naturally thought.
I think it was common for them to understand that what they saw around them in physical
reality was an expression of higher order beings and processes, situations, so that they might
think something like, or at least a modern, who had opened the doors of perception in their mind,
might think,
as bees are to flowers and honey, something is to living worlds and X. In other words,
if there were organisms that traveled and collected the evolutionary intelligence of
living worlds and produced from it some astonishing profound extract,
yes, resembling honey, that could reignite life processes on dead worlds or heel worlds that
were dying, there's probably something like this going on in time space. In other words,
because there are bees, flowers, and honey on earth, in the sky there must be the meta-position
that produces those forms and relationships down here in the structured physicality of our living
planet. And this again brings us back to the possible topic of aliens and UFOs.
And what they might be up to. It would be interesting to discover that
they were communicating with the intelligences of the biosphere
in a field effect kind of way when they come near the earth or visit the earth.
But they might be avoiding the humans mostly for a very specific reason. If the humans get a hold
of anything resembling the technologies or abilities of the visitors, they will tear time
space apart. They will rip the planet to shreds. There's lots of historical
vignettes about this, right? In Genesis when the humans
are said to eat of the tree of knowledge, immediately the divine beings lock the tree of life against
them. As if to demonstrate that the awareness that in a very short period of time in terms of the sun
and a very long period of time in terms of human generations,
the humans must be prohibited from acquiring the fundamental keys to nature.
Because having eaten of the tree of life,
they will now become the primary threat by trying to operationalize those keys.
There's a lot of machines nearby at the moment. The children are leaving school.
I had to pause to cross the street.
And it was difficult to cross safely. There are so many machines here.
So there are many stories that highlight this problem with our species, a problem of hubris,
a problem of we will attack our own origin directly.
And we will not stop doing so. We become an unstoppable force on moss.
Even though there are individual humans or small groups that are relatively altruistic or benevolent
and would have the intelligence to know what not to do with technology, the species as a whole has
nothing. There's nothing there. There's nothing to stop us from making any machine we can dream up.
Without an understanding of the context, we don't know what space time is. We don't know
anything useful about what the earth is up to. What is her role? What is she doing? Who is she being?
What is the import of life on earth? And I would suggest that it's something so
astonishingly profound and beautiful that if we caught the slightest glimpse of it,
it would destroy all of the representations that we've made.
And we would maybe stop making machines.
But that seems an unlikely outcome, at least at present.
There are stories that
suppose that there used to be a universal language and that in a certain time in history,
the humans were literally attacking heaven, trying to tear the angels down, kill them,
and something intervened and shattered the universal language so that all the peoples could not
form the terrifying problem of mass behavior at the species level, particularly to attack origin.
It's blatantly obvious that the humans do this, by tearing down the rainforests and poisoning
the oceans, tearing apart the webs of life to produce commodities. We think, oh, all of this is
being done to feed the humans. It's not. It's mostly being done to feed machines. The earth has
enough food for all of the humans. What it probably can't sustain is billions of machines
and objects and artifacts and photographs and videos and all of these things.
But there is a heroic path for us as individuals and as small groups. And it's possible that we
could foment a moment of insight so profound that we could awaken the entire species. I hope for
something like this and perhaps there is help for those of us engaged in this quest. Help in the
vast network of lives and intelligences that form the fabric of time space.
I realize my thoughts are not particularly Christmassy today. Perhaps I will make another video
about the history of that holiday and what some of those representations come from.
We will see if I get the chance to do so. Thank you for joining me. I'm grateful for the time we
have to learn and remember together some of the more profound and beautiful aspects of our nature
and potential as human beings. Bye-bye for now.
