Hey everybody. Thank you for joining me. May we learn and grow together.
There are millions of human experiences right now that are in agony.
Having just been injured, or had a heart attack, or being subject to terrifying illness,
irresolvable injury, pain, confusion, fear, hope.
Siren reminds me of this, and it's a singular and very overwhelming sound.
It affects me physically when I hear it, not because I imagine images.
In fact, there's no way to explain.
It's surprising the degree to which we are inclined to trust explanations, or authorize them as worthy of guiding our perspectives.
I've just been listening to Jordan Peterson and Slavo Gizek, whose name is difficult to pronounce, speaking on Marxism, something I personally have never been particularly attracted to.
Though it is a common thread running through many of the branches of the tree of artists and musicians and poets and writers and actors and performers,
to some subset of which I identify with as my people, those with whom I feel perhaps most at home, though there are other ways I could describe my people.
And my people, you know, there's a hierarchy in a sense.
It's not the same thing as a decision tree, and an explanation will absolutely fail to encompass it, yet I can have a go at describing something.
First, in priority, in primacy, is my felt sense that is profoundly deep, and I hesitate, it's so deep, I hesitate to move my mouth about it and make words about it.
I hesitate out of reverence, out of wonder, out of awe, and I hesitate because when we hand these fundamental essential aspects of our humanity, when we hand them over to language and description and models,
I'm reminded of putting a fish in the desert or a bird at the bottom of the sea.
My soul cannot flow into a skeleton.
Surprisingly, it appears to have the innate capacity to flow partly, if not completely, into other living beings.
But there is no language or description or knowledge that will ever come near to expressing or encompassing this, this much I feel confident of.
But in primacy, having precedence over all other things, fundamentally, not in a logical fashion, in logic and thought and threat detection and response and opportunism and all of these things, all of this gets muddled up.
But what has primacy is that all of the beings in all of time are not merely my people than they are.
I am their hands, I am their hearts, I am their minds, I am their breath, I am their blood, I am their bones.
I belong to them.
I am their embodiment locally, uniquely, personally.
So, you know, I do not have, I think first I just feel a sense of inexplicable affinity with all beings, all moments, all minds, all places, all circumstances.
And that probably sounds a little bit confused because it just says that I have an affinity with everything.
Nonetheless, I know I could speak poetically and be a little clearer.
And by the way, you'll probably notice me looking down a lot during this video because I'm searching for something I encountered the other day and couldn't identify.
It was a small insect, it was extremely fast, faster than any ordinary land insect.
So I'm watching in the hope of perhaps encountering it again because it's very uncommon that I encounter a new insect, new to me.
I'm also trying not to step on creatures as I walk because I realize that the privilege I have of walking, which I consider a privilege,
and I have been denied of it before, so I know what it's like to be without it, costs lives.
It's not reasonably possible that I can avoid every living thing under my footfalls, but I can be aware and have some concern
and realize that if living beings must give their lives so that I can merely walk, then perhaps a responsibility, perhaps I inherit from that fact an array of responsibilities.
I think so. I feel so. To do something noble, trustworthy, beautiful, honorable, in response.
There's a tree of peoples, and I feel different and unique affinities with each of them.
And there are classes of people, and what we might refer to as types, personalities, and intellects, and hearts, behaviors that I have more affinity with.
I tend to feel a strong affinity with my, what might be referred to as my ethnic progenitors, the peoples from whom my grandparents and great grandparents and my parents descend.
And these are Europeans, primarily. At least that's how we call them today.
And I feel a strong affinity, in general, with all the different, with the whole continuum of ages of human beings.
Each of the ages of the humans is like an unimaginably profuse flower of wonder and beauty.
Though, unfortunately for many of us, there's a lot of crystallization that happens in, as we leave young adulthood, there's a tendency, I think, as a result of the incredibly toxic contexts in which we're engaged,
to crystallize inside, to harden our hearts, to crystallize our opinions, to stop learning and start declaring, to tell, instead of to participate and ask and sense.
And that's unfortunate, but I can still feel affinity, even with such people, because I can see them with my heart, rather than my mind, alone.
And I can identify with them because I, myself, have experienced crystallization, even though I've been lucky or aspire enough to maintain some fluid awareness of potential and transformation,
and to leave the skin of yesterday's seemingly authoritative beliefs and ideas behind as I take the risk of molting, of passing through the phases of human life.
With grace, one hoax.
As I pursue the promise of something I might call the fulfillment of the incredible privilege of my human birth.
So I've been making friends with the Blue Jays today, by making little offerings.
And actually there's a couple of Blue Jays, and they seem to recognize me now.
And I'm gonna have to get some better offerings than these kind of old, somewhat stale sunflower seeds.
They're pretty darn fond of peanuts, but I imagine there's all kinds of things they might like.
And one of them didn't really want the sunflower seeds when I placed them on the asphalt, but was interested in them when I placed them in the dirt.
And when I noticed that that bird didn't want the ones on the asphalt, I began to, you know, think about it.
What's the problem? Can it sense? These are kind of stale. Is it just not like them?
But then I realized that it might be hard to pick up sunflower seeds from the hard asphalt.
Because it could hurt your beak. And it might make a lot of shock as you sort of pack to pick them up, which is the natural way of doing things.
There's a little mouse. Or maybe a vole.
I can make a little offering to the rodent people too.
I've always been astonished by the courage necessary to pursue life as a small animal.
The constant and incredible danger.
And I've often opined that if humans deeply understood courage, there wouldn't be lions on the shields of great warriors.
There would be mice. Sparrows.
It wouldn't be the eagle, right? It was the image of courage and power.
It would be the scarab, the dung beetle. Apparently one of the strongest animals on Earth.
Also famously a shit-disturber.
So in the tree of peoples, I have all kinds of affinities, but I can often find affinity with nearly anyone.
Unless of course the situation or context sucks the oxygen out of the room, producing a very strong threat.
Or something I'm inclined habitually to become reactive to, whether my reaction is one of attraction or revulsion.
But I generally feel among my own with artists.
It's a huge generalization, I mean.
And I've lived in such a small sort of circle and traveled so little in my life, nearly none.
But though I know there are creative paradises in places like Prague or France.
Other places in every, hopefully in nearly every nation, but in some places the spirit of creativity seems to have kind of set up shop.
And I feel a bit deprived, because I've only in my adult life had a few brief periods where, or occasions where I knew,
oh, these are my people, they recognize me, I recognize them.
We love each other immediately, we feel inspired and refreshed and rejuvenated by each other's playful and clever, you know.
Relation.
Now, when I'm here in nature, my gratitude to be able to be away from the constructs and structures and institutions,
even in this limited way where I am in a park in the middle of a city and can hear the traffic around me.
All of the living beings, they don't have to decide that I am their people,
but I have decided that they are my people, which in a way means I've eliminated sides altogether.
Here's my young.
One of my new Bluejake friends going to have to get some peanuts or other nuts and things to bring.
So when I'm here, I am inclined to mistrust my intellect because to inhabit it, I have to depart from the kind of active, nonverbal,
heartful sense of communion and revitalization that I feel here.
As if when I breathe in, all of the living beings enter my body to nourish and renew me.
And when I exhale, I let go of the constructs and the intellect and the culture and I embrace living time,
which is a network of beings, not a mechanical process.
And living time is different in every being, but they contribute to the superposition of that.
And it is in that superposition that I am so lucky to be able to participate as a human being.
And to be informed by and inform it.
And when I use these words I don't mean to contribute information so much as I mean to meaningly participate in mutual recognition and communion.
In remembrance, in reverence, in honor, in wonder, in novelty.
I found a place where the nymphs of grasshoppers are inclined to spend their youth and they stay in the same area as they grow.
So as I visit them, I can see their forms maturing from tiny little nymphs to larger and they're going through instars.
They're going through molts.
And I'll revisit that molting topic a little later if I remember.
I had the urge to suggest an experiment and it's not my intention to instruct anyone.
It's merely to suggest something.
That I hope those who decide to try it might find nourishing or refreshing.
Find some being.
It could be a bird or an ant.
And of course this experiment may be very familiar to some of my listeners.
But I'm fairly sure it will be unfamiliar to others.
A few in particular I can think of.
Find some living being in which you have interest.
A bee, a bird, a raccoon, a mouse, a tree.
And in the first experiment, I'll ask that you practice seeing through, meaning causing to become transparent.
All that you know about this being, representationally.
So I want you to throw away the fact, I will use a tree, to throw away the fact that you know it's a tree.
Pretend I don't know what that is.
I want you to throw away the fact that you know it's an organism and pretend you don't know what that is.
And the fact that it's a fir tree, or that it makes wood, or all of the things, just let all that stuff drop for a moment.
And that's the moment of sort of clearing out the cup of the heart.
Let all that knowledge just fall away, so that you can gaze in unencumbered wonder upon whatever it is you select.
It could be a little cactus, a flower.
But we'll continue with the tree for a moment.
And I want you to practice seeing the tree, not with your intellect, feeling into the tree, not with your thinking, with your heart.
Bring the living being into your heart.
See the living being through the sense of your emotional core.
Just allow your emotions to slowly emerge from their, you know, often nervously protected subterranean dwellings.
And become your senses. See the tree with your heart.
Imagine it inside your heart. Imagine your heart inside it.
Imagine you have just discovered your long lost best friend, who has always loved you and whom you have always loved.
But this love has been occluded by knowledge and convenience and tasks and constructs and ideas and agendas and so on.
Let all that stuff fall away.
And just bring the living being into your heart.
And see the living, learn to open the eyes of your heart toward the living being.
To know it with your core, not your mind.
And feel the beauty, the mystery, the awe and the wonder that were natural to most of us as children.
And if you practice this over time, your heart will learn that it is safe to come forth into your experience.
And become the shining star at the core of your experience.
That illuminates all things so gently and so beautifully that they become transcendent.
Not in language, but in experience.
And if you practice this, you will discover many astonishing things about living beings.
But perhaps, even if you already knew what I'm talking about, there's another little mouse.
You will find some that surprise you. Oh, there are little birds near the little mouse.
I think we might have been having a bird mouse party.
The loss of this was the loss of our participation in living places and in the transcendental union of all life.
And the retrieval of this, even the tiniest success, is astonishingly profound, rejuvenating, refreshing.
I think I had a second experiment in mind. Oh, yes, yes, of course.
So you could take things a bit further and establish a relationship with a living place, a stream, a tree, the creatures of a living place,
a mouse that comes each day at a certain time to a certain place, the raccoon family that passes through your yard at night,
a local skunk, the crow's ravens and magpies and blue jays, or even a praying mantis, a beehive.
Because these things we have, these beings we have words for,
will naturally extend your humanity, your awareness, your health, your capacity to understand your dreaming, your recovery.
And long ago, everyone, very long ago, all the humans they knew, they knew more than what I'm speaking about here, much more.
But perhaps over time they began to operationalize those relationships, and that was the beginning of tragedy.
And this is something I'm sort of generally against. What are you? You are a little flying creature.
Tiny, tiny little creature.
Size is deceptive as we learned when we compare the courage of the lion who can easily obliterate most threats and the mouse who must survive by awareness and caution.
And courage.
So for those of you who are not already familiar with what I'm suggesting, if you so desire,
establish relationships that are meaningful with living beings, to the tree you can bring water, or an offering of soil, or an offering of some herb that is precious to you,
or that you simply love the qualities of, or the scent of, something fragrant.
Tobacco was a common offering, apparently, to hear it told, among American indigenous, some American indigenous peoples.
But that has partly to do with how they learned of its existence and their relationship with that plant.
But what you may eventually discover is that the world is something very different from what the humans tend to think and enact.
It is the birthplace and lifeplace of billions of unique, anciently evolved intelligences.
And when I say ancient, there's a secret about time and nature that until you discover it, you really won't understand time at all.
But when I say ancient, what I mean is the organisms of the earth are far older than what the humans consider to be the flat age of the universe.
Here we have the reverse of the creation story problem, where some group of ideologues claim the earth is only 5,000 years old.
I'm telling you, it's countless trillions of years old because, well, due to the nature of the relationship between organisms and how they invent temporalities,
and then by connecting those distinct temporalities create superpositions in time.
And we can see this just by understanding that the flat age of the universe is 14.5 billion years, let's say.
Well, if each person is a unique temporal bubble, then with 7.5 billion people on earth,
we need only go around the sun three times to have had more diverse temporality at the human order than there is years, flat years in the history of the universe.
We would have 22.5 billion years, 22.5 billion life years of human experience in three orbits of the sun.
All figures are here approximate.
Now of course the humans contain trillions of cells, so it gets very sophisticated very quickly, but living time is unendingly, staggeringly shocking to encounter directly with consciousness
in even the slightest revelation of its qualities in nature.
And so as I walk around this garden with you, I am participating, we are participating in living time.
And it obliterates calendars and clocks.
It just totally abolishes them.
And our bodies begin to relate by being immersed in the flowing water of lifetime and the anciently evolved intelligences that were the companions of mankind as our species evolved.
So these experiments, these practices I suggest gently to those of you who wish to try them out or pursue them deeply.
I think you will find treasure if you follow this very fuzzy map, and not just once but every time you follow it.
Insects such as grasshoppers and praying mantises, they go through formal life phases and having their skeletons on the outside, so to speak.
In other words, they're not really skeletons, they're hard structure, they're crusts like our bones are, but they're not really skeletons, though we call them exoskeletons.
And I think they're primarily comprised of a substance referred to as chitin, which maybe has some properties in common with our fingernails.
It's not merely insects that go that mold.
Reptiles shed their skins and probably go through life phases, but those of the insects are particularly distinct.
And with each phase the insect gains new abilities and strength until the final phase, which represents the phase whose next molt.
His death, in which not merely the outer shell is thrown off, but physical manifestation itself is left behind.
And we humans, we have life phases, we refer to them, I think fairly crudely, and we're kind of not really aware of them, because there's only two or three really, and nobody's an expert at this.
And I think we have at a minimum seven, or nine.
And our molts as individuals are primarily internal, and it might even be for humans that we are complex enough that there are a set of different aspects of our humanity.
That each develop uniquely within us at rates that are both generally shared, but unique to each individual.
So for example, when I was little, I developed intellectually and emotionally, in the sense of being sensitive, if sensitivity is development, relatively quickly.
But my intellectual development is what really stood out.
Making some adjustments here.
So I learned to read very young, and I was relatively articulate at a young age.
But other children developed other aspects, they developed in other aspects more quickly than me.
I wasn't quick on the uptake, for example, in the kind of intelligence that allows one to manipulate others intentionally.
One might say I was naive in that sense, and in a couple of other senses.
My romantic developments were fraught with peril, and still remain, to some degree, highly idealized, and based on fairy tales and things, which is a little bit embarrassing to admit.
My point, though, is that we each develop different aspects of ourselves at different rates.
According to something we could understand as a generalized template, but some of us vary widely from the distinctions the template imposes and the timelines they impose.
And there are aspects of myself that now, at my present age, I am still discovering and developing.
So there's this sort of, what is it, like a, as if I contained different animals that molt and developed at different times within me.
And these animals together comprise my human being, if you'll admit the analogy.
But I think we undergo molting internally.
And while there are, you know, signs, right, I don't look like a three-year-old, I don't look like a 20-year-old anymore.
While our external bodies do change, we don't have a, we can't tell when we're molting the way the mantis knows that it will molt.
And so finds a place appropriate to this trial where it will become immobile for 24 to 48 hours and be completely incapable of detecting or defending itself from threats.
And should the temperature go wrong or it rain or some other undesirable circumstance obtain, the mantis will die in the molt.
The molt is in a way an encounter with death.
But if it succeeds, it emerges with a new body, with new abilities, new senses.
We humans are insensitive to our own molting, throwing off of old skins.
And sometimes we try to do it on purpose, either perhaps in response to, like a felt internal sense, oh, it is time, or in response to the idea that one can throw off one's old skin.
So to speak, one's old way of being, one's old no longer useful aspects of behavior and thought and allegiance, subjugation, dominance, submission.
So perhaps we are a creature that has some capacity to influence the time of our molting, but as individuals who experience life phases, there is a natural temporality to these processes that is ordinarily invisible to us.
We often speak.
I do not know if that was made by a bird or a human, but I think by a human.
It occurs to me that if I think of our species as one creature,
and I should mention that when I, it's just my custom to think about individual organisms and beings as both individuals
and the embodiment of all of their kind at every order, so that a bird is the embodiment of all birds, but also of the birds around here and also of the kind of bird it is and so on and so forth.
But I do not keep these things in consciousness.
I don't think about them.
It's just my custom to imagine relations in this way so that when I am kind to some creature, I imagine that its people learn of this, not because it tells its people, because it is its people.
When I am gentle, the living things learn that I am gentle, and perhaps they will be gentle with me too, though it's not a guarantee.
It's not an economic relationship.
It's a reverential one.
But if I think of our species as a single animal and the evolution of our species as a series of molts where we faced massive, sudden transformation and thus we're ourselves transformed.
The metaphor doesn't fit perfectly because, I mean, the analogy doesn't fit perfectly for lots of reasons, but one of the things that doesn't happen is that in, for example, grasshoppers or praying mantises who are trapped for a while in their shell and when they're vulnerable and then they break through and they have a new body.
It can go wrong.
They can emerge deformed.
Bad things can happen.
They can get eaten while they're trapped in the exoskeleton.
They will break through.
The temperature can be bad.
Humidity or other conditions can be bad.
They can be infected with something or parasitized.
Bad things can happen, but generally the molt pretty much either succeeds or it fails with some few exceptions and usually if it fails, they die.
But with whatever is happening with our species, we can emerge from a molt phase incredibly deformed and then just adapt our sort of identity as animals to the strange deformations that resulted from the last encounter with death and transformation that might have been our molt phase.
And this could explain in part why our species as a whole, generally, which is skeptical about generalizations, but hey, it doesn't mean I never use them, is biophobic.
I mean, the irony of that is unimaginable.
We who were one of the crowning achievements of organismal evolution on Earth, we to whom all the organisms contributed unimaginable gifts, we look back upon them with terror?
And the sense that we must put a stop to this burgeoning life force that is in fact the origin of our bodies and minds moment to moment?
It would be like if my hand decided that the rest of my body were extremely dangerous and undesirable because the hand wasn't controlling it, so it started attacking me in my sleep.
And this is the kind of insanity our advanced species is intimately prone to and has long been, though not forever and not everywhere.
There are other examples.
But there are no necessary examples of paradisical, you know, perfect humans.
As I, yeah, I'll not tell that dark story.
It's easy to idealize beings, human beings who we intend to use as an analogy to show that there's another way.
Without recognizing that those to whom we refer may have their own very complex and sometimes terrifying peculiarities.
And ways of enacting violence and scapegoating and blame shifting and prosecution and torture and rape that we find generally reprehensible or inexplicable.
But my point or the direction that I'm going in actually is just to notice that I think our species is about to undergo a molt event.
And because we have no models or traditions or knowledge or practices around this, most of us are either confused as fuck, terrified, or telling ourselves fairy stories, you know.
And there's two things that come to mind.
I'll continue with my talk, but I just don't want to lose them from the brilliant orations I heard from Jordan Peterson, who I don't claim intellectual filial association with, right?
But the guy's really brilliant.
Whether I agree with what he thinks and says is a completely different matter. I learn every time I hear him talk.
Someone was really shocked.
A friend of mine was very shocked when she asked me, you know, if you've heard of this guy, I was like, yeah, I think he's really brilliant.
And she thought I was having her on.
And I said, no, you know, brilliant doesn't mean you agree with another person's positions or arguments, or it means that you recognize that they're skillful.
And though Jordan, like all of us human beings, has moments where he demonstrates deep unskillfulness.
And I know I have, so I can relate with that too.
We shouldn't take those moments as indicative of, you know, the quality of his thought.
Anyway, in beginning, his critique of the Communist Manifesto, he said, he made first some, you know, academic and stylistic critiques.
And one of the things he said was, I think, something like, I never encountered a litany of wrong ideas as consistently wrong as I encountered in this book, which I thought was really funny.
But then he said something very startling and brilliant, which was, most ideas are wrong.
Wow. Who'd have thought that?
Most ideas are wrong.
And he said, you know, the goal isn't to find some idea, you know, build a castle there and start flying flags from the parapets.
The goal is to find some idea and throw everything you have against it.
Try to tear it down every way you possibly can, because otherwise you're liable, and this is my own language, to fall under the spell of the fact that you had an idea.
And I know that problem really intimately.
Nature doesn't have ideas, she has beings.
I trust it. It just seems implicitly truthful.
And transcendental, at the same time, they're not constructs, they're beings.
They have, like, persona and weird fucking transcendental qualities that don't fit in human language and humans have long forgot about and so on and so forth.
But I loved when he said that.
And I'm trying to remember and hopefully it will come to me something that Shizek said.
Because I had the pairing in my mind.
Let me see.
I can't find it now. Perhaps it will return to me.
Typical Ryan head scratching my head trying to remember.
So I think our species might be undergoing a molt, and that doesn't mean necessarily that we're going to advance, we may, and I think likely will emerge the survivors into chaos.
The chaos of the attempt to reform, to reform.
Something resembling society, but because our people are infected with constructs and institutions, which are like the projections of our fears and desires into the mirror of models and the intellect.
We're going to have to now compete not only against the disastrous forces that are certain to descend upon us from the living world in response to our catastrophic malfeasance and misbehavior.
It's the wrong word. Violation.
If you push really hard on a concrete wall, it doesn't have to push back.
But if you punch it, you break your hand.
And the humans have been obliterating that from which our own minds and bodies emerge, wantonly now, for a few hundred years assisted by modern technologies in such a way that it's like you're pushing into something that can absorb a lot of force.
But after absorbing a certain amount of that force, it hits you back with that force magnified a thousandfold from seven different directions, not one.
And that's the kind of pushing we've been doing, and that's the kind of reaction that seems incumbent upon not just our species, but all of life.
Because that's what we've been pushing against.
The hubris of our species is generated nemesis.
We've been fucking with the world until nemesis finally emerges from that rape to answer our incredible confusion.
But yeah, I think one way to think about what's happening is that we're facing a speciation event as human beings.
And it's going to be really confusing because time has changed, meaning has changed, value has changed.
And when I say changed, I mean they've become ambiguous.
They've gone from being relatively reliable, even though they were fictional, to being really unreliable.
And they're going to keep getting less reliable as more and more effects are stirred into this kind of soupy, bubbling moment of transformation, or epoch of transformation, if you will.
And I don't know the life phases of a species like ours because I am one.
And I've not seen what results from the molts, except that I am one of those results.
Our people in this time are one of the, you know, we are the children of a molte phase, of a ladder of molte phases throughout the evolution both of our bodies and our consciousness, the development of our consciousness.
So I have no idea what the next phase looks like.
It better not look like joining machines to human bodies.
It's an incredibly catastrophically misguided idea.
Though, I formulate and express that idea into a machine in my hand.
A machine that represents something like an intelligent companion.
And I'm going to branch off here for a moment because I've mostly finished my little molte analogy.
I think we had, when we came to birth, an intelligent companion that was invisible, and maybe an array of them.
And the fact that I have this thing in my hand, which you can imagine in the not too distant future, might no longer be in my hand, but might orbit me.
Or might like hang out with me and levitating with its little camera and, you know, ability to receive and transmit calls and so on and so forth.
I think we had a satellite, or better yet, we were the satellite intelligence of something incredibly profound and staggeringly intelligent and ancient,
but also beautifully friendly and altruistic and something that was a protector, not an intruder or interloper or surveiller.
So I think this technology that I'm holding in my hand is one of the representations of that companion.
Our cars are another, for some people, horses and camels, embodied an aspect of this relationship.
The aspect of it that was associated with the capacity to travel, not necessarily in physical space, but in relational space, into the heart of the tree, into the mind of the beehive, into the spirit of the sun.
And this may sound, I suppose it could sound all different kinds of ways depending on your approach to it.
Nonetheless, it is my experience that not merely our minds, but our souls, and the development of human consciousness,
the evolution of our minds, is directly related to the story that I am telling.
And I think, as our species evolved, one of the repercussions of the molt phases was that the age, the phase of our individual lives in which we departed relation with our companion,
became lower and lower and lower. And at first, as we got older, the intimacy with the companion became deeper and richer and more sophisticated.
But after a time, after a certain molt phase in human history, it began to retreat.
Still, some few people discovered it in their elderly age, but it became common for that relationship to disappear earlier and earlier in life.
And one of the reasons this was so is that the process of in-languaging and in-culturation, to which we subject our children, thinking it a great benefit or a gift,
actually it shunts the energy of that relationship into constructs and representational thought and language and ideas.
And so that relationship becomes occluded at a very early age, but I am certain that very young children, by and large, each one uniquely, is aware of this relationship.
They are aware of this relationship. And before they have language, they are wondering why it seems to be missing in the adults they are surrounded by,
or even worse, represented by some kind of bizarre story from a book about a very strange god.
I'm an angry god, a pissed off god.
So, you know, I'm not asking you to believe me, but if you find it useful entertain the ideas that I explore with you and see what you make of them for yourself.
But be careful about this last idea, because it's perhaps one of the most powerful ideas.
And remember, too, what Jordan said, most ideas are wrong. I like that.
I really feel unbalanced. It's so important to present something from Zizek, since I mentioned Peterson, but I lost the thread.
Yes, this companion thing, be careful with it.
I think our souls have a natural companion, but it would be very confusing and dangerous for a modern person who is not well disciplined and careful to reestablish that relationship.
It would overwhelm them.
The children are so flexible and sort of unformed that they can sustain relation with something shocking and transcendental that adults would flee in terror from.
Because that thing would threaten all the constructs that the adults, all the scaffolding, that the adults identify with and think of as themselves, children don't have the scaffolding, so it's not threatenable.
The little ones, the very little children.
Moulting internally is a crisis.
Usually, though sometimes it happens very smoothly and quickly, entering a new life phase, but this analog of molting at the level of our species, this is not going to go well.
To say we are unprepared would be the grossest kind of understatement.
Oh, I remember what it was Gizek said.
He said to those people who were kind of saying like, oh, you know, yeah, it's going to be difficult, but there's a light at the end of the tunnel.
He would say, yes, that's the light of the next train that's going to run us over.
He rejected optimism and I largely agree with him.
I think our species is about to get the kind of really severe.
We're going to experience incredibly severe repercussions of our longstanding, belligerent violation of the true and the sacred and the living world.
Not because the true and the sacred and the living world are angry or vengeful.
It's almost a mechanical result where if you just keep pushing, if you keep cutting the rope that you're hanging off on the mountainside by, at some point it breaks and you can yell at your hand or the knife or the rope or the mountain, pretend you were innocent, whatever you want.
But that rope is the history and future of life on earth and our people have been hacking away at that thing.
Full force 24-7 with everything they can throw at it for at least the past 300 years, if not longer.
And for the past 100 years, we've just been obliterating it.
So that thing's going to break and it's not nature being mean.
There's nothing vengeful.
It's more like physics, right?
You definitely don't want to be hacking on the umbilical cord that connects you to nature through which you receive the possibility of having a mind moment to moment.
Or of eating food or surviving the sun.
The sun will kill you.
If the earth doesn't buffer that stuff, you're just going to die.
The moon protects us from impacts.
The atmosphere protects us from the fierceness of the sun.
And if you start trying to mechanize that protection, it would be like an act of unimaginable...
It's the same kind of hubristic, stupid ignorance that gets us slaughtered en masse.
What would be an analogy for the stupidity of that?
It would be like pretending...
Okay, it would be like taking a guy with heart disease and putting a clock, replacing his dying heart with a clock.
It would be that stupid.
Trying to geo-engineer a response to global transformation of climate, which I think is...
...multiply determined, right?
There's one cause.
Humans have a huge role to play in it.
But there's also seasons of the relationship between the sun and the earth.
There's transformations that happen to the earth.
There's transformations that happen in the sun.
There's transformations that happen in other planets.
The whole thing's a system. It all affects each other.
But down here on earth, humans have been busily obliterating the buffer...
...that can protect us during times of sudden, unexpected transformation...
...and pretending to be innocent.
Or even they know the right thing to do.
That's gonna make for a really challenging molt phase, to put it mildly.
Prepare for chaos.
Prepare for apocalypse.
Because that looks like what's on the menu.
And the menu's only got a couple things on it, as far as I can tell.
I don't personally...
...I have no idea whether there's some reasonable chance of me surviving much longer...
...or what will take me out.
I've lived many of the life phases of my humanity already.
And I've lived longer, perhaps, than many humans in history.
I've had that privilege.
And misspent it, in many ways.
But now I feel better, because I balance the equation between Pearson and Zizek.
And now, having dwelt in the kingdom of my intellect, I'll return to my heart.
And enjoy the setting of the sun.
Thank you for being human.
For being interested.
And for walking with me while I get my body's exercise and also perhaps my mind.
And with a little luck, my heart's too.
Bye-bye for now.
