Hello everybody. Welcome. I'm grateful to all of those who take the time to listen to my podcasts or recordings, and someday I hope to make more videos.
In fact, one of my dreams is to have a whiteboard or a blackboard and be able to draw things while I'm talking about some of them. It helps a lot, actually.
The difference between seeing something with diagrams and only hearing the words can be really dramatic.
But right now it's late in the night or early in the morning, and I'm walking in the pre-dawn darkness in a suburban neighborhood.
And the topic that's on my mind is so profound that I'm not sure if I'm brave enough to approach it.
And even if I am, I'm not sure how to approach it at all.
I had the thought earlier that if we are wise, we live our lives in a way that recognizes that this might be the last time.
This might be our only chance to speak or act or learn or grow, to love, to dare, to hope, to make, create, to change the world.
Even if that change is only very small or very local.
It's my sense that we come to human birth with deep and profound urgencies. Each one of us uniquely and yet, if you took five of us, they'd resemble each other a lot and still be unique.
But our childhood and young adulthood and all the phases of our life, we're seeking.
Unfortunately, there's a variety of trenchant ironies to being human. And some few of us escape them.
But many of us will spend our lives engaged in behaviors that mostly don't make sense at all and impair or bury those original urgencies we came to human life with.
And I've got to tell you, if I trust anything, it's those things. The problem is, though there are charismatic forms of them, they tend to be very shy.
And throughout our lives, each of us is negotiating this incredible, mythic experience of being human. And sometimes it looks so mundane and confusing and broken that we might wonder what we're doing here or why we were born.
Or what happened to us that we became so surrounded, encompassed by, well, propaganda mainly, advertising, politics and news and the bank and the rent and the mortgage.
The insurance. The doctor. Hospitals. The debt. The degree. The loan. The addiction.
The severe and constantly encroaching wall of threats and distractions. Forces. Powers.
And the old powers are still there. We just don't. Many of us most of the time don't. We can't sense them. I can't find them.
Or language and ideas have such a grip on our minds that we dismiss them. We don't believe them. We don't believe in them.
And it's reasonable to reject the strange and often terrifying cartoons on offer in the media and popular culture and popular religion.
And you know, there are a few of us who managed to ride on the edge of the membrane of these things so that we're not trapped by them.
And maybe even can make use of them. In all of the religions and the wisdom traditions, in the indigenous knowledge, when it's beheld in a truthful and sensitive way,
all of these things that are easily co-opted and compromised and turned into a kind of poison, in all of them there's something exquisite and truly virtuous, alive.
Real.
There's something actually holy to be discovered in our lives.
And whether or not I succeed at practicing them, the virtues are profound. If you want anything to help you navigate in life, any path toward virtue is something I deeply trust.
And some of the virtues are used against us. In fact, most of what we're enslaved by is sort of fake virtues.
But I mean the heartfelt commitment to being true to the urgencies of our origin.
It's not a matter of being perfect, but rather of just making a little bit of progress, holding the line against the shadows of modernity.
I don't mean to sound melodramatic, but in all seriousness people.
These cars and roads and machines and LED street lamps and Wi-Fi radiation and smart phones that make us dumber every time we touch them and computers and the numerization of our lives.
It's hard to see a whole bunch of virtue in that, but easy to see a little.
I was thinking, you know, what would I say if this were the last time I spoke? And it's really a frightening thought.
But even if I can't accomplish it in the way I would hope, I can have a sincere go at it. And that's what I'm doing here right now.
I should talk back to earlier versions of myself or even to the self I am today.
The things that I might say won't make common sense in English language unless I sang them.
But the virtues are deep and profound and they're woven into our souls.
What are they? Well, they certainly aren't any words I can make.
But we can list the verbs, the action words,
honesty, integrity, awareness, sensitivity, open-mindedness, loyalty,
and rightly context, contexted, wonder, awe, hope, faith, chastity, moderation,
to incline ourselves away from the low-hanging fruit along our life paths.
We probably have more than one even in a single lifetime.
Patience, compassion, empathy.
And all of these branches, they're like petals on the single flower of the memory of our nature as human beings.
The memory of our origin before we were born.
And it's okay if you think there wasn't something that would become you before you were born.
But it's pretty damn useful to imagine that there might have been, whether there was or not.
Love, passion and service to virtue, integrity and service to virtue.
The ability to turn aside even when beleaguered from the grip of the shadows in our modernity and lives and cultures and situations.
And to form, to remember what heroism feels like and requires of us and asks of us even in our most mundane situations.
Not because we are heroes, but all those representations of them are reflections of something we all carry within us.
Those urgencies that comprise the memory, not just of our own personal origin, but of the origin of all beings.
And somehow it's as if writing, not in a book, but in some kind of exotic, exquisite living tapestry with every moment of our life.
And the children, and the children in us, they are much closer to this.
It's hard for them to lie about it and they wonder why everyone else is playing those ridiculous games.
And someday we as adults must have better games to teach them, to live with them, to guide them and ourselves.
Now I can't tell if I'm doing a very good job.
And I have the same feeling about being human. I'm not entirely sure I'm doing a good job of it.
But everything within me wants...
Wow.
There's really no reasonable way to say it is there.
You know, the salmon are animals and they get pretty serious around mating time.
And some of them get so serious that they return from the ocean to the flow of the stream where they were eggs.
And it seems they're trying to get as close to their actual place of origin as possible before laying their eggs.
And frankly I think that's an embodiment of a universal principle.
But it's really hard for ordinary humans to see it that way.
With a little help we can begin to imagine it.
There's a direction in our hearts and behavior.
A number of directions actually.
Towards something we might call truth.
The idea that this is even possible is terrifying because it makes it clear that we can err.
We can turn away from it.
And religion often weaponizes this particular intersection of feelings.
We're very vulnerable here as humans.
And each one of us differently and uniquely.
But if you think about origin carefully and you realize that all of the humans and all of the organisms come from one thing.
Sure enough they come from one star here.
And certainly they live on one world, this one.
So even if there's no metaphysical unity of origin, there's a physical unity of origin that's a fact.
It's objective truth.
Even if you don't want to think about souls and families and the lineages and trees of ancestors.
And all of the beings who fed them and so on.
But life comes from somewhere. It doesn't come from nowhere.
And what's beyond the boundaries of our birth and our death.
I'm not claiming we should spend great deals of time considering it.
But if it's accessible we might want to contact that directly.
Each of us in our own way.
Sincerely authentically.
And it's as if each moment of our life.
The urgencies of our origin and the urgencies of our eventual passage out of human form, our death.
They are flowing into us in every moment.
And sometimes we hear them very clearly.
But most often it's when they say no.
They're not necessarily there telling us what to do or who to be.
But in some cases where we get to the boundary of a situation in which we're in very grave danger.
Of harming our deepest selves.
Then we may hear their voice and say simply no.
Don't do that.
Not go there.
You may blur the terrain of virtue and sin if you will.
But don't do that.
Don't kill the being.
Don't wreck your heart forever.
So some of these voices are cautionary and they're still.
They tend to be shy.
And often they'll only speak up once or twice sort of depending on how often they're listened to.
And then go silent.
They're not loud like the noise of everything else.
And in some of us they're right with us every moment.
Some people just listen very carefully for this in a manner of speaking.
They listen to their heart.
But in all of us it's a matter of degree and of moment.
What's the situation? What's the history?
How many degrees of liberty have fallen away from us or been taken?
Died in the battle of thus and such.
We're all capable of walking in the direction of virtue but in our confusion, despair, fear, anger, frustration.
Sometimes we walk in the other direction.
Sometimes we stumble around in the darkness of our own habits and patterns, history.
These were carrying the pain.
And that's part of being human too.
But we must encourage each other to hold the line.
And in a way this is one of the unfulfilled promises of religion.
If we had something resembling...
The problem is once you start calling it something, all bets are off.
But if we had the ability to contact origin together in a way that we all trusted
and wasn't mostly just a big representational display...
I mean look, when humans come together, even in two of us or three of us, or in any kind of group,
and the intention is authentically to contact origin somehow, not together,
but to remember it and become it, to recollect, to experience an amnesis,
the unforgetting of our origins.
In any situation where even a little bit of that's going on,
there's something true and deep and ancient resonating there.
I remember...
I mean I remember the origins of my Christian experience in my life.
And it was a deep experience and there's many, many aspects of it that I trust still.
I remember going to some Pentecostal churches and evangelical churches
and just being really confused about what the hell was going on there.
But as a person who's trying to understand if there's a divine world and what it might mean,
you have to walk the path yourself.
And you may start out with vehicles that are on common offer
and perhaps even these will be useful or profound or somehow actually introduce you directly
to the world of origin and those who dwell there.
But I think it's easier if you have a general idea rather than a specific one,
where things tend to go better at least because the specific ones are easily made into representations.
And that's not what you're after.
I mean the ironic thing is we're born carrying the keys to the memory of the before of our incarnation.
Each one of us, we were born with these.
And we ache secretly all of us in some deep chamber of our being or many of them
for the opening of these memories and the embodiment of them
and enacting them especially together for the sake of all beings
but for the sake of some kind of fundamental transition.
You know, if I have an exchange that's human with someone at the store or whatever, gas station,
there's a direction in that where we both came into agreement that the between of us
there'd be virtue in there, there'd be humanity in there and love and respect and concern and action.
The sun is about to rise now.
And yesterday was the specific new moon.
Time.
So many of the what we might call the primitives that our cultures and our languages impress upon our thought are wrong.
They're not true.
They may be forceful or articulate or episodic or sophisticated.
They're not true.
Sometimes I hear in a film or read in a book something so profound that it rings the bells in my heart of that which I trust
and believe and know as true.
Not true in the simple sense of yes, no, black, white, you know, but true in the original sense.
Reminiscent of the urgencies of our origin.
I guess if I were asked to define truth, I might give a similar answer to that.
Depend on who was asking and where, how we got there.
It's funny when I'm walking.
There's a rhythm there and it's different depending on where I'm walking.
And my mind hitchhikes on that rhythm.
There's all of life hitchhikes on timing and synchronization.
Our bodies, our minds, they synchronize and desynchronize.
And when they're in synchronization, everything goes really, really beautifully.
It's like the best kind of dancing.
But us moderns, we experience many zeitstores.
I can never get these two words right.
Desynchronizing influences.
Television, the internet, our smartphones, strange lights, the LEDs, computers, the televisions and so on.
LEDs in the automobiles.
These lights have the wrong rhythm.
It's 2023 right now.
The distant and estranged future of most of my young life.
I spent a great deal of time reading and thinking along with science fiction authors in my youth.
Read a few thousand stories.
And they were brilliant teachers but it's tragic to see how so many of the worst features in the low-hanging fruit of technology have triumphed.
And are most of what's on the table.
And that stuff is so dangerous because there's nobody at the car of the species.
There's nobody driving that vehicle.
It's an empty mass of mostly lethal processes.
When I think of the world, I don't try to carry the burden of it on my back.
I mean that would be melodramatic anyway.
But I do try to understand the nature of the processes that produce this mass.
And not because I'm angry or frustrated, because I'm curious.
The urgencies in my own birth have something to do with the virtue of understanding, at least consciously understanding.
And maybe to my chagrin intellectually understanding.
And being capable of articulating some of those understandings, at least to myself sometimes.
The strange thing is where it most matters are principles and our values, where they most matter is in relationships.
And the closer to home those relationships are, the more they matter.
And there can be more than one home.
But there's almost always a central one that we think of, ah, this is my home.
We may not have even lived there, or lived there very long.
But there's another home.
There's a home beyond the sky.
There's a place we all come from.
All the beings, all of them.
The trees and the insects and the animals and the fishes.
The birds and the bears and the badgers.
The bats, the hummingbirds.
The lions, the hippopotamia, whales and dolphins and cuttlefish and squid.
Pragmatuses and spiders.
All these beings come from one home.
And if we could just flip our minds upside down, we'd immediately understand
that community and communion is the true nature of being.
We don't have to be religious about it, though we might be very passionate if we actually feel it again together and remember it.
We don't have to get drunk on concepts, but we might get drunk on the nectar of our own being.
And if that's really what's going on, I trust it.
The sky is orange and gray in the east.
The sun is rising.
You know, I would say crazy things.
I really would.
If this were my last speech, I would say very crazy things.
But perhaps instead of crazy and passionate things, I can say simple things that I trust.
In the core of us.
There's a strange kind of magnetic compass.
It helps us navigate.
But it's easily overwhelmed by noise and habit.
You can see children following it. Dogs follow it.
There's good examples. Trees follow it, but they do it very slowly.
It instructs the growth of us.
We poor moderns have so few contexts in which its truest lights shine bright and authentic.
So we have to strive together to invent such contexts and discover them and remember them and become them together.
In every moment of our lives, perhaps more when we're confused and troubled and feel lost.
That's when it most matters.
When I make these recordings, I'm remembering the hope of such a context even if it seems nowhere in evidence.
In the little features of my daily life, I reach for it.
However clumsily or confusedly.
You know, until we come together under certain agreements,
the context starts out compromised by all kinds of things.
All kinds of ways.
But if we're careful and passionate and committed, then we can assemble a context even if only for a few moments
in which we try together to remember what it means to be human.
We try together to remember our origin, our true nature, to discover it, to enact it.
I'm not sure how serious all the games around here on Earth are, but they seem to me incredibly serious.
And maybe that's because I'm still stuck on this side of the veil of clear awareness.
But I certainly take them seriously.
And even if they're not serious, there's an immense field
waiting for the slightest movement toward it inside us, hoping for that movement.
Starving for that movement in the direction of home.
You know, most of us long for this home, but the only place it could ever be is here.
And it's really easy to say this and it's difficult to realize it, but this moment right now,
if we can't make this home.
And I can't always, but I try to remember.
The place where I'm at doesn't feel like home.
The other night when walking down the street in a subdivision in the San Joaquin Valley,
someone had put a box out in front of their house.
There was a sign said Ruby Red Grapefruit Free.
I thought, well, I'll take a couple of these home.
And I got to say, those were like no grapefruit I've ever tasted.
They were like candy.
You could just gloriously chew your way through one of these things.
And it was an ecstatic experience.
I was so surprised I never expected it was even possible that grapefruits could be that good.
But alas, I don't see the box out tonight.
Probably be a long time before I have a grapefruit like that again.
You know, we all have a library of problems.
And for most of us, that burden is really heavy.
It's not trivial.
It's not to be dismissed.
But I think we're kind of trained to collect and worry over them.
There might be something better we could be doing with our attention,
even if our goal was to actually solve those problems.
Because somehow just dragging them along like a 15 car train
doesn't actually seem to make, you know,
it doesn't have a lot of effect.
I'm hearing a bird I've never heard before.
I wonder if it's a flicker.
It's a flicker.
It's a flicker.
It's a flicker.
It's a flicker.
I'm listening.
It's a raptor.
Some kind of small hawk.
There's two of them calling to each other.
One's far away.
It's easy to feel tangled up in our habits and the money and the problems.
But every moment is away beyond them.
And this is the attraction.
This is what gets weaponized by religion is this way beyond them.
Beyond our problems.
But the actual nature of who we are is completely beyond our problems.
However involving they may seem.
However gravidic they are.
And look sometimes we need help.
I need help to remember that or embody it.
We walk in that direction even for a moment.
But the direction is alive and true and accessible.
No matter how dire things may appear in our minds and hearts.
Some time ago I found a flicker feather.
And I've never seen a flicker.
I'm hoping I might see one here sometime.
I think there's deep truth to the idea that each of us have callings.
And I think the word is actually decent in this case in English.
Because there's something calling us.
Asking us to remember.
And we each have unique ways of enacting that remembrance.
And the world tries to shave and shape them to
the strange abuses that parade around as virtue and excellence perfection.
Immortality.
Attention.
But we all have callings.
And they're always alive in us even in the darkest time.
Even at the gate of death.
Think for a moment about yours.
Urgencies you came to birth with.
Pause and reflect on this with me for a moment.
Somewhere inside all of them is true virtue.
And it's alive.
Part of us.
Calling us.
Hold the line.
Take one step up that ladder.
Find four other ladders and climb them too.
Not for the sake of the world or what the humans value.
For the sake of what our souls value and remember are made of.
Oh wow, now the sky is really something.
There's blues and orange pinks.
One contrail.
Oh there's two.
Nearby airport.
But yeah, it looks like.
It looks like Origins painting with pastels in this feeling rather
passionate this morning.
My goodness.
And I could take a picture but it won't really help.
Maybe that's what I'll use for the graphic for this recording.
This world is all the worlds.
There's no need to travel anywhere.
All the worlds are here.
The humans run away from this.
They teach us to run away from it.
They don't introduce us to it.
All the worlds are here.
All the beings are here.
And there are many kinds of beings that neither our fictions nor religion
have revealed to us.
Not all beings are physical.
And some of them live in the communion of beings.
And these are the ones we have magical stories about.
We've suffered a catastrophic loss of wonder and imagination.
Jay, I love them.
We've been told to do away with superstition.
But we've thrown the soul out with a wrapping paper.
Yes, by all means, let's do away with superstition.
Well, not by all means.
By reasonable means.
But the nature of being is fundamentally beyond the idea of magic
or science or religion.
So far beyond that those ideas and all their concepts are trivial in the face of it.
And this is why we ache to remember.
We've come to the desert island of being as humans.
To remember.
Each other, our origin, virtue.
The wonder and awe and beauty of being.
The nature of nature.
The sun, the moon, the stars, the sky, time space.
We are all these things.
More so when we remember together.
And it's a grim forgetting we suffer.
My goodness.
What I'm here to remind you and myself.
That our lives and our nature is more amazing than all the stories.
In the brightness of that truth they would shrivel.
The birds are awakening.
A lot of raptors.
Each day we get a new life.
And no matter how stuck we are.
No matter how thick the water seems.
Even if time starts to spin and spiral or go backwards.
It's a new world each day.
It's a new world each moment.
If we can remember together and give ourselves reason to hope.
There are strange puzzles before me.
Very strange puzzles.
I'm walking by a lake where I learned to fish.
Fishing is a peculiar pastime.
Though I learned to love it as a child,
I don't think I can handle the hurting the fishes anymore.
But somehow I think our origin alive in us outside of time is fishing.
And our human lives are almost like bait.
But what are they hoping to catch our souls?
Some experience of beauty.
Of becoming it.
Remembering it.
And acting it and bodying it.
The universe is so magical that if you actually just reach out to it,
it reaches back immediately.
But a lot of the time I'm too busy thinking things.
Or worrying.
Or whatever I'm doing.
Some kind of nonsensical thing I'm doing most of the time.
Or three nonsensical things at once.
Or who knows what.
But here in the dawn for a moment, I remember.
And I can feel it again.
You know, sometimes it takes an invocation.
Sometimes you really have to take off your armor and go naked to the sky and the world.
Drop all the games.
And just be who you are.
The songs of the birds.
They're like living water.
So ancient and alive.
The light in the sky.
I'm hearing something I've never heard before.
Some kind of bird song.
I'm too curious to let it be.
It's hard to triangulate on.
I wonder if it's a whip or a person making that noise.
These days I have to wonder if it's a device.
I sure can't tell where its side it's coming from.
It's like a ho-ho-woo!
Ho-ho-woo-woo!
I'll find the chance.
I don't know if I'll be brave enough to post this, I guess we'll see in time.
It's gone from dark to light, and I'm almost back to the place where I sleep.
An early morning new moonwalk.
I'm grateful to you who travel with me in the hope of remembering together.
And being a light in the life of our minds and our hearts and our souls and the world.
I'm grateful to all of you.
I remember you.
I remember you.
